Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3431 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Kerala Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project)
between
INDIA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 4, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3431 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 2001, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by the State of 
Kerala (Kerala) and Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (KRWSA) (as 
hereinafter defined) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to Kerala part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
Kerala and  KRWSA (the Project Agreement).
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through October 6, 
1999, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 
11 of 
Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted 
on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, 
all such countries;” and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, 
if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary Group” means any of the villages or neighborhood groups 
within the Project Districts (as hereinafter defined), established under the 
Travancore-Cochin Literary, Scientific and Charitable Societies Registration Act, 
1955, or the Societies Registration Act, 1860, and operating according to its bylaws, 
and selected as a beneficiary of a Scheme (as hereinafter defined) under the Project;
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in Section 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“DPMU” means the Project Management Unit under KRWSA, established in each 
of the Project Districts;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4),  (6), and (7);
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“First Batch” means the Schemes planned for the first 5 Gram Panchayats 
(as hereinafter defined) under the Project;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, Kerala and KRWSA, 
starting April 1, and ending March 31; 
(h)
“Gram Panchayats” means local government bodies at the village level 
within one of the Project Districts established and operating under the Kerala 
Panchayati Raj Act 1994;
(i)
“Kerala” means the Borrower’s State of Kerala, or any successor thereto;
(j)
“KRWSA” means Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency, a society 
established and registered on November 17, 1999, under the Travancore-Cochin Literary, 
Scientific and Charitable Societies Registration Act, 1955, as amended to date, and 
operating according to its Memorandum of Association dated November 17, 1999;
(k)
“Mission” means the Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission, a unit 
within the Department of Water Supply of the Ministry of Rural Development of the 
Borrower, dealing with the rural water supply and environmental sanitation sector in 
Page  3
India;
(l)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations established and operating in 
the territory of the Borrower;
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, Kerala and 
KRWSA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(n)
“Project Districts” means the districts of Palakkad, Malapuram, 
Kozhikode, and Thrissur of Kerala, and any successors thereto;
(o)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the implementation plan for the 
Project dated July 2000, including time-bound action plans, procedures and criteria 
agreed with the Association;
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each Project Management Report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement and Section 4.02 of the Project 
Agreement; 
(q)
“Scheme” or “Schemes” mean rural water supply and environmental 
sanitation facilities to be planned and implemented in the Project Gram Panchayats in 
accordance with the criteria referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, including associated capacity building measures for such a Scheme, and 
“Multi-Panchayats Schemes” means water supply schemes covering two or more Gram 
Panchayats; 
(r)
“Subsequent Batches” means the Schemes planned for the second, third, 
fourth and fifth batches, and consisting of about 18, 23, 28 and 15 Gram Panchayats, 
respectively, (including tribal panchayats), and the term “Batch” refers to any of 
those batches or the First Batch; and
(s)
“Support Organization” means any NGO or any other community based 
organization meeting the eligibility criteria referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement to be selected by KRWSA and the respective Gram Panchayat to 
develop a Scheme and to provide necessary support to the Gram Panchayats and 
Beneficiary Groups in planning and implementing Schemes.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 50,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
Page  4
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1, 2011 and ending October 1, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2020 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association, and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part D of the Project through the 
Mission with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and rural water 
Page  5
supply and environmental sanitation 
practices, and shall 
provide promptly as needed the 
funds, and services required for 
Part D of the 
Project; and 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of 
its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall cause Kerala and KWRSA to perform in 
accordance with the 
provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of 
Kerala and KRWSA 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be 
taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable Kerala and KRWSA to perform 
such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere 
with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to 
Kerala in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
(except Part D) shall be carried out by Kerala and KRWSA pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall not later than May 31, 2001, designate an 
officer not below the rank of Deputy Secretary of the Borrower as the officer 
responsible for implementation of Part D of the Project.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out Part D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than June 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out Part D of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out Part D of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association  shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound financial management and accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out such part of the 
Page  6
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and those for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of 
each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or Statements of 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures be retained until at least one year 
after the 
Association has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, Project Management Reports, in accordance 
with guidelines and format acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) 
sets forth actual sources and application of 
funds for Part D of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, 
and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the 
six-month period following the 
period covered 
by said report; and
 
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the 
six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) 
describes progress in Part D of Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and 
for 
the period covered by said report, and
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part D of 
the Project and expenditures under contracts financed 
out of 
Page  7
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of 
the period covered 
by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Kerala or KRWSA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Kerala or KRWSA will be able to perform its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(c) 
Any change shall have been made in the Memorandum of Association of KRWSA 
so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of KRWSA to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Kerala and KRWSA, and is legally binding upon 
Kerala and KRWSA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  8
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
For Parts A, B and C 
of the Project
(1)
Civil works
   30,660,000
70%
(2)
Goods
    1,150,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures (ex-
Page  9
factory cost) and 
80% of local 
expenditures for
other items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services  10,020,000    
100%
(including NGOs’ 
services),
training, workshops 
and study tours 
(4)
Incremental operating   1,680,000  
80% until March 31, 2003;
costs 
60% from April 1, 2003 
until March 31, 2005; and 
40% thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
    4,980,000  
For Part D of the Project
(6)
Goods
80,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
80% of local 
expenditures for
other items procured 
locally
(7)
Consultants’ services   1,530,000 
100%
(including NGOs’
services), training, 
workshops and study 
tours 
TOTAL
   50,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the costs of operation and 
maintenance of additional buildings, equipment and vehicles, office rental and 
expenses, hiring of vehicles, and salaries of additional staff, incurred for the 
purposes of carrying out the Project  after December 31, 1999. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,500,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after   
December 31, 1999. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawal from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (ii) services under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 for employment of 
individual consultants, respectively; (iii) training and workshops and study tours; 
and (iv) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and Section 4.02 
(b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on 
the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, 
accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement or Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditures.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
Page  11
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals are 
not made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
of $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount of $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or 
exceed SDR7,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals
are made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Page  12
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each applications for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said applications, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Kerala in improving the quality of 
rural water supply and environmental sanitation service delivery to achieve 
sustainability of investments through: (i) demonstrating viability of cost recovery 
and institutional reforms  by developing, testing and implementing the new 
decentralized service delivery model on a pilot basis; and (ii) building Kerala’s 
capacity in improved sector management in order to scale up the new decentralized 
service delivery model Statewide.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Institution Building
1.
Setting up and operation of KRWSA and the DPMUs, including strengthening their 
capacity for Project management, monitoring and evaluation, through provision of 
consultants’ and NGOs’ services, equipment and materials and incremental operating 
costs.
2.
Development and implementation of a sanitation and hygiene promotion strategic 
plan through provision of consultants’ and NGOs’ services, training, workshops, and 
carrying out of baseline surveys.
3.
Building capacity of state level administrators, policy makers, and staff of  
KRWSA/DPMUs, and Support Organizations through provision of consultants’ and NGOs’ 
services, training and  workshops.
4.
Strengthening of Gram Panchayats through provision of civil works, equipment, 
training and incremental operating costs.
Part B:
Community Development and Infrastructure Building
1.
Community Development: 
(a)
Provision of social, technical and management support to Beneficiary 
Groups through provision of consultants’ and Support Organizations’ services, 
training, and community awareness programs.
(b)
Mobilizing women and building their skills to participate in the Project 
through provision of consultants’ and Support Organizations’ services, training, 
equipment and micro-enterprise initiatives, including thrift and credit.
2.
Infrastructure Building
(a)
Support for preparing engineering designs, procurement and construction 
plans through provision of consultants’ and Support Organizations’ services.
Page  13
(b)
Construction, augmentation and/or rehabilitation of about 2,500 drinking 
water supply schemes, including about six Multi-Panchayats Schemes.
(c)
Construction of sullage/storm water drains, including safe disposal of 
waste water.
(d)
Construction of about 45,000 new latrines, and conversion of about 8,000 
existing unsafe latrines.
(e)
Carrying out of small scale environmental management initiatives, 
including composting and garbage pits, and desilting of existing ponds.
(f)
Promotion and implementation of associated groundwater recharge 
activities, including contour bunding, trenching, rain pits, water harvesting 
structures and percolation tanks.
3.
Tribal Development
Carrying out a tribal development plan targeted for the 9 Gram Panchayats with 
significant tribal population, in the Project Districts, through provision of civil 
works, equipment, consultants’ and NGOs’ services and training. 
Part C:
State-wide Sector Development
1.
Carrying out of a sector policy study related to rural water supply and 
environmental sanitation in Kerala.
2.
Developing and implementing a rural water supply and environmental sanitation 
sector information management system in Kerala through provision of consultants’ 
services, training and equipment.
3.
Carrying out of other sector related special studies, including studies on water 
resources management, alternative technology options and health impact.
Part D:
National Sector Development 
Provision of workshops, training, study tours, consultants’ and NGOs’ services 
and equipment for building capacity of the Mission in implementation of the national 
rural water supply and environmental sanitation sector reform agenda in India.  
*          *          *         *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
