Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3431 IN
Project Agreement
(Kerala Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF KERALA
and
KERALA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION AGENCY
Dated January 4, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3431 IN 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 2001, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and STATE OF KERALA acting by its Governor (Kerala) and KERALA RURAL 
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION AGENCY (KRWSA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR50,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Kerala and KRWSA agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement and in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Kerala and KRWSA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Kerala and KRWSA declare their commitment to the objective of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and 
rural water supply and environmental sanitation practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Parts A, B and C of  the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Kerala and KRWSA shall carry out 
Parts A, B and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the Project Implementation Plan.
(c)
Kerala shall make available to KRWSA as a grant and in a timely manner: 
(i) the proceeds of the Credit made available to Kerala by the Borrower; and (ii) 
additional funds from Kerala’s own resources in amounts sufficient to cover the 
amounts required for carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Kerala and KRWSA shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, and the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitations thereto, Kerala and KRWSA shall:
(i)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association, Kerala 
and KRWSA, a plan satisfactory to 
the Association for the future 
operation of Parts A, 
B and C of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with Kerala and KRWSA on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Kerala and KRWSA shall, at the request of the Association 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B and C of 
the Project, the performance of their obligations under this Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Kerala and KRWSA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B and C of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
Kerala or KRWSA of their obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KRWSA
Section 3.01. KRWSA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and rural water supply and 
environmental sanitation practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. KRWSA shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative and financial 
practices.
Section 3.03. KRWSA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association, for insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KRWSA shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial management and 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A, 
B and C of the Project.
(b)
KRWSA shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such Fiscal Year as so 
audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof, and 
concerning such 
auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, KRWSA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system in order to 
enable KRWSA, not later than March 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and application of 
funds for Parts A, B and C of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and 
projected sources and applications of 
funds for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered 
by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in implementation 
of Parts A, B and C of the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and 
Page  4
(B)
explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A, B 
and C of the Project and expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, KRWSA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines and format acceptable 
to, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. KRWSA shall establish and operate not later than March 31, 2001, 
and thereafter maintain throughout the Project implementation period, a satisfactory 
Financial Management System for Parts A, B and C of the Project, including a 
computerized system, in accordance with the Financial Management Manual agreed with 
the Association.
Section 4.04. KRWSA shall (a) maintain throughout the Project implementation 
period a chartered accountant as a Finance Manager to manage the financial aspects of 
Parts A, B and C of the Project, with experience and qualifications agreed with the 
Association, and (b) employ not later than March 31, 2001, and thereafter maintain 
throughout the Project implementation period, an accountant for each of the DPMUs, 
with experience and qualifications agreed with the Association.
Section 4.05. KRWSA shall maintain throughout the Project implementation period 
a firm of chartered accountants with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable 
to the Association, for auditing the records, accounts and financial statements of 
Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 4.06. Kerala and KRWSA shall cause each of the Gram Panchayats, 
Beneficiary Groups and Support Organizations participating in the Project to (i) open 
and maintain a separate bank account for the Project funds, and (ii) maintain separate 
records and books of accounts for the said funds.
Section 4.07. KRWSA shall employ, for each Batch, firms of chartered accountants 
with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Association for (a) 
providing training in maintaining adequate financial records and accounts to the Gram 
Panchayats, Beneficiary Groups and Support Organizations participating in the Project, 
and (b) auditing the records, accounts and financial statements of the Gram 
Panchayats, Beneficiary Groups and Support Organizations participating in the Project.
Section 4.08. KRWSA shall release Project funds to the Gram Panchayats, 
Beneficiary Groups and Support organizations participating in the implementation of 
the Project in accordance with the procedures and schedule specified in the Financial 
Management Manual. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, Kerala 
and KRWSA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
Page  5
shall promptly notify Kerala and KRWSA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or fax to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party 
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI) 
For Kerala:
Secretary to the Government
Irrigation and Water Supply Department
Government of Kerala
Thiruvananthapuram
Kerala, India
For KRWSA:
Executive Director
Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency
PTC Towers, Third Floor
Thampanoor, Thiruvananthapuram
Kerala, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Kerala may be 
taken or executed by its Secretary, Irrigation and Water Supply Department, or such 
other person or persons as Kerala shall designate in writing, and on behalf of KRWSA 
may be taken or executed by the Executive Director, or such person or persons as KRWSA 
shall designate in writing, and Kerala and KRWSA shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF KERALA
By /s/ Elias George
Authorized Representative
KERALA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION 
AGENCY
By /s/ James Varghese
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more 
per contract, and costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,400,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised 
nationally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
National Shopping
Equipment, materials and vehicles for Parts A, C and D of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,875,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Page  7
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Books, periodicals, software and proprietary equipment and spares for 
Parts A, C and D of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to $100,000 in the aggregate, may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $500 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $25,000 may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement Procedures for Part B of the Project
Works, goods and related services for Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$61,200,000 equivalent, may be procured either: (i) under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully; or (ii) through community participation 
procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines; or (iii) as a last 
resort, and with prior approval of the Association, through force account in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to any contract for works estimated to cost more than 
$300,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for works procured under Part B. 1 
above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, 
KRWSA shall provide to the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, KRWSA 
shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
KRWSA shall furnish to the Association copies of the first 10 contracts 
of each Batch procured under Part B. 4 above prior to execution of such contracts.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  8
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under 
the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
Page  9
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
Term of reference for all consultant contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $12,000 or more per contract in the case of consulting firms, and the 
equivalent of $5,000 or more per contract in the case of individual consultants, shall 
be furnished to the Association for prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after approval of such terms of reference has been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE  2
Implementation Program
1.
Kerala and KRWSA shall not later than December 31 of each year, starting 2001, 
prepare annual action and procurement plans for implementation of the activities under 
Parts A, B and C of the Project, and taking into account the Association’s 
recommendations, finalize, not later than March 31 of each year, such plans.
2.
Kerala and KRWSA shall complete not later than March 31, 2001, the establishment 
and staffing of the DPMUs, including accounts officers, with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
3.
KRWSA shall: (i) select the Support Organizations participating in Part B of the 
Project in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures agreed with the 
Association; and (ii) review the adequacy of such criteria prior to undertaking 
pre-qualification of Support Organizations for each Batch, and only introduce changes 
thereto that are acceptable to the Association.
4.
KRWSA shall select the Gram Panchayats, who in turn, shall select the  
Beneficiary Groups participating in Parts A and B of the Project, both in accordance 
with procedures and eligibility criteria agreed with the Association, including cost 
sharing arrangements, and only introduce changes thereto that are acceptable to the 
Association. 
5.
KRWSA shall enter into an agreement with the Support Organizations, the Gram 
Panchayats and the Beneficiary Groups participating in the implementation of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association, stipulating the roles and responsibilities 
of each of the parties in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project.
6.
KRWSA shall carry out an evaluation of implementation of the First Batch Schemes 
and review with the Association the lessons learnt, and shall thereafter incorporate 
such lessons in the design and implementation of Subsequent Batches. 
7.
Kerala and KRWSA shall cause the Gram Panchayats participating in the 
implementation of Part B of the Project to monitor and ensure that the Beneficiary 
Groups levy and collect water charges sufficient to recover full recurrent operation 
and maintenance cost of each Scheme.
Page  10
8.
Kerala and KRWSA shall take measures, satisfactory to the Association, including 
introduction of incentive schemes to recruit and thereafter retain for at least three 
years the key Project Staff.
9.
To ensure that the tribal population in the Project Gram Panchayats benefit 
fully from the activities under the Project, Kerala and KRWSA shall implement, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association, the tribal development plan agreed with the 
Association.
10.
Kerala and KRWSA shall: (i) ensure that any private land needed for water supply 
and other construction under the Project shall be provided by the owner of such land 
in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with a memorandum of understanding, agreed 
with the Association, between the Beneficiary Group or the Gram Panchayat and the 
owner of such land; and (ii) not commence such works in locations where such land is 
needed until such memorandum of understanding has been concluded.
11.
Kerala and KRWSA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the Project and the achievement of 
the objective thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than June 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out Parts A, B and C of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association by December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of Parts A, B and C of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views 
on the matter.
12.
KRWSA shall, under terms of reference agreed with the Association, recruit 
independent consultants for monitoring quality of construction activities for the 
first Batch, and prior to the commencement of the construction activities for the 
Subsequent Batches.  
13.
Kerala and KRWSA shall: (i) under terms of reference agreed with the 
Association, recruit not later than December 31, 2001 in accordance with the 
procedures specified in Part B. 1 of Section II, of Schedule 1 of the Project 
Agreement a consulting firm for carrying out the state-wide sector policy study under 
Part C.1 of the Project; (ii) furnish to the Association, not later than June 30, 
2003, for the Association’s review and comments, the final sector policy study report 
and strategic plan for its implementation; and (iii) thereafter commence 
implementation of the agreed strategic plan.
14.
Kerala and KRWSA shall under terms of reference agreed with the Association 
commence not later than December 31, 2001, the development of the Sector Information 
Management System under Part C. 2 of the Project, and shall implement the System not 
later than June 30, 2003.
