                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000482




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-34310 JPN-26327)




                                    ON A

                CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.1 MILLION

                       (US$65.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                   FOR THE

   KERALA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
                                  PROJECT




                                 March 9, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Urban and Water Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2008)
                         Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
                            INRe.1.00 = US$ [0.022]
                             US$ 1.00 = [INR 45.00]
                                FISCAL YEAR

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARWSP Accelerated Rural Water Supply    MIS      Management Information System
      Program
BC    Beneficiary Committee             MGP      Modernization Government Program
BG    Beneficiary Group                 MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
BGF   Beneficiary Group Federation      MoRD     Ministry of Rural Development,
                                                 GOI
BPL   Below Poverty Line                MTR      Mid-term Review
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy       NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
CDD   Community Driven Development      O&M      Operation and Maintenance
DPMU  District Project Management Unit  PAD      Project Appraisal Document
DSR   Detailed Scheme Report            PDO      Project Development Objective
DWSS  Department of Water Supply &      PMU      Project Management Unit
      Sanitation
EA    Environmental Assessment          PPA      Panchayat Project Assistants
EMP   Environmental Management Plan     PPTA     Planning Phase Tripartite
                                                 Agreement
ERR   Economic Rate of Return           RGND     Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking
                                        WM       Water Mission
GP-AT Gram Panchayat- Action Team       PRI      Panchayats Raj Institutions
GOI   Government of India               RWSS     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
GOK   Government of Kerala              SC       Standard Conversion Factor
GP    Gram Panchayat                    SCF      Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion
GWR   Groundwater Recharge              SEE      Sustainability Evaluation Exercise
ICR   Implementation Completion         SO       Support Organization
      Report
IPCR  Implementation Phase              SSA      Sarva Shikshha Abhiyan
      Completion Report
IDA   International Development         ST       Scheduled Tribes
      Association
IEC   Information, Education and        SLC      Scheme level committee
      Communication
IPQA  Implementation Phase              TDP      Tribal Development Plan
      Quadrilateral Agreement
IPTA  Implementation Phase Tripartite   TSHM     Total Sanitation and Health Mission
      Agreement
KRWS  Kerala Rural Water Supply &       WDI      Women Development Initiative
A     Sanitation Agency



                                       ii

KWA  Kerala Water Authority            WSS       Water Supply and Sanitation
LWSS Large Water Supply Scheme         WRD       Water Resources Department
M&E  Monitoring and Evaluation




                       Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                     Country Director: Roberto Zagha
                      Sector Manager: Junaid K. Ahmad
                  Project Team Leader: Oscar E. Alvarado
                    ICR Team Leader: Christophe Prevost




                                     iii

                                                     INDIA
 KERALA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
                                                 PROJECT
                                                CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................. 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................... 27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................... 36
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.......................... 50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 51
   MAP




                                                         iv

A. Basic Information
                                                              Kerala Rural Water
                                                              Supply and
Country:            India                Project Name:
                                                              Environmental
                                                              Sanitation Project
Project ID:         P055454              L/C/TF Number(s):    IDA-34310,TF-26327
ICR Date:           03/09/2009           ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                              GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument: SIL                  Borrower:
                                                              INDIA
Original Total
                    XDR 50.1M            Disbursed Amount:    XDR 41.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Government of Kerala
Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency
Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission
Kerala Water Authority
Co financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates

    Process           Date            Process      Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:    07/26/1999    Effectiveness:      02/12/2001       02/12/2001
Appraisal:         05/29/2000    Restructuring(s):
                                 Mid-term
Approval:          11/07/2000                        12/31/2003       10/04/2003
                                 Review:
                                 Closing:            12/31/2006       09/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank              Ratings              Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory    Government:              Satisfactory


                                         v

Quality of                                  Implementing
Supervision:               Satisfactory     Agency/Agencies:          Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
Performance:          Satisfactory          Performance:         Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
   Implementation                            QAG Assessments
     Performance            Indicators             (if any)            Rating

Potential Problem
                                            Quality at Entry
Project at any time              No                                     None
                                            (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any                      Quality of
                                 No                                     None
time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                          Original         Actual
Sector Code (as percent of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            3                0
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector       63               66
Other social services                                       24               24
Sub-national government administration                      10               10



Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                    Primary         Primary
Decentralization                                           Primary         Primary
Participation and civic engagement                         Primary         Primary
Pollution management and environmental health              Primary         Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                          Primary         Primary

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                    At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:                Isabel M. Guerrero              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                Roberto Zagha                  Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:              Junaid Kamal Ahmad                   K. Oblitas
Project Team Leader:           Oscar E. Alvarado           Ghanasham V. Abhyankar
ICR Team Leader:               Christophe Prevost
ICR Primary Author:            Christophe Prevost



                                           vi

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall project development objective is to assist GOK in improving the quality of
rural water supply and environmental sanitation service delivery to achieve sustainability
of investments. Specific development objectives are to: (a) demonstrate the viability of
cost recovery and institutional reforms by developing, testing and implementing the new
decentralized service delivery model on a pilot basis, and (b) build the state's capacity in
improved sector management in order to scale up the new decentralized service delivery
model, statewide.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target Formally          Actual Value

  Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
                                            approval          Target      Completion or
                                          documents)          Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   RWSS Schemes demanded, planned and implemented by Beneficiary
               Groups (BGs)
Value
quantitative or 0                       2500                             3712
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                12/31/2006                       09/30/08
Comments        148 percent of the PAD target. Smaller and less expensive RWSS
(incl. percent schemes than anticipated at appraisal allowed the project to finance a
achievement) greater number of schemes.
Indicator 2 : Percentage of households having toilets in project villages
Value
quantitative or 50percent               60percent                        86percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                12/31/2006                       09/30/08

Comments        143 percent of the PAD target. The sanitation coverage increased from

(incl. percent 76 to 86 percent as the results of project efforts and 85 GPs covered by the

achievement)   project have received the Nirmal Gram Puraskar (GOI award under Clean
               Village Program) for achieving 100 percent household latrine coverage.
Indicator 3 : Percentage of below poverty line population covered in project area
Value
quantitative or 30percent               30percent                        53percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                12/31/2006                       09/30/08
Comments        173 percent of the PAD target. 53 percent of the project beneficiary
(incl. percent households belong to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) population while the


                                            vii

achievement) BPL category in Kerala is 36 percent. In addition, the project has reached
               the most marginalized group: 16 percent of the project beneficiary are
               from Scheduled Cast and scheduled Tribes, whereas these categories
               account for less than 2 percent in the state of Kerala.

Indicator 4 :   Percentage of schemes in which Operation & Maintenance fully financed
                and managed by the user groups after 1 year of commissioning
Value
quantitative or 0                        90percent                        90percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                 12/31/2006                       09/30/08
                PAD target fully achieved. 90 percent of the communities fully recover
Comments        operation and maintenance cost, without any subsidies from the local or
(incl. percent state Government. The communities are collecting water charges on a
achievement) monthly basis. The water charges cover the operating costs like power
                charges, wages to Pump Operator, minor repairs etc.
Indicator 5 : Prepare for eventual statewide scaling-up after the project
                                         GOK expected
Value           Only a very few          to take decision
quantitative or successful pilots using to move to scale                  Decision taken
Qualitative)    project approach         at the end of the
                                         project
Date achieved 01/01/2001                 12/31/2006                       09/30/08
                PAD target fully achieved. GOK has already taken a policy decision to

Comments        scale up the project approach statewide and has submitted a formal request

(incl. percent  to a GOI for follow on operation.         GOK would be able to receive

achievement)    financing support from GOI within the on-going Accelerated Rural Water
                Supply Program aiming at ensuring access to safe potable water in a
                sustainable and reliable manner leading to drinking water security.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally           Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised      Achieved at
                                             approval          Target      Completion or
                                            documents)         Values       Target Years
                Number of district project management units set up, their capacities built
Indicator 1 : and are facilitating decentralized service delivery model in partnership
                with NGOs, Gram Panchayats and user groups
Value
(quantitative 0                          4                  9             9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                 12/31/2006                       09/30/08
Comments
(incl. percent  PAD target fully achieved. After MTR, decision has been taken to

achievement)    expand the project from 4 to all 14 districts, with 2 GPs per new districts.




                                             viii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                             Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived             DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                          (US$ millions)
 1    02/26/2001         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
 2    04/19/2001         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.00
 3    10/25/2001         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.51
 4    06/19/2002         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             3.52
 5    11/12/2002         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             5.26
 6    04/25/2003         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             5.71
 7    11/24/2003         Satisfactory      Satisfactory             8.23
 8    05/24/2004         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           11.81
 9    11/23/2004         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           21.28
10    04/21/2005         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           27.02
11    11/10/2005         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           33.48
12    05/17/2006         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           40.70
13    12/28/2006         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           50.05
14    06/28/2007         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           53.55
15    10/23/2007         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           53.77
16    05/29/2008         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           55.95
17    09/04/2008         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           59.71

H. Restructuring (if any)
N/A




                                       ix

I. Disbursement Profile




                           x

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Since the nineties, GOI has continuously increased its commitment to the drinking
water supply and sanitation sector. Even though, this sector has always been a state
subject, Central Government funding constituted about 40 percent of the total investment
in the sector in 2000. These efforts translated into significant achievements in coverage
with over 75 percent of the rural population having access to drinking water. Progress in
sanitation was not as good, as only 10 percent of the population had access to sanitation
in 2000. At the same time, GOI also recognized the need to improve functionality and
sustainability of the sector. GOI then launched significant sector reforms, including
reserving 20 percent of the Central Government funds to states adopting: (i) community
demand driven approach with partial capital cost recovery and 100 percent O&M
financing by the users; (ii) an integrated approach to water supply sanitation and hygiene
promotion; and (iii) groundwater conservation and recharge measures.

The rural water supply sector in Kerala was facing many challenges. New capital
investments and provision of the drinking water services all over the State were under the
sole responsibility of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). As a result of the government
dominated and target driven service, the rural water supply sector was characterized by
inadequate coverage, poor quality of service and inability to recover operation and
maintenance costs. In addition, lack of perennial water resources and water wells drying
up during the summer season accentuated the hardship, inconvenience and time lost for
fetching water, in particular for women. The problems were even more serious in the case
of the vulnerable groups as they normally live on hilly and difficult terrain with not many
water sources in the nearby vicinity and hence compelled to traverse more.

In 1997, GOK initiated a major decentralization process, including rural water
supply and sanitation services delivery. Under a program named "People's Plan
Campaign", GOK decentralized many relevant functions to local institutions, including
increasing financial transfers as well as staff from the line departments. Under this, GOK
entrusted the local authorities with the responsibility of water and sanitation service
delivery and took the decision to transfer all small rural water supply schemes to GPs
with concomitant power to levy and collect user charges for providing water services.
Further, in May 2000, GOK decided to empower Beneficiary Groups to make investment
decisions, manage development funds, plan, construct and operate water supply schemes.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The CAS for India (June 2001) was built around the
strategic objectives of India's Ninth Plan with a focus on strengthening the enabling
environment for development and sustainable growth and supporting critical
interventions with special benefit to the poor and disadvantaged. The Bank focus was on
two areas, promoting education and health, and supporting pro-poor rural development.
The Bank's sector assistance strategy for RWSS further required adoption of demand
responsive and decentralized service delivery approach- which the project design fully
addressed. The project also supported higher level objectives of India's poverty reduction



                                              1

strategy, namely (i) empowering India's poorest citizens by bringing them into the
process of decision-making at all levels, (ii) increasing the role of the states in poverty
reduction and reforms, and (iii) increasing the effectiveness of pro-poor interventions.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The overall project development objective is to assist GOK in improving the quality of
rural water supply and environmental sanitation service delivery to achieve sustainability
of investments. Specific development objectives are to: (a) demonstrate the viability of
cost recovery and institutional reforms by developing, testing and implementing the new
decentralized service delivery model on a pilot basis, and (b) build the state's capacity in
improved sector management in order to scale up the new decentralized service delivery
model, statewide.

The key indicators of achievement of the development objectives are the following:

    · Cost recovery reforms and new decentralized service delivery model will be
       developed, tested, and successfully implemented
    · Existing single GP water supply schemes owned by KWA and/or GPs are taken
       over and managed by beneficiary groups (BGs)
    · Operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation schemes fully financed
       and managed by BGs in the project GPs
    · Sanitation and hygiene behavior in the first three batches of GPs is significantly
       improved
    · Sector information management system developed and operational
    · Long-term sector policy and strategic plan for implementation is developed
    · GOK will have made a policy decision to scale-up the new service delivery model
       to cover all GPs in the state and will have begun its implementation in the four
       project districts.

These were regrouped for ISR reporting as reflected in the data sheet.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary target group was the rural communities and in particular the poor and
vulnerable groups in four districts in Kerala. The four districts are situated in three
topographical regions in Kerala, i.e. the coastal zone, the midlands and the highlands. The
GPs and eventually the communities would be included in the project by adopting a self-
selection process according to four main criteria: (a) high proportion of poor and
vulnerable groups; (b) severity of water scarcity; (c) low level of latrine coverage; and (d)
high level of implementation capacity. About 2,500 village communities in about 80 GP
would benefit from improved and sustainable water supply and environmental sanitation


                                             2

services by saving time collecting water, better health from more and cleaner water, and
improved sanitation and hygiene practices. In addition to these direct benefits, women
would particularly benefit from the project.

Secondary beneficiaries comprised local governments, NGOs, private sector and the
state government. GPs increased generation of internal resources from the beneficiaries
and transferred full O&M burden to the BGs. NGOs and the private sector would benefit
from increased opportunities to provide efficient services, technical assistance and setting
up supply chains to rural communities. Their participation would provide additional
employment opportunities to the skilled technicians and professionals in the project area.
GOK would benefit from the project as its financial position would improve because of
lower scheme costs when built by the communities, and capital cost sharing by the
beneficiaries and local governments.

1.5    Original Components

The project comprised four main components: (a) institution building; (b) community
development and infrastructure building; (c) statewide sector development; and (d)
national sector development.

Component A: Institution Building (Costs at appraisal/actual: US$ 11.10/US$ 10.23
million) : This component included: (a) Setting up and operation of Kerala Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Agency (KRWSA) covering incremental operating costs, technical
assistance, audit, office equipment and goods, construction quality monitoring and M&E;
(b) Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion covering development and dissemination of IEC
materials and use of mass media to enhance awareness about the complementarities
between water, sanitation and health, and benefits of improved WSS facilities; (c)
Capacity building of the policy makers, project institutions and support Organizations/
NGOs in management of WSS services and in adopting participatory processes; and (d)
GP strengthening through TA, equipment and a small flexible fund

Component B: Community Development and Infrastructure Building (Costs at
appraisal/actual US$ 62.70/US$ 73 million). This component included: (a) Community
development support to BGs and BCs in social, technical and management aspects of
planning, implementation and operations of WSS facilities though community
mobilization and well designed training programs. This mainly involved financing of SO
staff and other costs; (b) Women's development programs to ensure effective
mobilization and participation by women. This involved capacity building programs to
upgrade their WSS related technical and management skills and supporting micro
enterprise initiatives; (c) Design and engineering support to GPs and BGs in preparing
engineering designs, procurement, construction and consultancy support (mainly SO
engineering staff costs); (d) Constriction of 2500 micro water supply schemes, six large
WS schemes, upgrading existing water supply schemes, 45000 household latrines,
upgrading 8000 existing unsanitary latrines, small environmental improvement schemes
like drainage, compost pits, desilting of tanks and implementing groundwater recharge
and rainwater harvesting schemes; and (e) Tribal development Plan to provide targeted




                                             3

and more extensive mobilization and capacity development support and financing WSS
facility improvements in 9 tribal GPs.

Component C: State wide Sector Development (Cost at appraisal/actual US$ 1.20
/US$ 0.04 million). The goal of this component was to provide technical assistance to
GOK for statewide planning, development and management of the water sector in a
comprehensive and integrated manner, including: (a) The formulation of long-term sector
policy and strategic plan to be developed based on comprehensive statewide sector
study ; (b) The development of a comprehensive Sector information management system
(SIMS) to enhance the strategic planning and monitoring of the RWSS sector in the state;
and ( c ) other pilot studies on WSS related issues

Component       D:    National    Sector   Development    (Cost    at   appraisal/actual
US$ 2.20/US$ 0.05 million). The objective of this component was to provide technical
assistance to GOI (represented by RGNDWM) in furthering its sector reform agenda
countrywide.

1.6 Revised Components

N/A

1.7 Other significant changes

The project experienced following significant changes. (a) At MTR, as requested by
GOK, US$ 10 M credit was cancelled from part of the potential savings and the project
area was expanded from 4 districts to all 14 Kerala districts and participating GPs
increased from 89 to 112. The savings- as compared to PAD estimates- were occurring
because of the smaller scheme sizes demanded by the communities and lower investment
costs per scheme because of the community procurement and management of schemes;
(b) Component D, aimed at supporting nationwide advocacy for the sector reform policy,
was cancelled due to lack of interest by GOI; (c) Following the Tsunami in December
2004, remaining part of potential savings assessed at MTR (US$ 10 M) were allocated to
finance the rehabilitation/augmentation of a large water supply scheme in the 2 coastal
GPs and (d) Closing date was extended twice (total 1 year and 9 months) mainly to
support the completion of the construction of the water supply scheme in the Tsunami
affected area, but also to consolidate the GP and BG capacities in sustainable operations
of large number of schemes completed at original closing date.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Use of Lessons in Project Design. The main lesson incorporated is the introduction of
decentralized service delivery approach, including community demand driven approach
with partial capital cost recovery and 100 percent O&M financing by the users, derived
from the lessons of three RWSS operations financed by the Bank in India during the
1990s and especially after the telling success of the third project (SWAJAL in Uttar



                                             4

Pradesh) that unveiled the major shift from adopting a supply driven mode to a more
demand driven and decentralized service delivery approach. In addition, global and local
lessons learnt regarding how to improve sustainability of RWSS investments, and
extensive analytical work carried by the Bank in India were taken into account in project
design (see Water Resources Management Sector Review, Rural water Supply and
Sanitation Report January 1998).

Focus on Institutional Changes. The project objectives rightly focused on piloting the
institutional change that was needed to test and implement the new approach. The project
components represented a balance of institutional support, capacity building and
infrastructure development.         Regarding the local level, the project comprised
decentralizing project planning and implementation and water supply service operations
to the GPs and BGs, with the latter directly responsible for such activities during the
entire project cycle. Under this arrangement the GPs were instrumental in jump-starting
the planning phase, facilitating project implementation and monitoring BG activities. GPs
are expected to continue monitor BGs during the operational phase, to assure WSS
services are provided and help improve sustainability. At state level, the new institutional
structure (KRWSA) set up for the project had unitary control and accountability to
outcomes ­ which it successfully managed in partnership with NGOs, GPs and BGs. The
Tsunami scheme, implemented by KWA, also brought an opportunity to establish a new
model for MVS.

Government Commitment and Risks. Kerala's commitment and ownership to the reform
agenda remained firm throughout project implementation. The project design had
identified all the possible risks ­ which were low to modest- and the actual
implementation too experienced only minor risks. The only risk assessed to be difficult to
mitigate in the PAD, related to the reversing self­reliance by the users due to populist
policies by any future government, never materialized.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation was satisfactory throughout the course of the project. As a result, the
PAD physical targets were fully achieved at the original closing date of December 2006
and substantially exceeded by the extended closing date. However, the project
experienced some implementation difficulties and delays for the following reasons:

The Learning Curve. The BGs were acting as implementing agencies for the first time,
and GOK was for the first time playing the role of a facilitator. The BGs had to be
trained thoroughly in procurement and book keeping and audits.           The selection of
credible Support Organizations (SO) and their capacity building to provide technical,
social and management support to the BGs was a formidable challenge. KRWSA and its
district units were built on the foundation of bringing together multi disciplinary skills
with a good degree of private sector staff and securing a good gender balance. Thus, the
learning curve was long and steep, but was well conquered by MTR.

Major role of factors subject to government control. First, frequent turnover of key
staff in the state and district level project management units weakened the ownership and



                                               5

quality of leadership especially after the MTR. In 7 years the project had seven project
directors, eight Directors of finance & administration and a few district manager
positions were vacant for extended periods of time. Second, though Government did set
up additional DPMUs to support an expanded scope of the project at MTR, this extra
workload did exert additional pressure on the PMU in managing the implementation.

Factors outside government control. The inclusion of one large water supply scheme in
the project in the tsunami affected area put extra load on the PMU. In addition, one
Parliamentary, two State, and two PRI elections during the project life led to some
slowdown in pace of implementation during the election periods.

Innovations during implementation: During and after MTR, and based on the success
of the institutional model, the project innovated further institutional models to prepare the
state for eventual scaling up. Project implementation tools proved to be very conducive to
local capacity building and community driven development. These included transparent
criteria for    village and     NGO selection, well designed scheme cycle,            model
Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) between the user committees, NGOs, GPs and
the project, process monitoring, and systematic indicators for monitoring performance,
results and sustainability.

Overall, project design, objectives, policy shifts, institutional and implementation
arrangements and overall quality at entry all proved to be satisfactory, as no major
changes were needed during implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation

M&E Design: The M&E as well as the indicators were adequate to monitor progress
towards the project outcomes. The M&E system was based on a set of physical, financial
and process progress, as well as DO and sustainability indicators. It should however be
noted that the M&E system missed to properly monitor water consumption and time for
collecting water, which ultimately makes it more difficult to assess the project impact.
Despite this weakness, the overall quality of M&E system can be qualified as excellent
practice and was appropriate to generate reliable data.

M&E Implementation: The M&E system was satisfactory throughout project life.
Reports were produced on time. First, monthly-consolidated reports were prepared at
PMU and sent to DPMU and GOK. Second, comprehensive analytical and informative
annual action plans and quarterly progress reports were prepared in a timely manner and
sent to GOK, GOI and the Bank The MIS software system used for physical and financial
progress monitoring of project implementation at BGs worked well.

M&E Utilization: The M&E was successfully used for the effectiveness of project
implementation. Internal and/or independent control mechanisms have been regular
features of the project's M&E system. Firstly, concurrent independent construction
quality monitoring ensured good quality construction, and achieved greater fiduciary
assurance. Second, two rounds of process monitoring helped improve the processes
relating to entry management, community mobilization and community participation in



                                             6

the project. Third, five rounds of sustainability evaluation exercises (SEE) provided
reliable and useful assessment of the functioning of systems over time horizon to appraise
sustainability. In addition, results from the SEE were used to ensure that suitable post-
implementation support was provided to address issues relating to quality, yield, ground
water recharge, and O&M systems to completed schemes. Fourth, pre-project and post-
project RWSS coverage data was being compiled to assess contextual project
achievements. On sanitation, in addition to coverage, the access data (actual use of
facilities) was gathered from the SEE exercise. Finally, the project also undertook several
thematic studies to document project interesting stories (water metering, management of
large water supply schemes by communities) or challenging issues (rehabilitation of
KWA water supply schemes, roles of GP and other institutions for project sustainability).

This project benefited from having staggered batches. Apart from tracking progress, the
M&E was aimed at drawing lessons from implementation experiences of previous
batches so that the implementation strategies were modified and improved in an ongoing
manner for the subsequent batches. Some examples of how inputs from the M&E were
utilized include:

· The Planning and Implementation phases were collapsed into one such that some
    construction activities can be started/ completed within the erstwhile planning phase
    itself- such as: (a) construction of water source (to be timed with peak summer to
    ensure adequacy of the yield); (b) Construction of household toilets as soon as
    demand is generated (and as this is a private facility) without waiting for formal
    launch of the Implementation Phase.

· Findings from M&E formed the basis of post implementation support actions relating
    to failed sources, quality affected sources etc.

· From Batch 3 onwards, the payment to NGOs was linked to outputs achieved (both
    physical and capacity building) - rather than only on inputs on capacity support- such
    that an incentive was created for the good performing NGOs to accelerate the pace of
    implementation and to get their fees faster.

· The payment of last installment of project funds to the BGs was further split into two,
    to minimize the need for recovery of unspent balances from the communities at the
    closure time.

Overall, the project was successful in institutionalizing the mechanism of information
processing and data analysis. Excellent M&E capacity has been developed during the
project within KRWSA as well as at the districts level. The M&E will continue to be
used by the GOK for all related activities to be implemented in the future by KRWSA.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards: The project has successfully addressed the three major
environmental issues identified at appraisal. These included: (i) water scarcity in summer
seasons and groundwater table decline; (ii) interface between existing and new dug/bore


                                              7

well sources; and (iii) risk of contamination of groundwater sources due to leach from pit
latrines. The project developed specific interventions related to: (i) sanitation and hygiene
promotion through systematic IEC campaigns and capacity building; (ii) promotion of
household latrines and converting the existing deep pit latrines into shallow ones; (iii)
systematic efforts at location of, as well as recharging, ground water resources; and (iv)
water quality management to ensure potable water. All these interventions have helped in
fostering a complementary relationship between water, health and sanitation.

The project achievements demonstrated project's full compliance with the
environmental safeguards management: (i) Only 5.3 percent of water sources were
problematic; (ii) 68,000 new household latrines were constructed resulting in a
cumulative coverage of 86 percent in project GPs, and 24,000 deep pit latrines were
converted into shallow ones; (iii) 89,000 environmental management facilities such as
soak pits, compost pits etc were created; (iv) silver ionization units were introduced to
address biological contamination; (v) healthy home surveys to determine the issues and
actions thereof for sanitation and health management were conducted; and (vi) over
30,000 persons were trained in 2,700 training programs.

Social Safeguards: The project has secured lands adopting the agreements made during
the project preparation. No lands were acquired involuntarily. The 3700 WS schemes
required 71 acres of land, either for water source and/ or storage (tank). Of these, 23 acres
(31 percent) were public lands, and the remaining 48 acres (69 percent) were purchased
at the market price.

Indigenous Peoples: The Tribal Development Plan (TDP) was successfully implemented.
In accordance with the Bank's policy on Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), a TDP was
prepared at appraisal in order to ensure that the tribals would participate and derive full
benefit from the project. As the tribals are confined to some pocket areas, the TDP was
designed for 9 GPs and the strategy and implementation mode were characteristically
different from mainstream ­ tribal friendly. The project has then successfully mobilized
6,755 tribal households into 162 Beneficiary Groups who in turn have planned,
constructed and are operating and maintaining their WS schemes and constructed some
2,600 household latrines.

Fiduciary     Management:       Fiduciary   compliance     was    satisfactory     throughout
implementation. Fund flow and expenditures monitoring were adequate. Financial
management reports were prepared in a timely manner throughout project
implementation. The financial management structure of the project was essentially based
on GPs and BGs undertaking financial reporting at the grass root level. They were
successful in undertaking final audit of expenditures, maintaining project records and
accounts in a systematic manner, and rendering timely periodic financial information to
the district and state level units. For larger water supply schemes, financial and
accounting procedures were suitably modified to deliver the required results.

Procurement: Procurement was carried out in accordance with the agreed procedures,
despite the highly decentralized schemes involving a large number of implementing
agencies (GPs and BGs). Most of the procurement under the project was done by BGs.



                                             8

Transparency was generally good with different parties overseeing each other. In spite of
the large number of schemes undertaken, there were very few cases of complaints and
these were promptly attended to by the project. Equally important, the community
participation in procurement was efficient. Comparison between estimates and actual cost
of goods and works for the schemes constructed by the communities revealed a
difference of minus 10-15 percent in actual construction cost.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The post completion operation is adequately addressed. Project design was adequate
in ensuring sustainability on all fronts: technical, financial and institutional. All the small
WSS have been completed and commissioned and are being operated and maintained
(many of these now for more than 3 years) by the BGs. Project has invested substantially
in capacitating BGs in scheme management. Water tariffs have been fixed appropriately
corresponding to the O&M expenditures and are being levied and collected in all the
schemes. BGs Federation and arrangements and role of GPs (see below) have further
strengthened the sustainability prospects.

Project's sustainability prospects are good. Overall performance of BGs in managing
the water and sanitation facilities has been so far excellent, as reflected in the following
results of the sustainability monitoring exercises carried out in over 1500 completed WS
schemes: (i) overall functionality : 94 %,(ii) user satisfaction= 90 %,(iii) prospects of
sustainability = 92 %,(iv) Source failures= 5.3 %; (v) sources with major water quality
issues= less than 1 %, (vi) major system breakdowns= nil, (vii) WS disruption due to
financial constraints= nil. These exercises have also exposed specific areas that require
further attention and improvement including: Chlorination, record keeping, and
completion of GWR measures. Also, water scarcity, might become in the future a threat
to source sustainability.

Above all, fully operationalizing and maintaining over time the designed
interactions between Government, GPs and BGs is key to long term sustainability. GP
will continue to play an apex function in providing not only an advisory and supportive
role but also in overseeing the functioning of the Beneficiary Groups (BG). Project GPs
have set up BG Federations (BGF) as registered societies and their MOA and bye-laws
have been cleared by GOK to act as O&M backup support to the BGs. GP president is the
president t of the BGF and GP members are members of the BGF. Two nominated
members from each BG are also members of the BGF.

As per bye laws, the BGF has well stipulated responsibilities to support BGs. For
example, the BGFs have developed a panel of approved plumbers and electricians (with
daily rates) to support BGs on request. In Kerala, each GP has an urban center which has
shops providing supply chains for maintenance and repair materials and equipment
required for WSS schemes. The BGFs have raised initial funds from and also collects
monthly contributions from BGs. GPs are being empowered to also provide financial
support to BGs (GOK clearance underway). Thus, BGF, backed up by GP, shall ensure
the necessary technical, financial and institutional support to the BGs. Overall, this




                                              9

institutional arrangement seems likely to be sustainable - especially in view of the large
size and demonstrated management capacity of the GPs as well as of the BGs.

In the case of large WSS, BGs have been mobilized into a Scheme Level Committee
(SLC) in which the GP is represented. The Project, on its part, has invested substantially
(both hardware and software) in the SLCs which now have a fully equipped office to
manage the scheme operations.

The capacities created under the project will continue to be available for the sector.
KRWSA will continue to exist both at state and at district levels. KRWSA will continue
to be in charge of RWSS sector development and will ensure apex level support to BGs
and BGFs and all large water supply schemes. GOK has taken a policy decision and
implemented it by allocating 20 % of GOI's ARWSP funds to KRWSA to continue
doing SVS schemes in a manner the project did ( without dilution of any of the reforms
implemented under the project) and is expected to implement future GoK RWS programs.
Based on what they consider a successful operation, GOK has now prepared and
submitted a follow-on project to the Bank for continued support. This essentially is aimed
at scaling up the reforms tested during this pilot project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives remain highly relevant to current GOK priorities. First,
access to water supply and sanitation services features prominently in Kerala
Modernizing Government Programme (MGP). Eight out of the 28 initiatives of the MGP
for which detailed implementation plans were prepared relate to WSS services
improvement. The themes included in the initiatives are based on the project experience.
Second, the Water Policy published in 2008 by the Water Resources Department is a
further proof of the relevance of the project objectives to State priorities (refer details
under achievement of second PDO in section 3.2). Third, GOK and GP's representatives
consider that sustainability of WSS services is a key element of their own accountability.
Fourth, the decentralized approach built in the project design makes it highly relevant to
the priorities of the GOK, as it demonstrated that the GPs and the rural communities
could plan, construct, and manage WSS facilities.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Specific Development Objectives #1: Demonstrate the viability of cost recovery and
institutional reforms by developing, testing, and implementing the new decentralized
service delivery model on a pilot basis.

This objective was fully achieved and the key outcome targets were exceeded. The
project has successfully demonstrated that GPs and communities, including the poorest
and the vulnerable groups, can demand, plan, design, implement and manage water
supply and sanitation schemes, and contribute to partial capital investment and fully




                                             10

recover operation and maintenance cost. This is an outstanding achievement in the Indian
context for the following reasons:

First, the decentralized service delivery model has been fully accepted by GPs and rural
communities. The project worked successfully in all 3712 participating communities (112
GPs) i.e. 148 percent of the PAD target. At the end of the project, more than 3.000
demands for new schemes are still pending, which demonstrates the large acceptance of
the project principles. The project helped provide access to improved water services to
about 995.000 people and an additional 132.000 people will be served, once the on-going
works of the 7 large water supply schemes are completed in 2009. In the GPs covered by
the project, water supply coverage increased from 55 to 81 percent and sanitation
coverage from 76 to 86 percent. In addition, the project directly helped about 753.000
people to have access to improved sanitation services. As a result of the project efforts to
build up the community's awareness on sanitation and hygiene and its relation to water,
85/112 GPs have received the Nirmal Gram Puraskar (GOI award under Clean Village
Program) for achieving 100 percent housed latrine coverage.

Second, GPs and communities, including the most vulnerable groups contributed
substantially towards the capital cost and helped in reducing State subsidy. GPs
contributed US$ 6 million i.e. 8 percent and communities US$ 11.80 million i.e. 16
percent to the project infrastructure component. The average household contribution
towards capital cost for rural water supply scheme is US$ 46. This is comparable to one
month salary for an unskilled laborer or 100 kg of rice. Similarly, the Scheduled Cast and
Scheduled Tribes (6,755 households) who hitherto had received free services contributed
a significant amount estimated at US$ 187.000 in cash and labor, i.e. US$ 27 per
household. As a result of the project, state subsidies towards capital cost for these new or
rehabilitated rural water supply schemes were effectively reduced under the project from
100 to about 74 percent. In addition, the level of service provided was higher than
anticipated as 100 percent of the households have opted for private connection. Three
percent of the schemes have financed and installed on their own consumer meters, a rare
phenomenon in the water sector in India.

Third, 90 percent of the communities fully recover recurring operation and maintenance
cost, without any subsidies from the local or state Government. This represents an
outstanding achievement, as compared to the average situation in rural India, where
estimates of cost recovery rate for O&M in piped water schemes are usually very low1.
The water charges cover the operating costs including power charges, wages to pump
operator, minor repairs etc. Average cost of supplying water is working out to US$ 0.06
per m3, which attests the efficiency of the scheme. O&M cost per household per month
is US$ 0.69, while average tariff is about 1 US$. This average O&M cost compares
favorably with the cost per household for this size of schemes serving between 50 and



1Cost recovery is estimated about 27 percent according to the Review of Effectiveness of Rural Water
supply Schemes in 10 States in India- World Bank-June 2008: 1 percent in West Bengal, 6 percent in Tamil
Nadu, 19 percent in Orissa, 21 percent in Andhra Pradesh, 30 percent in Uttarakhand, 36 percent in Uttar
Pradesh, 47 percent in Karnataka, 60 percent in Kerala, 61 percent in Maharashtra and 86 percent in Punjab.




                                                   11

100 households2. Finally, 95 percent of the households do pay their bills regularly, even
the BPL families. These tariffs are actually higher than those levied by Kerala Water
Authority (US$ 0.45 for families that consume up to 5 m3 per month with exception for
BPL families who get free access), and this is not seen as a problem.

Finally, the project was also very successful in being inclusive of the poor and
marginalized groups. First, while the Below Poverty Line (BPL) population in Kerala is
36 percent, 53 percent of the project beneficiary households belong to the BPL category.
Second, the project has reached and served the most vulnerable groups generally living in
remote and hilly areas. About 16 percent of the project beneficiaries are from Scheduled
Caste and Scheduled Tribes whereas these categories account for less than 2 percent in
the state of Kerala. Finally, the project equally succeeded in empowering women,
throughout the project cycle. Most of the water committee treasurers are women.

Specific Development Objective #2: Build the State's capacity in improved sector
management in order to scale up the new decentralized service delivery model statewide.
This was fully achieved.

First, the project helped in building capacity for further scaling up at all levels: state,
districts, GPs and communities as well as the support organizations and private sector.
Increased pace of implementation of the latest batches compared to the first ones attested
the increased capacity of all stakeholders. In addition, after MTR, looking to the success
of project implementation and huge demand for the project from the GPs, GOK decided
to expand the scope of the project from 4 districts to all 14 districts in Kerala and 112
GPs. This limited scaling up was successfully implemented.

Second, GOK, KRWSA and KWA conducted innovative experiments whose lessons
learned would be critical for further scaling up. These include: (a) GP Action Teams (G-
PAT) model, wherein GPs recruits individual support staff rather than recruiting a SO;
(b) Scheme level committee model for large water supply schemes within a GP area;
( c ) Transfer of ownership and management of existing single GP water supply schemes
from KWA to GPs and BGs, (d) Kerala Water Authority/GP partnership model in
implementing and managing large multi GP water supply scheme, (e) Implementing
statewide rain water harvesting campaign and capacity building, and (f) The Sector
information management system developed as a pilot, though no statewide
implementation has taken place.

Third, GOK has developed, based on project achievements, a sound policy framework to
move at scale. GOK has approved in 2008 a new State Water Policy aiming at: (i) laying
down guidelines and policy parameters for the optimal utilization and proper
conservation of the water resource; (ii) ensuring people's participation in the water sector
within the framework of decentralized democratic institutions; and (iii) promoting
suitable frameworks and strategies for continual up-gradation of water environment. This



2Review of Effectiveness of Rural Water supply Schemes in India- World Bank-June 2008




                                                 12

policy is largely inspired by the experience and lessons learnt from the project. GOK has
completed a detailed sector RWS assessment study and prepared a draft RWS policy.

Finally and equally important, the prospect for scaling up the decentralized service
delivery approach is good. GOK has already taken a policy decision to scale up the
project approach and is seeking continued Bank assistance to do so. Further GOI's new
policy guidelines for the Eleventh Plan also supports the project approach and would
encourage the states to move to statewide scaling up of the sector reforms.

3.3 Efficiency

An ex-post economic analysis of water supply investment (See Annex 3) was carried out
with a methodology similar to that of the PAD. The appraisal economic analysis
reviewed a sample of 23 water supply schemes that were earmarked for funding under the
project during the first year. The sample schemes were selected from across four
topographically different districts, and the benefits quantified comprise (a) the value of
time avoided from collecting water; (b) the value of incremental water consumption; (c)
the salvage value of the infrastructure investments after 20 years of operation; and (d) the
costs that would have to be incurred to retain existing water arrangements, including
maintenance cost of existing water source, household level coping cost related to
individual treatment of water (boiling) and individual storage (water tank). In an attempt
to replicate the computation of the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at appraisal, the ICR
economic analysis has quantified the first three benefits but not the latter, since there is
no data supporting the assumptions that households no longer use previous water sources,
storage devices or water treatment measures. In fact, given that the rural water supply
schemes are not designed to give access to 24-hour water supply, it is doubtful that
households would abandon storage or alternative sources.

Despite the omission of some of the assumed benefits at appraisal, the inclusion of all
costs excepting capital investments under the sanitation component, and more
conservative assumptions on the opportunity cost of time, the ICR analysis can confirm a
robust rate of return of 18.7 percent or a net present value of more than 400 million
Indian Rupees (US$ 8.9 million). This ERR is lower than the appraisal estimate of 25.1
percent, which can be explained by the slightly smaller population covered than
anticipated at appraisal and minor departures from the initial assumptions. With benefits
like health and environmental improvements not quantified although the cost of hygiene
education and environmental management are included, the achieved ERR is sizeable.
Most importantly, average household contributions to operation and maintenance of the
water systems exceed the actual cost spent on O&M by almost thirty percent, suggesting
a solid willingness to pay by beneficiaries for the services rendered and a significant
potential for long-term financial sustainability.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Based on the achievements stated above, satisfactory ERR and the potential for long term
sustainability, the outcome of the project is rated Satisfactory.




                                              13

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As indicated in Section 3.2 under achievement of first PDO, the project has reached such
sections/ pockets which otherwise had remained un-reached by the public sector
agencies. Consequently, Reaching the unreached meant substantial incremental increases
(22- 40%) for the SC, ST and BPL households. It is worthy to note that women hold at
least one important executive position in the Beneficiary Groups as reflected by the
figures below: President in 33% BGs; Secretary in 53%; and Treasurer in 73% of the
BGs. The project has made everyday life much easier for the households, especially
saving the womenfolk hours of backbreaking labor to fetch water each day. The project
has broken gender barriers ­ by capacitating women to take up traditional male jobs such
as pump operators, masons, pipe layers and fabricators. These are totally new roles for
women which has helped them enter the skilled labor market and demand equal wages.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The institutional objectives (implementation of the decentralized service delivery
approach through GPs and communities (BGs)) were achieved and even exceeded, as the
schemes are fully operational, likely sustainable and the project was instrumental in
preparing the State for further scaling up this institutional model.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project has confirmed results from other states where similar models have been
adopted. However, this may be the best case in terms of cost recovery and high prospects
of sustainability. Large GPs and strong BGs that bring economies of scale and natural
high capacity, compounded by a relatively wealthy economy might help explain these
results. In any circumstance, lessons from Kerala should help improve the performance of
RWSS programs in other states.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcome is rated Low or Modest in terms of: (i) there is
sustained political commitment to policy reforms by GOK and GOI; (ii) ownership of the
GOK for policy and institutional reforms to operationalize the reform through the project
implementation and; (iii) GPs and BGs buying into the new service delivery system
including demand for improved services and taking over their management and financial
responsibilities.  The likelihood that internal or external changes occur that can be
detrimental to the ultimate achievement of the project outcome is low. In addition,
adequate arrangements are in place to help avoid or mitigate most of those uncertainties
as elaborated below.



                                             14

First, the project approach was fully aligned with the GOI and GOK reform policy
agenda on the rural water and sanitation sector and decentralization. GOI and GOK
commitment to reforms was firm and remains firm, as brought out elsewhere in this
report. The fundamental principles of community empowerment, capital cost-sharing and
full cost recovery for O&M have never been questioned during the entire project life
despite changes in the political leadership in Kerala.

Second, GPs in Kerala have strong capacity and leadership. GPs in Kerala are in much
stronger position than their counterparts in rest of the Indian states given their large size
(average population 30,000), urbanized character and solid development experience.
Since 1997, because of the significant devolution of State's Plan funds (untied). GPs have
acquired significant capacity to implement development programs and manage services.
GPs are quite confident in playing a role of a catalyst, mentor and supporter of BGs. This
win-win relationship between GPs and BGs bodes well for long term sustainability of the
assets created under the project

Third, the technologies used for providing water supply and improved sanitation services
are simple, robust and easy to maintain in order to increase the chances of sustainability.

Fourth, the overall concept of the project is to provide schemes which community
demand and can afford to pay for the services. Communities have demonstrated their
willingness and capacity to pay for the service provided, even for the poorest families and
the most vulnerable groups. However, more time would be needed to assess with
certainty the long term capacity of the communities to deal with major repairs. Equally
important is the particularly favorable economic context of the rural area in Kerala (with
a lot people receiving remittances) which would help mitigate the financial sustainability
risk.

However, in the future, water scarcity might become the most serious concern for
sustainability due to change in rains pattern in Kerala and overall climate change.
However, the sustainability of the yield have been enhanced by adapting scientific
methods in locating sources and in implementing associated measures for water
conservation and ground water recharge.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The Bank's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.           The process of
selection of Kerala state for Bank support itself was innovative. The Bank prepared a
Generic Project Concept Note which was disseminated by GOI amongst all states for
assessing interest and reform-readiness of the States and then recommended Kerala as the
first State for Bank support. Though the Bank generally adopted focus-state approach at
that time the Bank agreed to support Kerala because of its unusual sector merit. In view



                                             15

of the willing partner and enabling socio-political environment the Bank pursued
implementation of major sector reforms under the project.

The project was speedily prepared within 11 months. By appraisal, significant progress
was achieved in launching the first batch of RWSS schemes and first lessons learned
were included into the project design. The Team made conscious efforts to rope in the
PRI department in designing the project along with the nodal water resources department
which was exemplary and beneficial to the project.

The project design ensured consistency with the Bank's fiduciary and safeguard policies.
The national and international experiences and lessons learned (refer Section 2.1) were
well integrated into the project design. The institutional design and implementation
arrangements were well thought through. The project risks were well identified and
measures to address them were built in. As subsequent experience proved, the project
design did not require any major modifications during implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Project implementation
benefited from the smooth preparation phase. The Bank attained team continuity, with the
same team leader and social expert in charge throughout the entire supervision period.
Supervision teams were consistently substantial, covering all project aspects. Seventeen
supervision missions were carried out, two every year, all of them well documented. In
addition to the interaction with GOK's high level relevant officials and the Project
Management Unit and desk reviews of reports, continuous efforts were made to carryout
field visits to participating GPs and beneficiary communities, to gain feedback and on-
site direct understanding of project effectiveness and impact. Splitting the Bank
supervision teams into several groups enabled reaching significant visit coverage (each
GP visited at least twice and about 500 schemes visited during project life). The Bank
particularly made substantial efforts to monitor and support measures towards enhancing
project sustainability.

The Bank team worked hard to respond to the emergency situation that arose after the
Tsunami in December 2004 by allocating project funds and quickly designing the new
component with related changes in the legal documents.

Supervision aide memoirs and Implementation Status Reports (ISR) indicate that due
attention was consistently provided to PDOs, project implementation progress and
monitoring of legal covenants and agreed actions and issues, particularly including
fiduciary and safeguards issues. Ratings provided at ISR, consistently satisfactory
throughout the implementation period, are considered realistic.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Because of the above mentioned factors, the overall rating for Bank's performance has
been rated Satisfactory.




                                           16

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. GOK promptly set up the new KRWSA
and fully staffed and equipped it within the first four months of identification mission.
GOK largely maintained autonomy of KRWSA and most decisions of scheme and
procurement approvals were taken by KRWSA. As and when required, GOK issued
guidelines to reiterate the necessary policy support and environment. Advance project
funds were provided consistently and the key project covenants were always in
compliance.

Borrower performance, however, slipped from highly satisfactory to satisfactory during
the last 3 years (of which 20 months were in the project extension period) due to failure
in maintaining KRWSA directors and some of the other key staff for a reasonable period.
Though these failures resulted in some implementation delays, GOK still ensured that the
basic project principles were never compromised. Equally important for the future of the
sector reform, GOK has committed itself to maintaining project staff and in providing
adequate budget for KRWSA to implement any further rural water supply program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Implementing Agencies performance is rated as Satisfactory. The performance of
KRWSA was highly satisfactory in preparation and during the first three years of
implementation and then declined to satisfactory. The main factors contributing to this
performance were: strong ownership of the project principles, commitment of its diverse
and multi disciplinary staff, emphasis on forging collaboration with the GPs, SOs and
User groups, developing and signing MoUs between them, adopting scheme cycle
approach for activity sequencing, developing and managing an excellent M& E system,
computerized financial management system, field based capacity building programs,
constant endeavor to stakeholder consultations and       regular learning and correcting
implementation strategies where needed. The leadership especially by the first two
Project directors was inspiring and supportive of its staff and the project approach. The
KWA who was in charge of implementing the Tsunami scheme also had a satisfactory
performance.

The performance of GPs in partnership with the BGs was satisfactory all along project
life. GPs provided strong leadership and support to BGs while still allowing them to
independently handle implementation and procurement responsibilities. Beneficiary
Groups too demonstrated high level of interest, ownership and capacity in planning,
implementing and managing WSS services ­Extensive capacity support provided by the
project ­ mainly through SOs- was extremely useful to GPs and BGs in managing this
responsibility.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Therefore, overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.



                                           17

6. Lessons Learned

Decentralized service delivery approach for RWSS has the potential for scaling-up
access. The project's ability to exceed most of the targets in the Development Objective
coupled with the strengthening of the sector institutions and local governments to ensure
sustained delivery capacity demonstrates the potential of this approach to go statewide.
However, as demonstrated with this project, the step by step approach taken to scaling up
is a sound way to build capacity and prepares the ground for moving toward a sector wide
approach and scaling up. Capacity building for implementation at local level and the
existence of clear and enforceable "rules-of-the-game" contributes greatly to the success
of decentralized implementation. "Learning-by-doing" approach to capacity-building is
time-consuming but has proven to be effective. Developing implementation capacity is
initially slow but when fully achieved results in accelerated delivery of services.

Need for Enabling Environment: Ownership of the project design and continuous
support during its implementation at the political, bureaucratic and operational levels is a
prerequisite for project success. Conducive policy environment and willingness to learn
by doing are equally vital for success.

Community Demand Driven is certainly the most appropriate approach for
providing sustainable and high quality WSS services in rural areas, specially in the
context of India. Responsibility drives capacity. Informed choice by the communities
leads to innovative, appropriate, cost-efficient and sustainable solutions, as shown in the
project through the various technology options implemented, the spontaneous
implementation of meters and the unexpected and impressive number of latrines
conversion, ground water point recharges, environmental management facilities and rain
water harvesting structures constructed. All these communities participated in the
planning, design, procurement, implementation and management of their facilities,
including the most vulnerable groups, therefore ownership is strong. If demand for
reliable, equitable and sustainable water service remains high, experience and freedom to
act as autonomous body would definitely help the communities to address the next
challenges, including expansion of the schemes, major breakdowns or sources
sustainability issues. Nowhere in India, has such achievement been reached using a
different approach.

Active participation of local governments is also critical to ensure greater
accountability and long term sustainability. If most of the responsibility would be in
the hands of the BGs, the Panchayat Raj Institutions should be well integrated into the
project's institutional design. In addition, organic and sustained links between state,
districts, GPs and BGs are essential to guarantee the institutional sustainability and to
ensure the appropriate operation and maintenance and long term management of the
facilities. It is quite unrealistic to assume that the water and sanitation committees would
become sustainable at the end of the project. Continued support and regular monitoring
will be immensely useful in consolidating the institutions. This is particularly relevant in
the case of the larger water supply schemes, for which sustainability challenges are
obviously bigger.




                                               18

Bank needs to have effective remedies during supervision: While piloting new
approaches and implementing paradigm shifts ­ the borrowers must consistently provide
sound and continuous leadership and staff in the project management units - throughout
the project period. The Bank too should have adequate remedies (such as suspension of
disbursements) to address the issue of frequent and arbitrary turnover of key project staff-
which can affect pace and quality of implementation.

Improved assessment of cost estimates. Projects implemented directly by communities
can earn cost savings than when done through contractors. In this project, for example,
actual costs were approximately 15% less than those estimated at appraisal. Greater
accuracy can be introduced in cost estimation at appraisal by factoring-in the
procurement selection method and implementation procedures.

Avoid inclusion of a national component in State projects: The small national TA
component of the project which aimed at supporting nationwide advocacy of the sector
reform policy did not take off due mainly to diminishing of GOI's interest during
implementation. It may be best for the Bank to continue concentrating its support on
state- level projects only.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's own evaluation report is comprehensive (attached unedited in Annex 7).
GOK has in a separate letter of February 13, 2009, endorsed Bank assessments and
ratings contained in the Draft ICR that was sent to it by the Bank for review and
comments.

(b) Co financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           19

                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)


                                  Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                        Percentage of
                                     (US$ millions)       Estimate
                                                       (US$ millions) *      Appraisal

(A). INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                     10.10              10.23              101%

(B). COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT AND
INFRASTRUCTURE                    62.70              73.00              116.4%

BUILDING
(C). STATEWIDE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT                       1.20               0.04               3.3%

(D). NATIONAL SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT                       2.00               0.05               2.5%

Total Baseline Cost               76.00              83.32              109.6%

Physical Contingencies            5.40               0.00               0.00

Price Contingencies               8.40               0.00               0.00
Total Project Costs               89.90              83.32              92.7%
Project Preparation Fund          0.29               0.29               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                0.00               0.00               .00
Total Financing Required          0.00               0.00
* Includes physical and price contingencies

(b) Financing
                                                                  Actual/Latest
Source of Funds                        Type of Co-Appraisal                     Percentage of
                                       financing   Estimate       Estimate
                                                   (US$ millions) (US$ millions)Appraisal

Borrowing Agency                                   6.80           3.52          51.7%
Borrower                                           0.00           0.00          0.00
Local Communities                                  10.70          11.80         110%
International Development
Association (IDA)                                  65.50         62.00          94.6%

Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
Borrowing Country                                  6.80           6.00          88 %




                                               20

                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project comprised four main components: (A) institutional building; (B) community
development, and infrastructure building; (C) statewide sector development; and (D)
national sector development. Whereas the component A and B were highly satisfactory,
Component C and D did not deliver the expected outputs. However, underachievement of
the component C and D had almost no impact on the project's overall satisfactory
achievement.

Component A: Institutional Strengthening

Key Outputs:

1.      Capacities of KWRSA and DPMUs have been built to adopt a demand
responsive approach and participatory processes and act as a facilitator and
support units for GPs and BGs. KRWSA's composition, functions and operational
procedures have been implemented as per the PAD. Assistance to KRWA and DPMUs
have been provided as anticipated in the form of incremental cost, technical assistance,
audit, equipment and goods, construction supervision monitoring and monitoring and
evaluation. The project has pro-actively sourced its key staff from NGO / Civil Society
Sector and is well gender balanced.

KRWSA demonstrated further its capacity, when the GOK took the decision to
expand the geographical scope of the project to all districts in Kerala, in managing
successfully this limited scaling up. More importantly, GOK decided recently to entrust
to KRWSA the responsibility to implement all new single village rural water supply
schemes as well as act as the facilitator for the transfer of KWA schemes to GP and BGs.

2.      KRWSA demonstrated outstanding capacity in monitoring and evaluating
project achievement including: (i) progress monitoring (Physical, Financial and
Milestones); (ii) process monitoring; (iii) water quality monitoring; (iv) Construction
Quality Monitoring; and (v) Sustainability / Impact Evaluation, financed under this sub-
component. Presently, all monitoring and evaluation information is available on the
official website of KRWSA namely www.jalanidhi.com.

3.      High level of achievement has been reached in the sanitation and hygiene
promotion component. KRWSA has done systematic implementation of various
software and hardware solutions to achieve this objective at the Gram Panchayats level.
A total of 2.765 training sessions were conducted. Overall 362,176 person days trainings
were given. In addition, in order to ensure the quality of drinking water and to avert the
threat of water pollution, the project has invested a lot of resources on sanitation. The
major focus area is the prevention of biological contamination by construction of sanitary
latrines and conversion of unsanitary latrines to sanitary latrines.         A number of
dissemination of IEC materials at inter-personnel level and mass media level was
developed. As a result of project efforts, sanitation coverage in the project GPs increased
from 76 percent to 86 percent. In addition, 85 over 112 GPs have received the Nirmal
Gram Puraskar for achieving 100 percent household latrine coverage.



                                              21

4.      The overall strategy in capacity development has enabled the development of
sufficient social capital at the programme and grassroots level in the State of Kerala
to sustain the demand driven, decentralized service delivery model in water and
sanitation sector, within the overall framework of a cascading model. Capacity building
included the following programs: (i) System assessment and identification of capacity
building needs; (ii) Community Orientation programmes on the Operations and
Management; (iii) Technical Training to Operators; (iv) Finance and accounting training
to the Accountants; and (v) Management inputs to BGs and SLEC and Gram Panchayat
Members.

5.      The Training Division has published and brought out a few books / manuals,
including the following: (i) O&M Manual for Small Water Supply Schemes; (ii) Log
Book- For Small Water Supply Schemes; (iii) Log Book for Large Water Supply
Schemes (Raw Water Pumping); (iv) Log Book for Large Water Supply Schemes (Clear
Water Pumping); (v) Draft O&M Manual for Scheme LWSS- Sholayur Gravity Scheme;
and (vi) GP Strengthening.

6.      The project has strengthened successfully GPs capacity and financed the
following activities: (i) Expenditure of two contract staff for two years to provide
technical assistance for project management and accounting activities and for their
training; (ii) small scale upgrading of GP office infrastructure / building; (iii) purchase of
office equipment including a computer/fax etc.; (iv) Small assistance to the Panchayat to
undertake innovative schemes; and (v) Training and exposure visits to Panchayat board
members.

Efficiency

7.      The total outflow under Component A is US$10.23 million, which is 101 percent
of the appraisal target. Out of the total amount spent under this component, 69 percent
has been spent for the operation of KRWSA. This accounted for 12.27 percent of the total
project expenditure.

COMPONENT B. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
BUILDING:

Key Outputs:

8.      Almost all community development as well as physical PAD target has been
exceeded. The tables below present the comparison between appraisal estimates and the
actual outputs.




                                            22

                                                          PAD              Percent of the
           Community Development              Unit       target   Actual     PAD target

 WDI
 BGs with women in Executive Posts           percent       90       100      111 percent
 Community Development & Engineering
 Support
 GPs selected                                 No.          80       110      137 percent
 No. of Implementation Phase Tripartite                                      142 percent
 Agreement (IPTA)s signed                     No.          80       114
 No. of BGs Registered.                       No.         2350     5052      215 percent
 No of Implementation Phase Quadrilateral                                    165 percent
 Agreement (IPQA) signed (other than KWA/GP
 Sch.)                                        No.         2000     3311
 No. of Implementation Phase Quadrilateral                                   200 percent
 Agreement (IPQA) signed (KWA & GP Sch.)      No.         200       401




 Infrastructures Building

 Item                                         Units       PAD               percent of the
                                                         target    Actual    PAD target
 Small Water Supply Schemes                   Nos         2500     3689      148 percent

 Comprehensive Schemes                        Nos          6         9       150 percent

 New Latrine                                  Nos        40000     68023     170 percent

 Latrine conversion                           Nos         8000     24194     302 percent

 Comprehensive Ground Water Recharge          GPs          0        33

 Ground Water Recharge - Point recharge       BGs         562      1013      180 percent


 Environmental Management Plan Works          Nos        26667     89319     335 percent

 Drainage                                     Mtrs       178000    68362     38 percent

 Rain Water Harvesting structures             Nos         1500     13304     887 percent


9.      The over-achievement of component B has the following main reasons. First, the
average population served by water supply schemes was lower that anticipated (42
households par scheme against 100 at appraisal). The smaller size and lower cost of the
schemes constructed allowed the project to construct about 1200 additional water supply
schemes, including 6 larger water supply schemes and the Tsunami affected area scheme.
Second, the fact the project assigned equal weight to building up the community's
awareness on sanitation and hygiene contributed directly to stimulate the demand for new
latrine or latrine conversion. Third, source sustainability has emerged as a serious issue
over the last years in some GP identified as "difficult areas" which show a drop in ground
water levels and face acute drought during peak summer. As the results, a greater number
of water resources management mitigation measures have been implemented. Finally,



                                            23

GOK launched a very successful state-wide campaign for promotion of Rain Water
Harvesting (RWH) in June 2004. Training on RWH was given to 700 masons and 350
Engineers from Govt. Depts. in the state. IEC campaign, workshops, exhibitions, etc.
were initiated in all the districts. Statewide mass-media publicity campaign was initiated.
In total, more than 10,000 people were sensitized directly on rain water
harvesting/ground water recharge.

10.     At the end of the project, the situation is the following: out of the 3712
schemes taken up under the project in 112 GPs, 3698 water supply schemes have already
been completed and communities empowered for its operation and maintenance. In the
remaining 14 schemes: (i) 7 are small schemes in which all works have been completed
and are pending for commissioning due to KSEB problem / social issues; (ii) 6 are
comprehensive schemes still in the implementation phase; and (iii) one is the Tsunami
rehabilitation water supply scheme (Chawara and Panmana GP) for which work is
progressing well and it is expected to complete and commission the scheme by April
2009. About 329,637 households, i.e.1, 880,000 people are going to benefit from the
water supply and sanitation schemes constructed under the project, when all the 7
remaining schemes will be completed.

11.     The average cost per scheme is US$ 12.777. Average household cost / water
supply scheme US$306 or about US$ 60 per capita, which compares favorably with
international standard. The average household contribution towards capital cost is US$ 46
based on cost analysis of 3164 earlier commissioned schemes other than rehabilitation
schemes spread across all batches. The actual O&M cost per household per month ranges
from US$ 0.1 to 1.33 depending on the type of scheme and the average O&M cost per
household per month comes to Rs.31 (US$ 0.69).

Quality of inputs:

12.     Quality of works was satisfactory. Projects infrastructure were implemented by
the community largely through community contracting with the supervision and support
from Support Organizations. However, quality of construction was further ensured by a
3rd party inspection, with KRWSA entrusting highly qualified and experienced Agencies
in WATSAN field on National wide advertisement. Agencies were required to instruct
SO / BG people at site itself to take action if needed. In case of serious matters requiring
immediate attention, the DPMU was notified. Otherwise all the findings were included in
the monthly reports to KRWSA. The follow up actions were regularly monitored by
DPMU through concerned project engineers and periodically reviewed by the Project
Manager. CQM agencies are also attending factory inspections for testing of pipes in
addition to the field pressure test.

13.     Water Quality was properly addressed under the project. However, fields'
evidence shows that beneficiaries are still boiling water for drinking. Bacteriological
contamination mitigation measures included proper waste disposal, correct location of
well, appropriate design and construction, proper disinfect ion and a systematic
monitoring of the quality of water. While the first three issues are taken care of in the
planning, design and construction stage, proper disinfections practices are to be continued



                                              24

as long as the system is in operation. The PAD envisaged disinfections using simple
bleaching powder dozes along with systematic community based water quality
monitoring. This is further motivated by awareness programs linking health and
sanitation under sanitation and hygiene promotion programs. Even though every effort
has been made to implement the program according to the design, the community
response to disinfection and water quality monitoring was not very encouraging. The
house holds disinfections by boiling is strongly advocated and is common practice, which
is compensating the lower levels of chlorination.

14.     Excess in turbidity, pH, iron, fluoride and bacteriological contamination
were found in schemes and remedial measures were taken, including: (i) addition of
lime to increase pH; (ii) providing filtering media and construction of IRP with PSF in
the case of removal of turbidity and excess iron contest; (iii) Silver Ionization Plants,
Chlorine dozers, addition of bleaching powder solution in the case of removal of
bacteriological contamination; and (iv) domestic defluoridation units for the removal of
excess fluoride contamination. KRWSA procured field test kits to some of the schemes
and conducted training classes on water quality monitoring to enable the BGs to use the
kits in analysis of water quality parameters. In the case of large water supply schemes
pressure sand filter and IRP were provided in order to overcome the turbidity and excess
iron of water considering the season's changes.

Efficiency

15.     The overall expenditure under Component B is US$ 73 million, i.e. 116.4 percent
of the Appraisal estimate (US$ 62.70 million).

COMPONENT C: STATEWIDE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT

16.     The main objective of the component C was to formulate a long term sector
policy and strategic plan ­ which has been fully achieved. GOK carried out extensive
sector work and formulated a long term sector policy and strategic plan. The Water and
Sanitation Sector Status Report of June 2005, financed by WSP-SA provided key inputs
to larger water sector policy adopted by GOK in 2008. The development of a statewide
sector information management system (SIMS) was done only on a pilot scale since the
main sector institution KWA was not supportive of the project and was only marginally
associated with project implementation almost till the project closing ­ when it joined the
project for implementing large WSS in Tsunami affected area.

Key Output

17.     Even though very few have been financed under Component C, key achievements
have been reached by GOK in relation to the development of a long term sector policy,
including the following:

    · Development and ratification of the water sector policy adopted by GOK in 2008.




                                            25

   · Proposal to keep KRWSA functioning (irrespective of external support) under the
       revised guidelines from GOI for demand driven decentralized service delivery
       projects;
   · Utilizing KRWSA support for policy development under Management of
       Government Program (MGP);
   · Decision to appoint an agency to implement handing over/rehabilitation of single
       panchayat schemes based on the action plan prepared by the study conducted by
       KRWSA;
   · Constitution of RWH cell in KRWSA and Launching of RWH campaign in the
       State;
   · Launching of people's movement for water conservation;
   · Completion of the sector study and preparation draft MOU to be signed with GOI;
   · Extension of TSC to all districts in Kerala;
   · Setting up of CCDU (linked to KRWSA) for strengthening watsan sector;
   · Initiation of massive campaign for pollution free surface water;
   · Restrictions on sand mining and increased regulation powers to revenue and
       panchayat authorities;
   · Strengthening school sanitation through Sarva Shikshha Abhiyan (SSA) in all
       districts of Kerala.

The overall expenditure under Component C is US$ 0.04 million, i.e. 3.3 percent of the
Appraisal estimate (US$ 1.20 million).

COMPONENT D: NATIONAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT

18.    This component never took off and then was closed at mid-term review. The
overall expenditure under Component D is US$ 0.05 million, i.e. 2.5 percent of the
Appraisal estimate (US$ 2 million).




                                          26

                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      Comparing Estimates and Assumptions. Making use of household data collected
for 23 water supply schemes, the economic appraisal estimated that (a) about 1.37 hours,
on average, are spent on water collection to meet household needs (this figure can be
further broken down by type of scheme and district); (b) the burden of water collection
falls disproportionately on women, i.e. about two-thirds of all cases; and (c) the average
daily consumption of water is 64 liter per capita at the start of the project.

2.      The appraisal analysis assumed that (a) 70 percent of the households would opt
for private connection, while the remainder would choose a stand post; (b) 90 percent of
the time spent collecting water could be saved when choosing a private connection versus
75 percent of time to be saved when collecting water from a nearer stand post; (c) the
value of the opportunity cost for time saved from avoided water collection was 57 Rupees
daily or 7.13 Rupees per hour, derived from discounting the daily wage for unskilled
labor (Rs.122.5 for men and Rs.71.4 for women in 1999) by availability of work,
irrespective of whether increased time is converted to productive uses, leisure or other;
(d) consumption of water would be increased from 64 to 70 liter per capita, as per the
project's design parameters; (e) cost for O&M would be, on average, 31 Rupees per
month (being, incidentally very close to the average observed O&M cost of 33 Rupees
per household per month, but lower than households actual contribution to O&M, which
is 46 Rupees per month); (f) average incremental water consumption is an average of
actual costs of supply (derived from the present values of time savings and incremental
consumption benefits per liter) and the future cost of supply (derived from the total cost
of provision, including O&M, per liter); and finally (g) the salvage value after 20 years of
operation of the systems amounts to 5 percent of the capital cost.

3.      The ICR economic analysis followed closely this methodology, using the baseline
estimates on time savings and consumption as benchmark, replacing estimated or
assumed parameters with observed ones, and deviating slightly from some of the
assumptions, where there was either a potential for improvement or where data
limitations did not allow for another approach. The respective indicators for both
appraisal and completion analysis are outline in the table 3.1 below, followed by a brief
explanation when different parameters were computed.

4.      Table 3.1: Assumptions and Estimates underlying the Appraisal and
Implementation Completion Analyses

Indicator                               Appraisal                    Completion
Water Consumption at Baseline           64.2 lpcd                    64.2 lpcd
Water Consumption after the Project     70 lpcd                      70 lpcd
Time Spent at Baseline                  1.37 hours                   1.37 hours
Time Savings after the Project          1.17 hours                   1.0 hour
Opportunity Cost of Time                Rp.57 per day                Rp. 44.48 per day1
Incremental Consumption Benefits        Rp 0.013/liter               Rp 0.004/liter
O&M cost                                Rp. 31/hh/month              Rp. 46/hh/month2
Salvage Value of Schemes                5percent of capital cost     5percent of capital cost
Time Horizon                            20 years after project       20 years after project



                                             27

                                                 completion                      completion
Population Growth                                1.5 percent up to design        1.5 percent up to design
Standard Conversion Factor                       0.9                             0.9
Included Cost                                    Capital Cost of WS              Capital Cost of WS
                                                 Watershed Protection            Watershed Protection +
                                                                                 Environmental Management
                                                                                 Plans
                                                 Institution Building            Institution Building
                                                 O&M                             O&M
                                                 Software Component              Training + Social
                                                                                 Mobilization
Included Benefits                                Time Savings                    Time Savings
                                                 Incremental Consumption         Incremental Consumption
                                                 Salvage                         Salvage
                                                 Avoided O&M Cost of
                                                 Existing Systems
Sources: 1 http://labourbureau.nic.in/WRI-2003-04percent20Exepercent20Summary.htm
         2 Although actual O&M expenditure are with Rs.33/hh/month more in line with the appraisal estimate


5.       Two key constraints of the ICR analysis were that the monitoring system of the
project does not deliver actual water consumption or the time avoided for collecting
water. In fairness, integrating such monitoring indicators into any M&E system requires a
complex and costly household survey to be repeated at completion, in which neither
indicator is easily observable, especially in the absence of metering in the case of the
consumption parameter. However, implementation results of the project indicate that
almost all households chose a private connection suggesting an elimination of the time
spent collecting water from a distanced source. Although one may argue that this could
mean all time spent for water collection is now eliminated, the ICR analysis remains on
the conservative side, assuming that householders will still need to spend some time for
water handling, if only for storing water due to intermittent supply. While there is no
systematic data collection on the hours of water supply available to households, anecdotal
evidence suggest it may be as low as only 4 hours in some communities.

6.       Two minor constraints in the analysis were how to treat existing systems that have
been rehabilitated and how to differentiate the benefits between different water supply
system options, i.e. piped, well or other. In order to reduce the complexity of the analysis
and for lack of detail on the latter (and, at times, no information on either), systems were
treated the same with simple average computations.

7.       In addition, the reason why incremental water consumption is computed
differently to the appraisal analysis is that, even if erring on the conservative side,
households are currently paying approximately 0.004 Rupees per liter, based on the
average tariff of 46 Rupees per household per month and the average household size of
5.5 people. Since this ICRR analysis assumes households to fully reap the benefits of the
now 70 liters per capita per day of water available to them as per the project's design, it is
only consistent to assume the incremental value to be equal to what households pay for
that consumption (though the welfare benefits may be significantly higher,
notwithstanding the decreasing returns from the incremental consumption of an
additional liter of water).




                                                      28

8.       Lastly, it required some finesse to model population growth increase while not
overstating the benefits, when systems are assumed to become non-operational after 20
years. Other than in the computations at appraisal that assumed a 1.5 percent growth rate
until 20 years after the first system has become operational and then assumed zero growth,
the ICRR analysis deducted the number of beneficiary households from the total
(included their assumed growth in number over the years) 20 years after water systems
have become operational, leaving only the salvage value of 5 percent. One may also
argue that including population growth, in the first place, in such analysis may overstate
the benefits since connecting additional households, even if there is sufficient capacity in
the water production system, will come at additional connection cost not assessed here.
Among other parameters, the sensitivity analysis estimates a scenario of zero population
growth to verify the robustness of this and other assumptions.

9.       All cost and benefit streams were converted in 2000 Indian Rupees, to replicate
the perspective at the start of the economic appraisal of the project.

10.      Findings. Before assessing the robustness of the results mentioned above, it is
worthwhile investigating whether the project did observe significant deviations per water
scheme with respect to investments spent per household. This is generally a useful
monitoring tool to identify excess expenditure or economies of scale, both may be
explicable after further investigation. As one can see from graph 3.1 only very few
outliers, in terms of the total cost spent on a village scheme per household, can be
observed from the existing data. There are some economies of scale that suggest that
about 5 Rupees per household can be saved if adding an additional household in the
water scheme, but these are small compared to the average, more than 4 thousand Rupees
of cost per each household for providing this level of service.

Graph 3.1. Capital Cost of Rural Water Scheme per Household
(in Million Indian Rupees)

    70

    60

    50

    40

    30

    20

    10

   -
         0        1000       2000      3000     4000       5000       6000

                                Households



11.      Though limited data is available on time saved and time spent, a sample
household survey that was not used for the computation of the ERR because of its small


                                             29

sample size of only 27 households, yields that the time saved per household was
approximately 1.65 hours per day (thus exceeding the appraisal estimate of time spent)
and it suggests that almost 80 percent of poorer households (poverty status judged by
appearance) have benefited from reduced time spent on collecting water. The same
survey also reveals that about 26 percent of poorer households spent part of their saved
time for work, compared to only 5 percent of better-of households. Because of only 20
percent of the observed households taking on work after saving time collecting water, the
opportunity cost of time savings were revisited adopting the lowest unskilled women
labor wage applicable to Kerala (as shown in the table above). However, the value of
activities women increase their time on in lieu of water collection should not be
discounted, and it is difficult to assume a value any lesser than the lowest unskilled labor
cost for activities that may result in better health, feeding, improved schooling or overly
improved well-being. The distribution of spent time is displayed in graph 3.2 below,
distinguishing perceived poor and non-poor households.

   Graph 3.2. Spending Time Saved From Avoided Water Collection
   (in Minutes, by Type of Activity and Household Wealth)

   50
   45
   40
   35
   30
   25
   20                                                                  low income
   15                                                                  high income
   10
    5
    0
           work     recreation, preparation  sleep      other
                   rest, taking   of food
                       food



12.     Sensitivity Analysis. A robustness check on the estimates of key parameters was
carried out, suggesting that the economic rate of return changes mostly, and significantly,
with changes in the projected benefits from saved time for water collection. This is not
surprising since this indicator is the major benefit assessed for the implementation of the
project. All things equal, only if saved time is assessed at half of the value projected now
­ i.e. even below the baseline estimate ­ the ERR would equal the assumed discount rate
of 12 percent and the net present value of the investment would become zero.

13.     If one iterates time savings estimates with other parameters, like consumption, the
value of incremental consumption, population growth assumptions or opportunity cost,
the following values for the ERR emerge, as displayed in table 3.2 below.




                                              30

Table 3.2: Sensitivity Analysis on Key Project Implementation Parameters
Baseline ERR Estimate                    Time Savings
                                         1.0 hours/hh/day  0.8 hours/hh/day 0.66
                                                                            hours/hh/day
Consumption at Completion
70.0 lpcd                                18.7percent       14.7percent      12.0percent
64.2 lpcd                                18.2percent       14.2percent      11.4percent
60.0 lpcd                                17.9percent       13.8percent      11.0percent
Value of Incremental Consumption
0.004 Rupees/liter                       18.7percent       14.7percent      12.0percent
0.002 Rupees/liter                       18.5percent       14.5percent      11.7percent
0 Rupees/liter                           18.2percent       14.2percent      11.4percent
Population Growth
1.2 percent                              18.7percent       14.7percent      12.0percent
0.5 percent                              18.3percent       14.3percent      11.5percent
0 percent                                18.0percent       14.0percent      11.2percent
Opportunity Cost of Time
5 Rupees per hour                        18.7percent       14.7percent      12.0percent
4 Rupees per hour                        14.7percent       11.3percent      8.9percent
3 Rupees per hour                        10.4percent       7.6percent       5.6percent
2 Rupees per hour                        5.5percent        3.3percent       1.7percent


14.     The shaded areas outline the benchmark estimate of the ERR of this ICR analysis
against variations of different assumptions. As one can see from the table above, there is
only little sensitivity to changes in parameters other than time saved for water collection
and the opportunity cost of time. If both time savings and opportunity cost of time are
lowered significantly, the ERR would become lower than 12 percent and the net present
value of the project would become negative. However, the question is whether these
decreases in values are likely, given the already conservative assumptions adopted for the
analysis.

15.     As with all economic analyses, the benefits assessed always remain incomplete.
Benefits from water investments are at times difficult to quantify as they do require solid
household data for understanding the time savings, consumption and household storage
patterns in the presence of intermittent supply, or they require epidemiological data to
trace health improvements back to project investments. The case of the water investments
reviewed above is no different. While further increases in assessed benefits on time
savings may be feasible by reducing intermittency in supply, this would come at a higher
maintenance cost, thus reducing other consumption by households. Reducing
intermittency of supply may also increase health benefits, as additional handling of water
for storage may increase contamination, but again at the trade-off of higher maintenance
cost. Whether these benefits outweigh the cost and whether households are willing to pay
for better service is ultimately an empirical question that is not being examined further in
this ICRR.




                                             31

     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                         Title                Unit Responsibility/
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
G.V. Abhyankar       Task Team Leader                       SASDU
Parameswaran Iyer     India Team Leader                     ETWSA
Meera Mehta           Sr. Urban Specialist (Consultant)     SASDU
P C Mohan            Chair, SA                              WBG-SA
S. Rajagopal         Consultant                             SASDA
D. Maruthi Mohan     Consultant                             SASDU
Ava Shreshtha         Consultant
Meena Munshi         Sr. Economist                          SASDA
S. Satish            Senior Social Development Specialist   SASDI
R.R. Mohan           Senior Social Development Specialist   SASDI
T.C. Jain             Senior Agriculturist
Smita Misra           Sr. Economist                         SASDU
D. Ahluwalia          Sr. Economist                         SASDA
S. Vani               Lead Financial Management Specialist  OPCFM

S. Krishnan           Senior Procurement Specialist
                      (Consultant)                          SARPS

S. Santhakumar       Operations Analyst                     SACIN
Kirsten Hommann       Economist                             SASDU
Jacqueline Julian     Senior Program Assistant              SASDO

Supervision/ICR
G.V. Abhyankar        Task Team Leader till 07/31/2007      SASDU

Mam Chand             Senior Procurement Specialist
                      (Consultant)                          SARPS

Priti Jain            Procurement Specialist                SARPS
Atul Bhalchandra
Deshpande             Financial Management Specialist       SARFM

Santhanam Krishnan    Senior Procurement Specialist
                      (Consultant)                          SARPS

Manvinder Mamak      Senior Financial Management Specialist SARFM
D. Maruthi Mohan     Consultant                             SASDU
Ramachandran R. Mohan Senior Social Development Specialist  SASDI
Meera Mehta           Consultant                            ETWAF
Smita Misra           Sr. Economist                         SASDU
Suryanarayan Satish   Senior Social Development Spec        SASDI
Oscar E. Alvarado     Task Team Leader from 08/01/2007      SASDU
Shivendra Kumar       Procurement Specialist (Procurement)  SARPS
Kirsten Hommann       Economist (ICR)                       SASDU
Christophe Prevost   Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist      ETWSA
Mamata Baruah         Program Assistant                     SASDO
Michelle Chen        Program Assistant                      SASDO


                                           32

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                        No. of staff weeks    US$ Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98*                                          0                        5.03
  FY99*                                          0                       44.62
  FY00                                        105.84                    246.10
  FY01                                         29.74                     90.73

Total:                                       135.52                    386.48
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                         12.49                     20.91
  FY02                                         25.47                     37.71
  FY03                                         29.42                     52.72
  FY04                                         33.16                     74.82
  FY05                                         35.85                     92.81
  FY06                                         27.91                     75.60
  FY07                                         24.74                     70.56
 FY08                                          11.50                     71.46
 FY 09                                         19.69                    109.84

 606.43
Total:                                        385.49                    606.43
    * Information not available in SAP




                                            33

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

               N/A




                34

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                     N/A




                      35

        Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                   Project Evaluation Report

                     Kerala Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Agency
Project Details
Name of the Project       : Kerala Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project (Jalanidhi)
Project ID                : P055454,       Area of Operation    : State wide
Project Implementation Period: 2000 ­ 2006, extended to September 2008


Project Finance Data
Project Outlay: US$ 65.5 Million Rs.451 Cr. revised at MTR to Rs. 381.5 Cr.
Terms: Standard Credit, Grace Period:       10 Years, Years to Maturity: 35 years


Fund Flow Details (Rs. in Cr.)                                 Actual Received up to Sept'08 (Rs. Crores)
GOK Pre- Finance Sanctioned                                    310.00
GP                                                              27.12
Communities                                                     53.20
TOTAL                                                          390.32
Total Amount expended in the Project till the end of Sept'08   Rs. 368.62 Cr.
Reimbursement claimed from World Bank                          Rs. 267.82 Cr.
Reimbursement received from GOI as ACA                         Rs. 240.92 Cr
Outstanding Claims pending reimbursement                       Rs. 26.90 Cr


1.    Consolidated Physical Achievement as on end of September'08

Demography
Gram Panchayats (GPs) targeted                                                    80
GPs covered                                                                       112
Tribal GPs covered                                                                10
Households participating for water supply schemes                                 1.93 lakhs
Benefitting population (water supply schemes)                                     11. 28 lakhs
Percentage of participating BPL Households                                        52percent
Percentage of participating SC/ST households                                      16percent
Total number of households covered by the completed schemes                       1.67 lakhs
Total Beneficiaries covered (Completed schemes)                                   9.95 lakhs
Participating NGOs                                                                51

Water Supply
No of Beneficiary Groups (BGs) implementing Water Supply Schemes                  4099
Total Water Supply Schemes started                                                3712
Total Water Supply Schemes commissioned                                           3698
KWA schemes handed over for rehabilitation                                        174
KWA schemes rehabilitated                                                         95
Tsunami rehabilitation Water Supply scheme                                        1
GP schemes rehabilitated                                                          253
Schemes provided to Schools/Anganwadies                                           175




                                                   36

Other Components
 Total latrines constructed                                              68023
 Total deep pit latrines converted as sanitary latrines                  24199
 Length of drainage constructed                                          68 km
 Soak/compost pit constructed                                            89319
 GP level comprehensive GWR activities                                   33 GPs
 BGs implemented Ground Water Recharge (GWR)                             1013 BGs
 RWH units constructed under the project                                 13304
 Multi BG schemes started                                                15
 Multi BG schemes completed                                              9

Cost Analysis
 Annual O&M collection by BGs at the end of project (Approx)             Rs.7 crores
 Cost per KL (operating cost)                                            Rs. 3/-
 Average O&M cost per month/HHs                                          Rs. 31.45/-
 Average scheme cost                                                     Rs.5.75 lakhs
 Average household cost per water supply scheme                          Rs.13783
 Average household contribution per water supply scheme                  Rs.2067

2.      Development Objectives

The overall project development objective was to assist Government of Kerala in
improving the quality of rural water supply and environmental sanitation (RWSS) service
delivery to achieve sustainability of investments. Specific project development objectives
were: (a) demonstrate the viability of cost recovery and institutional reforms by
developing, testing and implementing the new decentralized service delivery model on a
pilot basis; and (b) build the state's capacity in improved sector management in order to
scale up the new model state wide.

2.1     Achievements on Development Objectives

2.1.1. Jalanidhi project was able to achieve its development objectives by successfully
testing and implementing          (a) the cost recovery reforms and new decentralized service
delivery model in the 112 GPs; (b) 348 existing single panchayat water supply schemes
in the project GPs owned by Kerala Water Authority (KWA) and/or GPs were taken
over, rehabilitated and managed by beneficiary groups (BGs); (c) operation and
maintenance (O&M) of 3712 water supply schemes are fully managed by BGs with their
own funds in the project GPs; and (d) sanitation and hygiene behavior of the 112 project
GPs have significantly improved. (85 Jalanidhi GPs have received Nirmal Gram Puraskar
for achieving 100percent household latrine coverage). All the 5 rounds of sustainability
evaluation studies conducted so far indicated the fact that more than 90percent of the
commissioned Jalanidhi schemes were technically, financially and institutionally
sustainable and the people of rural Kerala were capable of successfully operating and
maintaining the schemes owned by them.

2.1.2. Jalanidhi project was first experimented in 5 GPs of Malappuram, Palakkad,
Thrissur and Calicut districts. After the successful implementation of 135 schemes in
those panchayats, the project was scaled up to another 87 GPs (2785 schemes) of the


                                                      37

same districts against the PAD target of 80 GPs (2500 schemes). During the Mid Term
Review of the project, it was found that the project was achieving its targets, with no
compromise on quality, at a lower cost than estimated earlier. Based on the reworked
budget, it was decided to scale- up this approach in other districts of Kerala on
experimental basis. Accordingly 2 GPs each were selected in all the 9 districts of Kerala
and successfully implemented 926 schemes, thus enhanced the project coverage to 110
GPs.

3.      Project achievements

3.1.    Coverage: Experimenting in 4 districts initially was scaled up to all districts of
Kerala except one to achieve a coverage of 110 GPs through 3712 schemes in different
batches .Besides 2 GPs of Kollam districts were also included to implement Tsunami
rehabilitation water supply project under a joint venture program of KWA and KRWSA
on community based participatory model. Thus Jalanidhi Project has covered 112 GPs
through 122 projects of which 10 were tribal projects.

3.2.    Decentralization:     Kerala has been one of the most successful states in
implementing the 73rd and 74th amendment and devolving responsibilities to the lowest
tier of the Local Self Government Institutions- the gram panchayats. This project has
successfully carried out decentralization a step further by forming cluster groups of
communities needing water and willing to be a part of the project through legally
registered bodies called the Beneficiary Groups (BGs) in partnership with GPs. There
were 4099 active registered BGs in Jalanidhi with an average membership of 42 families
per group.

3.3.    Community Ownership: Proof of willingness to participate, accept and own the
scheme was validated by the willingness of the community to share the financial costs.
Out of the total project funding of Rs.390.32 crores mobilized as on end of Sept'08,
Rs.53.2 crores (14 percent) have come as Community Contribution and Rs. 27.12 crores
(7 percent) from the GPs. Even the tribal, who hitherto have only received free service,
have accepted the change in thinking and contributed Rs.83.6 lakhs in cash and labor
towards capital cost contribution. This has been considered as an effective means of
"ownership" and a commitment for the maintenance of the assets created under the
project for the Beneficiaries.

3.4.    O&M Management: 100 percent of the O & M expenses are being met by the
community with no subsidies either from the local self govt. institutions or the state Govt.
At an average of Rs.31.45 per family per month, the total O M expenses to be met by the
community annually would be approximately Rs.7 crores. BGs bearing full O&M cost
means revenue gain for the State Govt. & GP thus, enabling GPs to venture new
developmental activities with the savings so achieved to the exchequer and has been
going on for years now. Thus Jalanidhi schemes unlike other water supply schemes are
no more a burden on the Public Exchequer.

3.5.    Equity: The myth that "the poor will be marginalized from such a project" was
proved wrong by extending the project benefit to about 52percent of BPL families against



                                           38

the state BPL population of 36percent. Besides 16percent of the Jalanidhi beneficiaries
were from SC / ST families which are another good indication of the inclusion of poor in
the project. Apart from this, there are 10 tribal panchayats in Jalanidhi project. This is
probably the only project where tribes had paid their beneficiary contribution well in time
for the implementation of the scheme. There are 162 functional schemes in the tribal
areas covering a population of about 35,000.

3.6.    Community Contracting: The community contracting and transparency in the
project execution had resulted in 10- 15 percent cost savings. It has also been proved
wrong that the involvement of neither educated nor technically qualified local people
have affected the quality of scheme, but, on the contrary, majority of the schemes have
been completed well in time with superior quality standards.

3.7     Strengthening of GPs: The Jalanidhi Project has also earmarked an amount of
Rs.10 lakhs per panchayats for the overall strengthening of the Local self Government
through capacity building, Provision of computers, Exposure visits to GP members,
modernizing the panchayat building and overall development of their resource centre etc.
GPs representatives (President/Secretary) have appreciated the inclusion of these
components in the project during a State wide workshop attended by GP representatives.

3.8     Pre & Post Coverage: Pre & Post project water supply and sanitation coverage
in Jalanidhi Gram Panchayats are shown below

                     Water Supply                              Sanitation
        Pre Coverage       Post Coverage       Pre Coverage    Post Coverage
            55percent           81percent         76percent             86percent

      · Time saved per day due to availability of water at door step through Jalanidhi
         schemes has been arrived at 48190 man days (average time saved per
         household per day has been 2 hours) which is as good as generating 178 Cr
         yearly by considering Rs.100/- as man-day cost.
      · Jalanidhi water supply schemes produce potable quality of water approximately
         at Rs.3/kilo liter, which is one third of the rate at which other supply driven
         programs produce water in the state.
      · Capacity Building was the corner stone of Jalanidhi Project. KRWSA has
         followed the "cascade effect"- found to create local knowledge centers,
         economic viability and maximum reach.

4.      Project Benefits

4.1.    The project is directly benefitting 1.8 million people in the rural areas of the
thirteen districts of Kerala. Communities in project villages, especially women
particularly the poor and the vulnerable, has been benefitted from an improved and
sustainable water supply and environmental sanitation services through time savings in
collecting water, better health benefits from more and cleaner water and improved
sanitation and hygiene practices etc.




                                              39

4.2.     GPs participating in the project benefitted from the GP strengthening component,
increased generation of internal resources from the beneficiaries and full O & M burden
shouldering by the beneficiaries. The GPs were also benefitted from the local social asset
creation made possible through the strong capacity building component of the project.
The increased demand /opportunities to provide efficient support services and setting up
supply chains to the local communities; demands for materials for the scheme etc. have
benefitted NGOs and private sector business group.

                                                                                Households       People
                                                                                actually         actually
                                                                                benefitted /     benefitted /
                                                                                estimated        estimated
 Sl.No                          Components                             Units    beneficiaries    beneficiaries
     1   Water supply schemes
                                                        Completed      3698         166686           995088
               Work in progress (small + LWSS+Tsunami project)          14          26074            132522
                                                         Sub total      3712        192760          1127610
     2   Latrines
                  **New Latrines constructed(inside+outside BG)        68023        68023            374127
                    **Latrine conversion done(inside+outside BG)      24194         24194            133067
                                                         Sub total    92217         92217            507194
         Environment Management Units like soak pits, compost
     3   pits etc                                                     89319         44660            245627
                                                      Grand Total                   329637          1880430
                                                                         Population covered
 ** new latrine/latrine conversion done inside BG                38318                 210749
  **new latrine/latrine conversion done outside BG               53899                 296445
                                                                 92217                  507194
 Note: 1. In addition to the above 68 Kilometers of Drainage was constructed so far in Jalanidhi
 project panchayats benefitting the beneficiaries on source protection, water quality preservation etc..




 Beneficiary group level trainings                            7,72,267man days
 Beneficiary group level orientation                          7,08,300 man days
 GP level / support organization level trainings              32,962 man days

4.3.     12 lakhs people who were trained at the community level, in various aspects,
apart from the 6 Community Facilitators engaged per GP who were all from the local
community. The social assets created by this project will be the intangible benefits which
will act as catalysts and tools for community and social development in the coming years.
All the pump operators were members of the BGs thus with 2 operators trained per BG,
jobs for at least 3700 operators at one per BG have been created. Apart from this there
were women trained as masons, plumbers etc. who become income generators of the
Panchayat population.

4.4.     The most valuable benefit for the elected representatives of the Panchayat was
the good will created and the improvement in their individual credibility. All the elected
representatives of BG groups who were in the initial batch had been reelected with clear
majority in the next election.


                                                    40

4.5.     The improved institutional capacity helped Government of Kerala to facilitate
and scale- up community driven decentralized RWSS service delivery in the whole State.
The State's financial management was also helped due to lower scheme costs when built
by the community, capital cost sharing by the beneficiaries and the local self
government. The community owning the full responsibility of the O & M reduced the
State's recurring budgetary expenditure under this head.

5.      Institutional building and Project support

5.1.     PMU : The Project Management Unit has actively involved, supported and
monitored the project and was blended with various expertise in the field of
operational ,technical , social and finance for the same. Involvement and interventions of
PMU to solve the issues during project implementation even at grass root level, whenever
the situation demanded was something unique in this project.

5.2.     DPMUs: The DPMUs had the mandate to involve and support implementation
of the project progress on a day-to-day basis. All efforts at maintaining the maximum
freedom of decision-making at the appropriate lowest level were ensured. Innovation,
leading, learning by doing were encouraged. There were 9 DPMUs to cater the project
implementation in 112 GPs.

5.3.     Supporting Organizations: The Supporting organizations (NGOs-51 /Gram
panchayat Action Teams-6) which were in the project have dispelled many a myth with
respect to the availability of Quality NGOs in the State. NGOs were encouraged to
specialize in Watsan issues due to the opportunities in the KRWSA project. Among the
112 GPs where there has been prolonged SO/GPAT involvement, more than 2000 young
professionals had practical exposure on Watsan sector whose potential could be availed
even for future technical assistance for GPs and other projects.

5.4.     Beneficiary Groups: The BGs have proved to be the most vibrant mass base of
the project. Consolidated on a need basis these registered legal entities (Ayalkkoottams)
have formed a democratic governance point for Watsan issues at the lowest level. They
had emerged as a user base for decision making on project related issues and their
willingness to translate the learning into valid lessons for self development which helped
them in future. The empowerment, participation and awareness brought in by the
institutions of BGs were balancing and were relieving the burden of the GP, since they
have trained partners in the sector to fall back upon.

5.5.     Gram Panchayats: The magnanimity of GPs and members in encouraging the
development of beneficiary groups to meet and shoulder their need for one of the
essentials of life-water- was a great achievement through this project. GPs provided
adequate support and guidance for successful completion of project.

5.6.     LSGD/KSEB/KWA/Other Departments: The open and generous attitude of
the sister departments and other institution of Govt. of Kerala towards the new model-
Jalanidhi- approach had been very encouraging without which the implementation could



                                              41

not have been so successful. The readiness to attend/address implementation/post
implementation issues indicates the continued support for the model.

5.7.    Panchayat Project Assistants (PPAs): The vacuum created of its own between
Gram Panchayats and DPMUs especially for transferring of data information between
Gram Panchayats and DPMU/PMU and also for maintenance of project accounts at GP
level, an inter phase in the form of PPA was introduced and found very effective.
Another creation of job opportunities at GP level for localities!

5.8.    CQM: Independent Construction Quality Monitoring consultants were engaged
for proper and timely ensuring quality of construction and service during the pace of
implementation.

5.9.    Technical Innovations:-During the course of implementation of the scheme
several technological innovations have taken place to meet the local needs of the project
of which few have been generated in the project, such as, Introduction of Chlorine dozer
to reduce human errors in chlorination-simple technology with a compact model costing
Rs.1000/unit , Orifice to regulate flow of water which ensured equitable distribution of
water, Robotic equity-avoid unequal distribution & uninterrupted supply hitherto ensures,
timely pumping of water, maintains adequate level of water in the tank and introduction
of PVC junction box resulted in cost reduction of two pit latrines.

5.10.   Experts Contribution: Technology and Managerial contribution towards
Ground Water Recharge, Water Quality maintenance and financial management from
CWRDM, IIM, NGRI, KWA, RITES etc was very helpful for the project.

5.11.   Operational contribution: The professionalism of the operations wing
especially in coordinating activities has excelled all the expectations. The foresight in
anticipating problems and developing remedies on the part of operations wing was one of
the major contributory factors in achieving greater results.

6.     Bank's performance

6.1.    Lending: The reasonable terms of lending by the bank helped the GOK to
improve the quality of rural water supply and sanitation delivery system in selected
panchayats of Kerala through the Jalanidhi project. The preparation team from the Bank
with experts from various related sectors having vast experience could successfully blend
that with the decentralized planning program in Kerala for the formation of a balanced
project. The sustainability of investments which was aimed from the beginning of the
project was also materialized. This experiment in WATSAN sector with partial capital
cost sharing and hundred percentage O&M cost met by the community was found
successful. Project identification process initially brought out crucial sector issues as well
as protests from various stake holders but, could contain all such issues and made the
project principles to be accepted by the community and others. The project which started
on a pilot basis in 5 panchayats of 4 districts initially was scaled up to the whole of state
on experimental basis at the behest of Bank on the request of GOK by extending to 110
panchayats for utilizing the balance funds estimated at the time of Mid term review.



                                             42

Further during the lending period, Bank agreed to take up Tsunami rehabilitation water
supply projects in 2 coastal panchayats of Kollam district with the joint participation of
KWA and Jalanidhi, a unique venture in Kerala, thus throwing opportunity to develop a
new model in the sector. The World Bank mission team also was agreeable to extend the
project period from December `06 to September `08 for implementing the Tsunami
rehabilitation project along with other progressing schemes.

6.2     Supervision: The Bank conducted 17 supervision missions during the period of
project implementation mainly under the leadership of Mr.G.V.Abhyankar, Senior
Sanitary Engineer with a team of experts, comprising Dr. S.Satish, Dr. D.M.Mohan, Mr.
R.R.Mohan, Mr. Atul Deshpande, Mr. Shivendra Kumar, Mr. Mamchand, Mr. Krishnan,
and Ms. Mamak etc.

6.3     In each mission the bank team closely monitored the progress by conducting field
visits and interacting with all stake holders. The resultant aide memoires, detailing the
agreed actions with GOK helped the agency to complete the project on a time bound
basis. Thus the team was very much committed to see that the time bound project
achieved its targets and goals as set out in the project appraisal document. On all vital
issues, concurrence of the bank on solutions received expeditiously. Further the
continuity of the core bank team through out the span of project implementation actually
helped the project a lot in its stability and smooth Going. The enthusiasm shown by the
team to discuss any and all matters in detail with the BGs and other stake holders were
commendable.

6.4     The deliberations, discussions, seminars and workshops conducted during the
supervision mission with different stake holders were really productive. Bank had
stipulated clean guidelines through their project appraisal document for the selection of
Jalanidhi GPs as well as NGOs. Further they had given clear targets for all other
components to be achieved and thus helped the agency.

6.5     Throughout the planning and implementation phase, Bank helped to sort out
execution problems, in a bilateral basis after discussing the issues with senior officials of
KRWSA as well as at Government level so that there were mutual trust and coordination.

6.6     Bank has taken keen interest in the independent sustainability evaluation exercise
of the project and helped the agency to frame the terms of references. The proactive role
played by the team leader and each member of the team in supervising the various
activities can be described as excellent. For example large number of Government Orders
and circulars were issued by GOK based on their comments and discussions with other
stake holders for the effective implementation of the project. The bank's timely
reimbursement of claims helped GOK for the smooth fund flow of the project.

6.7     The courtesy and co-operation extended by the Bank to the GOK was really worth
mentioning.




                                              43

7.      Overall performance of Bank

The overall performance of the bank is rated as excellent.

8.      Borrower Performance

a.      During Preparation
Jalanidhi project was a unique project in Kerala since it aimed at a bold and courageous
turn from the conventional approaches. Though challenges and difficulties were
envisaged in acceptance and implementation of the project philosophy by social/political
sections the borrower had managed the situations with its long term vision of the
sector .The project was prepared with active cooperation and participation of key stake
holders including LSG department along with the bank team. Again the confidence on
project acceptance by the community in terms of partial capital cost sharing and full
O&M was another bold decision that was conceived in the project. The ownership by the
community was a remarkable shift in the WATSAN history of Kerala for making the
project a sustainable one. During strategy preparation care was taken to integrate water
supply activities along with other related components like GWR, Sanitation, Capacity
building, WDI etc, indeed a welcome attempt!

At the preparation stage itself, provisions were made to include the economically weaker
section in the project by lowering the beneficiary contribution rate and also by cross
subsidization. The project clearly developed agreements that has to be signed between the
different stake holders and clear guidelines were issued on the roles and responsibilities
of each stake holder, scheme cycle, funding pattern for the project, procurement rules,
purchase of land, estimate preparation and registration of BGs etc

b.      During Implementation

(i)     Performance of Government of Kerala
The Government of Kerala has initiated reforms as part of a well designed and coherent
development strategy much before the advent of the Jalanidhi project. In line with the
development objectives of the World Bank funded Rural Water Supply project and the
reform process at the national level, the Govt. of Kerala was also initiating policies and
programs to improve service level, ensure sustainability of investment and effective
management of water resource as an economic good. The much acclaimed "Olavanna
model" which was a trendsetter in community based, participatory service delivery model
started in one of the project districts of Kozhikode in the mid eighties.

GOK has largely followed the Govt. of India's policies and priorities for its RWS
schemes. Until recently in Kerala the, drinking water services have been the sole
responsibility of the KWA, a statutory agency set up in 1986.                Since 1997,
decentralization received a major boost in Kerala through devolution of over a third of
the state plan funds to local authorities as "untied Grams". The main features of
decentralization comprise transfer of functions and staff to local authorities, financial
allocation through statutory and formula based transfers a participatory and rational local




                                              44

level planning process to ensure appropriate and equitable utilization of funds. It aims to
be flexible while ensuring accountability and transparency in the process.

The Water and Sanitation sector in the state was substantially strengthened from the
lessons learned including those of community participatory schemes through
development and announcement of a comprehensive and holistic water policy in 2008 for
the state.

The following events summarize the key sector development in the Water and Sanitation
segment undertaken by GOK.

a. (i) "Olavanna" Model with the community base, participatory, service delivery with
partial capital cost sharing and full O&M cost recovery was repeated in the Jalanidhi
project. (ii) About 1050 single Panchayat water supply schemes of the KWA was to be
handed over to the GPs concerned .In all Jalanidhi panchayats this transfer was made a
mandatory condition for executing agreement. (iii) State and District level Water &
Sanitation Mission was constituted by Government (iv) In 2004 Government of Kerala
had appointed KRWSA as the nodal agency for State-level coordination of the statewide
campaign for promotion of Rain Water Harvesting (RWH). (e) KRWSA was designated
as the nodal agency / secretariat for sector development in the State to kick-start the
reform initiative and to provide conceptual inputs, chart, guide, and monitor the reform
process. (f) Comprehensive water policy for the state of Kerala was enacted by the state
legislature in 2008.

b. The GOK has undertaken the responsibility to release funds in time through budget
provision for timely implementation of the project. In consideration of the BG's demand,
for the sustainability of the schemes, GOK issued an order reducing the electricity tariff
from commercial rate to domestic rate for Jalanidhi and other community owned schemes.

c. For the effective co-ordination of KRWSA, at the apex level GOK constituted a
General Body with Minister for Water Resources as President and a Governing Council
with Principle Secretary Water Resources as Chairman. These bodies effectively made
policy decisions in terms of anchoring the ongoing project and provided suitable support
like staffing, financing, linkages with other project etc. The GOK has thus accorded high
priority to the institutional strengthening.

d. The GOK has been positive towards the results shown by this pilot project as is
evidenced by the reforms model being accepted in the planning process for the water and
sanitation sector not only in the 10th and 11th five year planning exercise but also in the
"modernization of GOK programs". Inspiring from the success of this model GOK has
decided for a follow on project for Jalanidhi and accordingly submitted a proposal of
Rs.1200 crores to GOI for approval which has been duly recommended and forwarded to
World Bank for their consideration.

In the light of the above, the performance of GOK is rated as Excellent.




                                             45

(ii) Performance of KRWSA

The Government has created an autonomous institution "Kerala Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Agency (KRWSA)" which was registered on 17-11-1999 under Travancore
Cochin Literary, Scientific and Charitable Societies Registration Act 1955 (Act XII of
1955) with Registration No.T.1812 with enormous vested powers to Governing
Executive Council .

The Governing General Body with Hon'ble Minister for Water Resources as the
President along with representatives of Government Secretaries, NGOs, Panchayat
Presidents, Kerala Water Authority & Social Organizations in the water & sanitation
sector acts as the policy making forum.

The Governing council of KRWSA, a regular decision making body has been functioning
as an effective board overseeing the project implementation. During the period of 8 years
of existence the board met 29 times to take necessary policy decisions for effective
functioning and the meetings were all well attended.

The project had developed a unique institutional implementation arrangement where by
the requirements of carrying out a project dedicated vertical system, (PMU-DPMU),
ensuring the operational autonomy and functional decision making while maintaining
acceptable accountability standards for Government of Kerala, Government of India and
the World Bank.

KRWSA was mainly implementing the project by coordinating the activities of all the
stake holders namely SOs, GPs and BGs. KRWSA has developed an excellent MIS
system for monitoring the field level activities which has been well appraised by all stake
holders and World Bank has termed the MIS system as one of the best in the country in
the RWS sector. The Project finance Management team with a practicing Chartered
Accountant from Private Sector as the Finance Manager along with commerce graduate
assistants have been the strength for the smooth functioning of FMIS .Further the FMIS
system operationalized by KRWSA has been successfully monitoring the progress of the
financial management system of the project.

As the nodal agency for Rain water harvesting and sector development management for
the whole of the state "Rain Cell" was formed in KRWSA for effective implementation
of the scheme. Kollam and Kasargode sector reform projects were supported by KRWSA
by way of coordination, capacity building, and monitoring. An exclusive sector
development cell at PMU was set up to manage various State wide Sector development
activities effectively.

For taking the challenge of completing the project in time, output based payment system
for SO's performance was introduced. For ensuring Capacity building through various
trainings and other tools to all stake holders a separate cell namely Capcell was formed
under KRWSA. KRWSA has arranged independent Construction quality monitoring of
all schemes and independent Sustainability evaluation studies. KRWSA has taken active
role for the formation of BG federation in all panchayats for looking after the post



                                             46

operation monitoring. KRWSA had shown specific interest to prepare and issue large
number of booklets on various aspects like water quality, sanitation, KWA rehabilitation ,
accounting procedure, GP strengthening, GWR, Operation and maintenance for the
benefit of the communities. For large comprehensive schemes also KRWSA had
developed an independent accounting and managerial software for the benefit of the
community on O&M and technical cum operational manuals. As an alternate technology
option, KRWSA has successfully developed the model of the Rain water harvesting in
such areas where it was difficult to locate a source. 12percent of the total water supply
schemes of KRWSA are of Rain water harvesting schemes.

The sincere and committed attitude of KRWSA was very much                    appreciated and
complemented by all stake holders even to the extent that World Bank Jalanidhi team
could win the 1st Runner-up prize for Jalanidhi project from among all World Bank
projects globally.

In the above context, the implementation performance of KRWSA is rated as Exemplary.

(iii) Impact of implementation

The project had a meaningful impact in varying degrees on the rural water supply &
sanitation sector and related institutions in the state at different levels. The project had a
considerable impact on the change in life style of the rural people and their increased
capacity to tackle local issues. Jalanidhi has a purposive gender sensitivity built into it.
Women held at least one of the three major office bearer positions in BGs. This
responsibility has given a rare opportunity to understand about the dynamics of water
supply scheme and women were able to play meaningful roles in BG. There were several
examples across the Jalanidhi schemes where ordinary home maker women, who were
confined to their homes, have taken a responsibility in the Jalanidhi scheme and
subsequently got elected to the local GP. Jalanidhi has tremendously contributed to the
social capital enhancement and increased local awareness on water and sanitation. There
were a lot of behavioral changes in hygiene conduct of community as a whole. Jalanidhi
has given a push to the collective confidence of the community that it can plan and
implement programs that can solve problems, be it in water or sanitation. Also the
capacity of the Government and PRIs has improved and are even trying to replicate this
model in other developmental sectors like health, education etc.

9. Lessons Learnt

Institutional/Operational/Technical lessons
    (a) People can implement and manage community driven project and meet the O&M
        needs if properly trained and authorized to do so. The success here in water sector
        promotes entrusting such activities in other sectors of health, electricity, social
        welfare, tourism, irrigation, law and order (community policing) etc.
    (b) Capacitating women in shouldering responsibilities can develop leadership
        qualities among rural folks.
    (c) The empowered BGs at panchayat level were slowly emerging as units of " local
        body to tackle local issues". This in turn has triggered the panchayats to act



                                             47

        immediately on social issues since they were accountable to voting public. The
        lesson was that joint ownership of BGs and umbrella support by panchayat are
        key indicators for success.
    (d) Transparency and accountability can be ensured if stake holders are balanced
        through well defined powers.
    (e) Non Government Organizations-SOs is helpful/useful for project implementation
        but to overcome their limitations, Gram panchayat Action Team (GPAT) have
        been introduced.
    (f) For equitable distribution and prevention of water misuse, metering was helpful to
        the BGs and that was made part of the system based on the demand of
        beneficiaries.
    (g) Instead of small environmental units like soak pits, compost pits and vermin
        compost units a solid/liquid waste management system for the panchayat shall be
        a better proposition for future projects.
    (h) The method of "Cascading effect" experimented by KRWSA at GP/BG level in
        capacity building and information dissemination in the project was very
        successful.
    (i) To tackle water quality problems and to overcome the resistance on chlorine taste
        in water, silver ionization plants, iron removal plants, etc were provided as
        remedy.
    (j) Though O&M is owned by BGs it was felt necessary to extend GP level
        intervention to certain eventualities where BGs become helpless. An apex body
        "BG Federation" at GP level with GP President as the Chairman has been
        introduced in order to have support both institutional/financial in tackling
        intra/inter BG issues also so that the project is fully sustainable.
    (k) This project was aimed to cover small schemes on a pilot basis. But the
        communities have proved that they can take up very large projects exceeding
        1000 families and also run the O&M successfully in LWSS/CWSS.
    (l) Joint venture schemes have also been undertaken as in the Chawara-Panmana
        Tsunami rehabilitation project where KWA and KRWSA joined together. This
        model successfully progressing can also be replicated in other areas of
       developmental spectrum where large population was to be addressed together.
    (m)To combat the falling level of water table in Kerala massive GP level GWR
       activities are to be given utmost importance in future.

10. Hurdles / difficulties/Risks faced:

Frequent change of the Executive Director and other key staffs affected the smooth
functioning of the organization considerably. Majority of the staff members working in
KRWSA were recruited to the project on contract basis and due to uncertainty on the
continuity of the project, the project experienced high staff turnover resulted to
substantial delay in the completion of the project in time. Mild resistance from authorized
persons to exercise the delegated authority in handling and settling issues at times, have
unnecessarily delayed the execution process. Various Elections (Lok Sabha, State
Assembly, PRIs etc) held during the project implementation period has also affected the
project execution progress. Energisation by KSEB, pending arrears of KSEB for
settlement by KWA as well as GPs due to dearth of funds were the few difficulties faced.



                                              48

11. Looking forward

Since the project has achieved its goals in the pilot phase, Government of Kerala has
decided to extend this project to other panchayats of the state by formulating a follow on
project proposal which targets to cover 400 GPs with an estimated cost of Rs.1200 crores.
The project is expected to be implemented with World Bank assistance.

Post Operational Phase:- All the stake holders mainly GPs and BGs have established
their involvement and efficiency in managing schemes with adequate supply chain
support and are Going to be fully sustainable.

Government was very much impressed in the new paradigm shift demonstrated by the
Jalanidhi Project. The following actions initiated by the Government subsequent to the
closing of the first phase of Jalanidhi Project underline the above fact.

    1. Government has made sufficient budgetary provision for completing the
        remaining works and to continue the institutional set up even after the World
        Bank credit closing period.
    2. The Government has also committed to continue the new institutional set up
        developed by the Jalanidhi model and Jalanidhi approaches as it is evident from
        the recent GO issued by the Government appointing KRWSA as the
        implementing agency for the Swajaldhara model ARWSP sub components.
        Government has allocated 20percent of the ARWSP fund for implementing the
        same through KRWSA in the current financial year.

Thus looking forward Jalanidhi project has prompted GOK to scale up the project in a
significant manner to the whole of the state proving its effective impact in the water and
sanitation sector of Kerala.
                                                                                   Sd/-


K.Jayakumar IAS                                                             Additional

Chief Secretary (WR)


                                                                    Government of Kerala
08thDec'08




                                             49

Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                              N/A




                               50

                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

(i)    Project Implementation Plan
(ii)   Implementation Completion and Results Report and Final Implementation
       Support Mission Aide Memoire
(iii)  Project Appraisal Document for India: Kerala Rural Water Supply and
       Environmental Sanitation Project dated October 11, 2000 (Report No.21050-IN)
(iv)   Development     Credit  Agreement     and   Project   Agreement,  International
       Development Association dated January 4, 2001
(v)    Supervision / Implementation Support Mission Reports (Aide Memoires, Back-to-
       Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports)
(vi)   Project Quarterly and Progress Reports and Annual action Plans- KRWSA
(vii)  Report on Healthy Home survey-Batch II and III GPs
(viii) Project Completion Report ­ KRWSA- GOK, September 2008.
(ix)   Water Policy, 2008, Government of Kerala
(x)    Impact Assessment of Jalanidhi, Interim report, January 2008
(xi)   Review of Effectiveness of Rural Water Supply Schemes in India-The World
       Bank, June 2008.




                                          51

