Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER 22018
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant
Agreement
(Third Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-out Project)
among
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated March 4, 1998
OTF GRANT NUMBER 22018
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1998, among NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the 
Recipient), UNITED MEXICAN STATES and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
Page  2
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer 
(Montreal Protocol) to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer into the 
Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established a Facility, including the OTF, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound 
and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) the Parties to the Montreal Protocol have established the Multi-lateral 
Fund (Fund) for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol to operate under the authority of 
the said Parties to provide the financing of agreed incremental costs to enable the Parties 
operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the Montreal Protocol to comply with control 
measures provided for in the Montreal Protocol;
WHEREAS (C) the Executive Committee of the Fund (Executive Committee) and the 
Bank have entered into an agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which the Executive 
Committee has agreed to provide funds to the OTF to be administered by the Bank as Trustee in 
accordance with the provisions of the said agreement and the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient and the United Mexican States, having satisfied 
themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (at times also referred to as the OTF Grant Agreement), have requested assistance 
from the resources of the OTF in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has determined 
that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend a 
grant (the OTF Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
Page  3
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (except Section 6.02 (b)), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The Gen-eral Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the use of such term in Section 
5.01 (a) thereof, means the Trustee except that in Section 6.02, the term 
“Bank” shall also include the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Agreement;
(iv)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant;
(v)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Account;
(vi)
the term “Guarantee Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant Agreement;
(vii)
the term “Guarantor”, wherever used in the Gener-al Conditions, means 
the United Mexican States;
(viii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:  “Except 
as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.”;
Page  4
(ix)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (k) in Section 6.02, as 
follows:  “(l) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the OTF Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the OTF.”; and
(x)
the text of Section 6.03 of the General Conditions shall read as follows 
in its entirety:  “If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect to any 
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any 
time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an 
amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan 
during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) by the date specified in para-graph 7 of 
Sched-ule 4 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any 
portion of the Loan,
(i)
have received no appraisal reports under paragraph 7 of 
said Schedule, or
(ii)
have denied final approval to an Investment Project on 
the basis of such appraisal reports,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and to the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to submit such appraisal reports or to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to 
such amount or portion of the Loan.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“CFCs” means chlorofluorocarbons;
(b)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient out of the 
Page  5
proceeds of the OTF Grant to an Investment Enterprise for the carrying out of an Investment 
Project;
(c)
“Halons” means ODS (as hereinafter defined) such as Halon 1211 and Halon 
1301;
(d)
“INE” means the United Mexican States’ 
Instituto Nacional de Ecología
 
(National Ecology Institute);
(e)
“Investment Enterprise” means a Mexican producer, recycler or consumer of 
ODS (as hereinafter defined), to which the Recipient proposes to make a Grant;
(f)
“Investment Project” means a project designed to phase out the use of ODS (as 
hereinafter defined) in Mexico, to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise using the proceeds 
of a Grant;
(g)
“MCF” means methyl chloroform;
(h)
“ODS” means ozone depleting substances (such as CFCs, Halons and MCF, but 
only to the extent included in Groups I, II or III as defined in the Montreal Protocol);
(i)
“Project Operational Manual” means a manual, prepared by the Recipient and 
satisfactory to the Trustee, detailing specific terms, procedures and conditions for the carrying 
out of the Project (including Investment Project environmental impact avoidance and mitigation 
requirements);
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the OTF Grant in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirteen million Dollars ($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF 
Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee (including, if the 
Special Account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment).  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the Trustee 
Page  6
shall establish.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose of the Project from 
the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS clause (C) of the Preamble to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient and the United Mexican States declare their commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, the 
Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the 
Project Operational Manual and with appropriate administrative and financial practices, as well 
as with due regard to ecological and environ-mental factors, and the Recipient shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.  In 
case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Project Operational 
Manual, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.02. (a) The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, 
Grants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the Project Operational Manual.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations in relation to 
each Investment Project in such a manner as to:  (i) protect the interests of the Trustee, the 
Recipient and the United Mexican States; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; 
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the OTF Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused 
to be carried out, by the Recipient with respect to the Project.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall, throughout the course of the Project:  (a) submit 
reports to the Trustee and to INE, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, every six months, beginning 
with a report in June 1998, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project; (b) promote the 
identification of Investment Projects and their preparation by Investment Enterprises; (c) 
supervise execution of each Investment Project; (d) submit a completion report to the Trustee and 
to INE, in form satisfactory to the Trustee and prepared in collaboration with the relevant 
Investment Enterprise, within six months after the completion of each Investment Project, 
detailing the results achieved and lessons learned with respect to the completed Investment 
Project in question; and (e) participate with the Trustee in a mid-term review of the Project, to be 
held within twenty-four months after the Effective Date.
ARTICLE IV
Page  7
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures 
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the Trustee has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the OTF Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
(d)
The records and accounts maintained, or caused to be maintained, by the 
Recipient under paragraph (a) of this Section shall also be adequate to monitor and record the 
progress of each Investment Project, including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it.
ARTICLE V
Page  8
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The regulations or other documents governing the existence or operations of the 
Recipient shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the 
opinion of the Trustee, affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition 
of the Recipient or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under 
this Agreement.
(b)
The United Mexican States, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Recipient or for the suspension of 
the Recipient’s operations.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the OTF Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that:  (a) the Project Operational Manual shall have been finalized 
and formally issued by the Recipient; and (b) in addition to the required legal opinion on behalf 
of the Recipient, there be furnished to the Trustee, on behalf of the United Mexican States, a 
legal opinion satisfactory to the Trustee, of counsel acceptable to the Trustee, showing that the 
OTF Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the United Mexican States and is legally binding upon the United Mexican States in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date June 4, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the OTF Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section 7.01. The 
Director Internacional
 of the Recipient, and the 
Director General de 
Crédito Público
 of the United Mexican States’ 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
are 
designated as representatives of the Recipient and the United Mexican States, respectively, for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Dirección Internacional
Page  9
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre IV, piso 8
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address:
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City
For the United Mexican States:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313 - SHOCME
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
        248423 (MCI),
Washington, D.C.
          64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in México, 
D.F., United Mexican States, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Page  10
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Roberto Casillas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
OTF Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, works and
12,570,000
100%
services (including
consultant services),
financed by Grants
under Part B of the
Project, which
qualify as
incremental costs
(2)
Technical
50,000
100%
assistance under
Part A of the
Project
(3)
Recipient’s fee
250,000
100%
Page  11
(4)
Recipient’s travel,
130,000
100%
administration and
per diem 
costs
TOTAL
13,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:  (a) items financed by a Grant unless such Grant has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures 
incurred after December 31, 1993.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, if the Trustee shall have 
determined at any time that any payments from the OTF Grant Account were used for an 
expenditure not eligible for financing under this Schedule or used in any manner contrary to the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund 
to the Trustee, for deposit in the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof specified by the Trustee.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “incremental costs” means those costs (excluding import tariffs, duties 
or value-added taxes) deemed eligible for financing from the Fund, as set forth in the indicative 
list contained in the “Report of the Second Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on 
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer,” London, June 27-29, 1990 (UNEP/OzL. Pro. 2/3, 
Annex IV, pp. 42-44), reprinted as Bank Operational Policy 10.21, Annex B, of November 1993, 
as such list may be amended from time to time by the Executive Committee (approval by the 
Trustee of an Investment Project, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
signifies that the costs -- excluding import tariffs, duties or value-added taxes -- required to carry 
out said Investment Project are deemed “incremental costs” for purposes of this Schedule);
(b)
the term “Recipient’s fee” means an amount equal to 2.0% of each amount 
disbursed out of the OTF Grant Account (either through replenishment of the Special Account or 
through a disbursement directly to a supplier of goods, works or services for the Project) by the 
Trustee under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, such fee to be disbursed 
by the Trustee to the Recipient, simultaneously with each such disbursement under said Category 
(1), as compensation for the Recipient’s role as financial intermediary between the Trustee and 
the Investment Enterprises; and
(c)
the term “Recipient’s travel, administration and 
per diem
 costs” means travel, 
direct administration and 
per diem
 costs incurred by the Recipient in promoting OTF Grants, 
financing OTF Grants and monitoring the execution of Investment Projects (excluding technical 
assistance costs).
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 
equivalent (in the case of goods and works not subject to Trustee prior review pursuant to 
Page  12
Schedule 3, Section I, Part D.1 of this Agreement), less than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of 
consulting firms) and less than $50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants), all 
under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in phasing out ODS use in Mexico within the 
framework of the Montreal Protocol.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient, the United Mexican States and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Investment Project Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation, appraisal, administration and 
supervision of Investment Projects.
Part B
: ODS Phase-out Grant Line
Provision of financing, in the form of Grants, for carrying out Investment Projects. 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Page  13
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the United Mexican States.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Except for proprietary goods covered by Part C.1 of this Section, goods estimated to cost 
less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package may be procured by an 
Investment Enterprise under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Proprietary goods obtainable from only one source may, with the Trustee’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works required for the installation and commissioning of equipment (if such installation 
and commissioning are not covered by the price paid for the equipment), estimated to cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to each contract procured under Part B of this Section.
(b)
The following procedures shall apply to the first two contracts procured under 
either Part C.1 or Part C.3 of this Section, as well as to each contract procured under Part C.2 of 
this Section:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract by an 
Investment Enterprise under shopping procedures or under small works 
procurement procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Trustee a 
Page  14
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution by an Investment Enterprise of any contract 
procured under direct contracting or shopping procedures, the Recipient 
shall provide to the Trustee a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Technical assistance under Part A of the Project, to be provided by consultants selected 
and hired by the Recipient and estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Commercial Practices
Technical assistance, to be provided by consultants selected and hired by an Investment 
Enterprise in connection with the carrying out of an Investment Project, may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
Part C
:
Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants (for Part A of the Project) of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under Part A of the Project shall be 
furnished to the Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
for Part A of the Project shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have 
been approved by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  15
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Trustee for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.
(c)
No contract, either for consulting firms or for individual consultants, shall be 
awarded prior to Trustee approval of the terms of reference for such firms or consultants.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, 
that the terms of reference for such contract shall be subject to the Trustee’s prior review and 
approval.
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Grants
1.
(a)
Grants shall be made solely for Investment Projects.
(b)
Grants shall be denominated in Dollars.
(c)
Grants shall be in an amount up to 100% of the reasonable expenditures 
(excluding import tariffs, duties and value-added taxes) incurred by an Investment Enterprise in 
carrying out an Investment Project.  If a Grant is for less than 100% of such expenditures, the 
remainder of the funds needed to cover such expenditures shall be provided by the Investment 
Enterprise in question.  In all cases, the Investment Enterprise shall be responsible for payment, 
out of its own non-Grant proceeds, of said import tariffs, duties and value-added taxes.
2.
No expenditures for goods, works or services required for an Investment Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant unless the Investment Project shall 
have received preliminary approval from the Executive Committee pursuant to paragraph 6 of 
this Schedule, unless the Investment Project shall have also received final approval from the 
Trustee pursuant to paragraph 8 of this Schedule and unless the written contract referred to in 
paragraph 7 of this Schedule has been entered into by the Recipient and the Investment 
Enterprise.
3.
To obtain a Grant for an Investment Project, an Investment Enterprise shall:
(a)
with assistance from the Recipient if requested, carry out pre-investment studies 
Page  16
and prepare a project document and executive project summary for the Investment Project, all as 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual;
(b)
present said project document and executive project summary to the Recipient so 
that the Recipient may begin the process of seeking Executive Committee preliminary approval 
of the Investment Project; and
(c)
if said Executive Committee preliminary approval is granted pursuant to 
paragraph 6 of this Schedule, prepare an appraisal report for the Investment Project, as set forth 
in the Project Operational Manual, and present said appraisal report to the Recipient so that the 
Recipient may begin the process of seeking Trustee final approval of the Investment Project.
4.
Once in receipt of the project document and executive project summary from an 
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Recipient shall:
(a)
if the project document and executive project summary have been prepared as set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual, submit said documents to INE for approval; and
(b)
if INE approves the Investment Project pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Schedule, 
submit said documents to the Trustee for approval.
5.
Once in receipt of the project document and executive project summary from the 
Recipient for an Investment Project pursuant to paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule, INE shall 
approve the Investment Project if the Investment Project:  (a) complies with all relevant 
environmental laws and regulations; and (b) is consistent with the United Mexican States’ ODS 
phase-out policies.
6.
Once in receipt of the project document and executive project summary from the 
Recipient for an Investment Project pursuant to paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall, if the Investment Project appears to comply with eligibility criteria set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual, submit the project document and executive project summary to the 
Executive Committee for preliminary approval.
7.
Once in receipt of the appraisal report from the Investment Enterprise for an Investment 
Project pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of this Schedule, the Recipient shall submit to the Trustee 
said appraisal report and a draft written contract for the Grant containing the terms set forth in 
paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Schedule.
8.
If, on the basis of said appraisal report and draft written contract (and with the assistance 
of the Recipient), the Trustee determines that the implementation arrangements for carrying out 
the Investment Project are satisfactory and that the Investment Enterprise is capable, financially 
and administratively, of carrying out the Investment Project, the Trustee shall give its final 
approval of the Investment Project.
9.
Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, by written contract 
(satisfactory to the Trustee) with the Investment Enterprise, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Trustee, the Recipient and the United Mexican States, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project 
Page  17
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, environmental, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records and accounts;
(b)
require that:  (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in furtherance of 
the objectives of the Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee or the United 
Mexican States, if the Trustee or the United Mexican States shall so request, such goods and the 
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, 
and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that:  (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such 
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace 
or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Trustee shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment 
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project (including information 
required by the Recipient to permit compliance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement and with the 
prior review provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement);
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under 
its contract with the Recipient.
10.
The written contracts referred to in paragraph 9 of this Schedule shall also contain terms 
whereby:
(a)
the Investment Enterprise agrees to comply with all relevant Mexican local, State 
and federal environmental laws and regulations with respect to its activities, including with 
respect to the Investment Project;
(b)
the Investment Enterprise agrees to carry out all Investment Project 
environmental impact avoidance and mitigation measures required pursuant to the terms of the 
Project Operational Manual;
(c)
the Investment Enterprise agrees to not use on its own account, sell or otherwise 
transfer for use by another party any ODS-using equipment which is replaced or made redundant 
as a result of the Investment Project; and
(d)
the Investment Enterprise agrees to not resume use of ODS-using technology 
which is replaced or made redundant as a result of the Investment Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  18
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
OTF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the OTF Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Trustee the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Trustee from the OTF Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such documents and 
Page  19
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the OTF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee:  (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Trustee 
shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Page  20
Schedule shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
