Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12625
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2265-PNG)
DECEMBER 23, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US $1.0              =             276.625
CFAF 1 million       =             US $3,615
SDR 1.0              =             US $1.371
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCT          Agence Culturelle et de Cooperation Technique
AfDB          African Development Bank
BOAD          Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFD           Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
DE            Department of Energy
EdF           Electricite de France
ESIE          Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'Electricite
ESMAP         Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FNE           Fonds National de l'Energie
GOS           Government of Senegal
MDIA          Ministere du Developpment Industriel et de l'Artisanat
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR           Societe Africaine de Raffinage
SENELEC       Societe Nationale d'Electricite
TEP           Tonne Equivalent Petrole
UNDP          United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 23, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea
Road Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea - Road
Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG)" prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department III, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with the
Borrower providing Part II.
The project substantially met its physical investment objective,
albeit with some delay caused by inadequate project preparation.  Costs were
substantially higher than anticipated at appraisal.   The project's principal
institution building objective --establishment of an efficient road management
system-- was not realized.   Only a fraction --less than 10 percent-- of the
technical assistance and training foreseen at appraisal was actually engaged, and
that with considerable delay. Similarly, assistance to the local construction
industry, another institution building component included at appraisal, did not
come to fruition under the project. Instead, this is now being addressed under
the ongoing Transport Improvement Project (Loan 2742-PNG). The economic rate of
return (ERR) of the project is estimated at more than 10 percent --the same as
at appraisal-- for the Provincial roads and bridge components; and at eight to
20 percent for the National roads component -- slightly less than at appraisal.
Overall, the outcome is rated satisfactory. But its sustainability
is uncertain given the uncertainty of future maintenance funding in combination
with institutional weaknesses, particularly in the provinces. The institution
development impact is rated negligible.
The PCR is generally satisfactory. Its economic analysis, however,
is poor: no traffic counts were undertaken, the ERRs for the Provincial roads and
for the project's bridge component appear to be ex ante rather than ex post ERRs,
and the detailed information underlying the overall ERR estimates is missing.
The project may be audited.
Attaclement
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD MIPROVEMIENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2265-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Preface .....................,                                                     i
Evaluation Summary .i
PART T- PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity .1
2. Project Background .1
3. Project Objectives and Description  ........................   2
4. Project Design  ....................................   3
5. Project Implementation  ...............................   4
6. Project Results  ....................................   7
7. Project Sustainability  ................................   8
8. Bank Performance  ..................................   8
9. Borrower Performance  ...............................   9
10. Consulting Services .10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Provincial Roads Improvement .11
Improvement of National Highways .14
Consultant Services .14
Technical Assistance .15
Sunmnary .15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits .18
2. Project Timetable .20
3. Loan Disbursements .21
4. Project Implementation .22
5. Project Costs and Financing .23
6. Project Results .25
7. Status of Covenants .27
8. Use Of Bank Resources .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2265-PNG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion report (PCR) for the Road Improvement Project
in Papua New Guinea, for which Loan 2265-PNG in the amount of US$31.0 million was
approved on April 19, 1983. The loan was closed on June 30, 1992, following two
extensions to the original closing date of June 30, 1989. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was made on November 4, 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of Country
Department III of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and by the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was based on information contained in the Staff Appraisal
Report, Legal Documents, Supervision Reports, Consultants' Progress Reports,
Correspondence in Project Files, Internal Bank Memoranda and the findings of a Mission
to Papua New Guinea in November 1992.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2265-PNG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.          The project objectives were to (a) improve rural mobility through
implementation of a rehabilitation and improvement program for roads and bridges,
(b) improve road maintenance through the establishment of an efficient management system
and (c) assist in developing the domestic transport and construction industries. In addition,
the project was intended to help in establishing a strategy for transport sector development.
The project concept was innovative in that for the first time since the Bank's start of
highway operations in 1970, the Bank was directing its attention to roads other than the
trunk routes and to the strengthening of local government institutions (paras. 2.4 and 3.1).
Implementation Experience
2.          The provincial roads and national bridges programns were implemented
satisfactorily but civil works for the Highlands and Enga Highways did not commence on
schedule because of the time taken to carry out final engineering which was longer than
estimated. Delays in the commencement of works ranged from about 17 months for the
Enga Highway to about 30 months for the Kudjip-Minj section of the Highlands Highway
and 60 months for the Watabung-Chuave section. But once the works commenced, the
rate of progress was satisfactory. Land acquisition problems continued to affect some of
the roads and bridges. Despite the variety of procurement methods employed there were
only a few difficult problems (paras. 5.1-5.10).
3.          All the studies under the project were executed promptly after loan
effectiveness. The training component was delayed through lack of preparation and, due
to the very difficult procedures for hiring staff consultants, only a reduced technical
assistance component was eventually carried out. The assistance to the local contracting
industry is currently being undertaken in the Transport Improvement Project (Loan 2742-
PNG) and the Special Interventions project (Loan 3289-PNG) (para. 5.12).
Project Results
4.          In addition to the improvement of the Highland and Enga Highways, 261 km
of provincial roads were constructed, as compared to an appraisal plan of 277 kmn and



- iii -
1,230 m of national bridges compared to a plan of 1,517 m. The project's objective to
improve travel conditions on the rural roads and facilitate through traffic on the national
road network by the construction of bridges was achieved. The project has contributed
to the improvement of the road maintenance and management systems and the development
of a more efficient trucking industry. A transport development strategy that governs policy
and investment programs in the transport sector has been drafted iparas. 6.1 and 6.2).
5.           The road improvements confer immediate benefits to the highway users in
the form of lower vehicle operating costs and passenger time savings. Based on the
assumptions used at appraisal, the economic returns on the investments in the Enga
Highway and a section of the Highlands Highway are 19.6 and 8.0 percent, respectively,
compared to an appraisal estimate of 21.2 and 12.2 percent. This reflects the higher costs,
and lower than expected traffic at completion. From current experience, the rehabilitation
programs for the provincial roads and national bridges are expected to yield economic
returns in excess of 10 percent (para. 6.3).
Project Sustainability
6.           Although the maintenance budget for the national roads was cut sharply in
1990, maintenance continues to be satisfactory on the national roads and funding has been
rising, albeit, in modest amounts. There is, however, doubt about the ability of the
provincial governments to maintain satisfactorily the provincial roads because of the lack
of provincial capability to administer the roads and their dependence on central government
for technical assistance. While an attempt was made under the project to assist the
provinces through the central government agencies, the Transport Improvement Project
that followed did not address the matter of strengthening provincial capability. The risk
is very real that the provincial roads improved under the project may not be maintained
satisfactorily and that the project benefits may not be sustained (paras. 7.1 and 7.2).
Findings and Lessons learned
7.           The project achieved a major objective in continuing the improvement of the
600 km Highlands Highway to paved standards. The first attempt at implementing a
provincial roads program was also successful and several studies were accomplished that
will help planning of future investments. However, a lesson learned from the disruption
of the construction schedules for the Highlands and Enga Highways and increases in
construction costs is that detailed engineering for trunk roads should be completed during
the project preparation stage and not deferred to be carried out during project
implementation (paras. 4.4 and 5.1).
8.          The Government intends to produce and use standard bidding documents
based on the Bank's sample bidding documents in all future Bank-financed projects. It
may help in reducing the need for constant reference to the Bank for review. But, there
is an irreducible amount of time that will have to be expended by both Bank and
Government staff in dealing with referrals to the Bank for its comments and approvals of
procurement procedures and documents (para. 9.2).



- iv -
9.           Another lesson learned is the need to make a more thorough study of the
provincial institutions and to continue the start made in the project to develop the
provincial road networks so as to enable project benefits to be sustained. Finally, frequent
changes in Bank staffing tend to slow down project preparation and interrupt continuity
in sector dialogue with the Government (para. 8.2).






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IlPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2265-PNG)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Namne        Road Improvement Project
Loan Number          2265-PNG
Loan Amount          US$31.0 million
RVP Unit             East Asia and Pacific Region
Country              Papua New Guinea
Subsector            Transport
2.    Project Background
2.1         Unlike many developing countries in East Asia and the Pacific, Papua New
Guinea has a very small population (3.8 million) compared to its land area (461,700 km2).
It is endowed with abundant mineral and oil resources, good agricultural potential and
great natural beauty.  However, the country's history, adverse topography and low
education and skill levels have conspired to present it with formidable obstacles to
economic development. Papua New Guinea continues to be dependent on aid from a
variety of sources and on expatriates for the manning of public and private establishments
and undertakings. Local skills and capital are not available to exploit fully the country's
natural wealth.
2.2         The population is predominantly rural (85 percent) and much of the attention
of the Government since the late seventies has been directed at programs to improve the
quality of life in the rural areas. More importantly, the Government was taking steps to
strengthen local government administration and to decentralize much of the functions that
impinge directly on the lives of the rural people. The provision of adequate rural transport
facilities became an important component of the Government development strategy which
called for greater participation by the provincial governments in the administration of the
rural road networks and a capacity at provincial government levels to plan, construct and
maintain roads.
2.3         The Government's overall objective was to connect the widely scattered
pockets of population, principally along the Highlands Highway corridor, in order to



- 2 -
facilitate the marketing of agricultural produce and exportable crops such as copra, cocoa,
coffee and cardamon and thereby switch agriculture from a subsistence level to an income
earning activity. The linking of population centers would also have the effect of fostering
a sense of nationhood in a country of several hundred tribal groupings and dialects and
contribute to more efficient administration and effective delivery of government health,
education and agricultural extension services.
2.4          The project concept fitted in with Government policy to give priority to the
needs of the rural population and was a major shift from the approach of the three earlier
Bank-financed road projects which focused exclusively on improvements to sections of the
Highlands Highway. Some attention was paid to institutional issues in the Third Highway
Project (Loan 1856-PNG) but none in regard to the provincial road systems. The project
under review in this report was the fourth Bank-financed road project in Papua New
Guinea. The Bank decided to begin looking at the whole road network including the
provincial roads and at strengthening the local capability at central government and
provincial levels.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         Project Objectives. The project objectives were to: (a) improve rural
mobility through implementation of a rehabilitation and improvement program for roads
and bridges; (b) improve road maintenance through the establishment of an efficient
management system; and (c) assist in developing the domestic transport and construction
industries. In addition, the project was intended to help in establishing a strategy for
transport sector development which was expected to lead to policy action plans and
associated investment programs.
3.2          Project Description. The project consisted of:
(a)   the rehabilitation or improvement of about 15 provincial road segments
totaling approximately 277 km;
(b)   rehabilitation or replacement of about 32 bridges on national roads having
an estimated total length of 1,517 m;
(c)   improvement of two sections of the Highlands Highway (29 km) and the
first section of the Enga Highway (about 25 km);
(d)   consulting  services for feasibility  studies, detailed engineering  and
construction supervision, for transport policy studies and for the preparation
of a transport sector development plan and associated investment programs;
(e)   technical assistance to establish efficient procedures for transport sector
development functions in general and highway management and
administration in particular, and to assist in the development of the domestic
construction industry; and



- 3 -
(f)   training of highway maintenance personnel.
The project also included provisions for a study to investigate potential hydropower
resources.
4.    Project Design
4.1          From the outset the project was conceived by the Government and Bank as
a rural transport project and it led to the commissioning of consultants to undertake a study
to prepare investment packages for a selected number of provinces and to train provincial
staff in project identification and evaluation.  The consultants (Germany/UK) were
financed under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1856-PNG/Credit 1030-PNG). The study
involved the collaboration of several Government agencies-DTCA, Department of Works
and Supply (DWS), Department of Finance, National Planning Office, Provincial
administrations and Department of Agriculture-but the agencies were not able to provide
counterparts to work with the staff of the consultants. It was quickly realized by the Bank
that it would take a long time before the provinces could be staffed by local nationals. As
a result, the emphasis of the study shifted instead to improvement of project identification,
evaluation and ranking of priorities at the central government level in the DTCA and
DWS.
4.2          Five major issues were apparent during project appraisal: (a) project
preparation was still at the stage of preliminary studies and engineering and little had been
done to assess manpower needs particularly at the provincial level and to prepare a detailed
training program for implementation at central and provincial levels; (b) the funds
allocated in the lending program were not sufficient to cover the project costs; (c) the
Government was opposed to going to ICB for sections of the Highlands and Enga
Highways which it proposed to construct by project managed force account I/ (PMFA);
(d) acquisition of right-of-way had been a problem in earlier projects and a major cause
of cost overruns; and (e) there were concerns about Government compliance with
covenants relating to sectoral issues in the ongoing Third Highway Project. Only (b)
above was raised as an issue in the issues paper following the appraisal mission and the
decision memorandum recorded none. The other issues surfaced during reviews by senior
management and were the main topics of discussion at negotiations.
4.3          At negotiation a Bank loan amount of US$31.0 million was agreed and it
was proposed that the shortfall of about US$7.0 million would be provided by the Kuwaiti
Fund for Arab Economic Development Fund (KFAED). With regard to sector issues, the
Government agreed in a side-letter to: (a) reorganize the road maintenance administration;
(b) continue its review of transport user charges; and (c) evaluate the impact of modifying
the transport regulatory framework with a view to establishing an economic and efficient
transport system.
1/  PMFA is the execution of works by a departmental construction team  rnansged by a
contractor/DWS staff/consulting firm and supervised by another consulting firm. The team
operates like a contractor employed to execute works under a contract with the department.



- 4 -
4.4         In retrospect, there is little doubt that the timing of the appraisal was
premature in regard to the Highlands and Enga Highways and sufficient time was not
allowed for the completion of studies and final engineering in the project implementation
schedules. Moreover, as the project was intended to improve the capacity of the central
and provincial government agencies in planning, administration, and maintenance of the
national and provincial road networks, project preparation may have benefitted from an
assessment of manpower levels and the design of a structured training program  for
implementation under the project. The adoption of a program approach to the rehabilitation
of the provincial roads and national bridges enabled a degree of flexibility in adjustment
of the scope of the programs and in maximum utilization of loan funds. Unfortunately,
the provincial road program was not continued in the Transport Improvement Project
(Loan 2742-PNG) that followed and the focus of Bank lending reverted to national roads
and central government institutions.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         Overview. In the event, there were long delays of about 17 months and 30
months respectively in the commencement of construction of one section of the Highlands
Highway and the Enga Highway and nearly five years in the case of the KFAED-financed
section of the Highlands Highway. The construction costs exceeded appraisal estimates
by substantial amounts as a result of the delays and increased quantities following detailed
engineering. However, the total project cost in dollar terms was only slightly higher than
the appraisal estimate as a result of the decline in value of the local Kina vis-a-vis the
US Dollar.  As for technical assistance to DTCA  and DWS for management and
operations improvements, design improvements, road and bridge maintenance and
development of local contracting industry, the Bank underestimated the complexity and the
time required for selection and appointment of individual consultants in staff positions and
most of the appointments did not take place.
5.2          Provincial Roads and National Bridges Rehabilitation  Programs.
Implementation began immediately after loan effectiveness in October 1983 with civil
works on three of the roads included in the provincial roads rehabilitation and
improvement program and three of the bridges included in the bridges rehabilitation and
replacement program for which detailed engineering had been completed by consultants.
The programs were divided into three phases and the studies and final engineering for the
second and third phases were carried out by the DWS and consultants as civil works
progressed on the first phase. Projects selected for each phase had to have an ERR of at
least 10 percent.
5.3          The roadworks for the most part were carried out by force account with
some local contractors employed in haulage and earthworks and the bridge works by LCB
contracts. The start of civil works on many of the roads and bridges in the two programs
was about a year or more behind schedule because of delays in carrying out detailed
engineering and difficulties encountered in the acquisition of the right-of-way.  Land
acquisition problems continued to be an obstacle to progress but, overall, the delays were
compensated to some extent by faster construction.



5.4         In all, 261 km of provincial roads were constructed compared to an
appraisal plan of 277 km and 1,230 m of national bridges compared to a plan of 1,517 m.
The original programs were accomplished about a year behind appraisal schedule. Due
largely to price escalation, there was a 62 percent cost overrun in this component.
Construction of some of the provincial roads and national bridges were supervised by
DWS staff.
Improvement of Highlands and Enga Highways
5.5         Togoba-Tambul Road. This road is located in the Enga Province and is
a part of the road from Togoba to Wapenamanda for which feasibility studies and detailed
engineering had been completed at the time of appraisal. The road was divided into two
contracts so as to give better opportunity for local contractors and to enable construction
to commence on the road section for which the right-of-way had already been acquired.
However, there was a delay of about 17 months in the commencement of the civil works
for the first contract as a result of the need for additional materials investigations and
delays in bidding. The delay on the commencement of the second contract was even
longer because of slow progress on land acquisition and design adjustments to the road
alignment caused by an error in the setting out of the first contract.
5.6          By the time these problems had been resolved in 1986, the original
contractor prequalification which was carried out in 1983 had become outdated but after
a lengthy exchange of correspondence the Bank agreed to an update of the original
prequalified contractors and to advertising locally for a fresh prequalification. The final
road length constructed was 32.5 km, an increase of 7.5 km and the construction cost was
about K 348,700 per km, compared to an appraisal estimate of about K 241,280 per km,
an increase of about 44.5 percent due mainly to price escalation on the second contract
which did not commence until the end of 1987 and increase in quantities.
5.7         Kudjip-Minj Road. This road is located in Western Highlands Province
and is part of the Highlands Highway. Detailed engineering had not been carried out at
time of appraisal. There was substantial delay in the completion of detailed engineering
and bid evaluation was not completed until late February 1986. Further delay occurred
when the Government recommended the contract award to the second lowest evaluated
bidder because of poor performance by the lowest bidder on another Government contract
and the Bank could not approve the award. The contract was finally awarded to the lowest
evaluated bidder and signed in June 1986.
5.8         This 13 km section of the Highlands Highway was completed in six months,
about seven months ahead of the contract schedule, at a final cost of about K 246,800 per
km compared to an appraisal estimate of about K 176,900 per km, an increase of about
39.5 percent reflecting price escalation between 1983 and 1986 and increase in quantities.
5.9         Watabung-Chuave Road. This road is located in the Eastern Highlands
Province and is also part of the Highlands Highway. The feasibility study and preliminary
engineering was carried out by consultants during project implementation. This formed
the basis of an appraisal by KFAED but the loan agreement with KFAED was not effective



until January 1990. Detailed engineering was initially undertaken by DWS and later by
consultants who did the final review. Progress on the detailed engineering was made
difficult by objections from landowners to soils investigations on their lands and the
construction of the road was plagued by problems associated with land acquisition, crop
compensation and a breakdown of law and order.
5.10         After a delay of about five years, civil works construction began in late 1989
and was completed in September 1992. The works were carried out by PMFA at a cost
of about K 698,800 per kim compared to an appraisal estimate of K 312,500 per kim, an
increase of about 123 percent, due to price escalation and increase in quantities. The case
for Government's support of PMFA as opposed to ICB is not strengthened significantly
by the experience on the construction of this road. Firstly, the costs per km are much
higher than the costs per km of the other two roads in the Highlands and Enga Province
constructed by contract awarded under ICB even allowing for price escalation in the
intervening time. Secondly, PMFA costs may be generally understated in that all costs are
not properly accounted for particularly those relating to mobilization and demobilization
and suspension of works. PMFA has to face the law and order problem and is not
immune to attacks by the local tribesmen but, on the other hand, the attacks are less
intense and it allows for the use of a more flexible response by management. Also, this
road was completed while its contemporary, the Togoba-Ialibu Road (ICB contract
financed under Loan 2742-PNG) is virtually stalled. In addition, it should be borne in
mind that the Watabung-Chuave Road was one of the more difficult sections of the
Highlands Highway.
5.11         Technical Assistance and Training. In addition to consulting services for
feasibility studies, detailed engineering and construction supervision and preparation of
future projects, the project included provisions for consulting services to carry out a
number of policy studies and to furnish technical assistance and training to DTCA and
DWS staff. Five studies were undertaken by consultants originating from the countries
indicated: (a) Transport Investment Program (France); (b) Transport Data Base (New
Zealand); (c) Provincial Liaison Training (UK); (d) Transport Operations Policy (UK); and
(e) Boat Services Feasibility (New Zealand). The Transport Operations Policy Study
brought within the scope of a single exercise, the study of (a) airport user charges and
aviation pricing and cost recovery issues and (b) an investigation of the regulation of the
transport industries with reference to the road freight industry. Originally, these were
envisaged as separate studies in the appraisal report. The studies findings are being
implemented by the Government.
5.12         The studies were carried out satisfactorily and enabled the Government to
comply with the covenants in the loan agreement for the preceding Third Highway Project
calling for improvement in highway maintenance planning, levying of appropriate user
charges, opening up the trucking sector to nationals and moving towards an efficient
transport system including privatizing its freight and passenger and coastal shipping
services. While the studies were carried out satisfactorily as scheduled at appraisal, very
limited use was made of the technical assistance and training component. Although
attempts were made to recruit expatriate staff to work in the DTCA and DWS, they failed
chiefly because Government recruitment procedures were not adaptable easily to the



recruitment of individual consultants and enormous delays occurred in resolving the issues
they raised. The assistance to the local contracting industry is being carried out under the
ongoing Transport Improvement Project (Loan 2742-PNG) and the Special Interventions
Project (Loan 3289-PNG) with the establishment of a dedicated construction industry unit
in the Department of Trade and Industry. This unit was established because DOW had
demonstrated only limited interest in assisting the contracting industry.
5.13         Project Variations. There was no significant departure from the project
as appraised, not counting the reduction in the scope of the technical assistance component.
Also, near the end of the project, the Bank agreed to transfer payments of a few completed
items from Ln. 2742-PNG, so as to use up the funds remaining (US$2.6 million) in the
loan. This transfer was restricted to jointly (Ln. 2265/2742-PNG) financed items.
6.    Project Results
6.1         Project Objectives. The project's objective to improve travel conditions
on some of the rural roads and provide access to the trunk routes was achieved by the
accomplishment of the provincial road program.  Many of the national roads also
benefitted from the construction of bridges which are expected to facilitate through traffic.
The project has contributed to the improvement of the road maintenance and management
systems by organizing the systematic and routine collection and processing of transport -
data and training by consultants. The trucking industry is already showing evidence of
the impact of the relaxation of government controls with the movement towards larger
trucks. A transport development strategy that governs policy and investment programs in
the transport sector has been drafted and is being followed in practice.
6.2         Physical Results. The physical progress of the project varied from the
appraisal schedule as a result of the longer than anticipated time taken to complete final
engineering during project implementation and was interrupted in some instances by land
acquisition problems. But once civil works commenced, the rate of progress of the works
was satisfactory.
6.3         Impact of Project. While it is not feasible to deduce the impact, on the
country's economy, of the modest improvements of the transport system under the project,
the irnprovements confer immediate benefits to the highway users in the form of lower
operating costs and passenger time savings. With the increase in competition in trucking
likely to develop due to the easing up of the regulatory framework of the industry, it is
reasonable to expect that the lower transport costs will be translated into lower consumer
prices. The Government has neither provided updated traffic counts nor re-estimated the
ERR at project completion.  Hence, using revised costs and an estimated 20 percent
reduction of the traffic expected at appraisal, the Kudjip-Minj section of the Highlands
Highway improved under the project is expected to yield an overall economic return (ERR)
of 19.6 percent compared to an appraisal estimate of 21.2 percent and the Enga Highway
an ERR of 8.0 percent compared to an appraisal estimate of 12.2 percent. From current
experience, the rehabilitation program for the provincial roads and national bridges are
expected to yield an ERR in excess of 10 percent. The ERR for the Watabung-Chuave



- 8 -
section of the Highlands Highway was not available at appraisal, but it is a central link in
the highway and should have similar returns as adjacent sections (about 15 percent).
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1          The sustainability of project benefits, which accrue primarily to vehicle
operators as a result of improved road driving conditions, will depend on the ability of the
Government to maintain the improved road sections and to intervene in a timely manner
to strengthen the road pavement or otherwise improve the roads as traffic reaches threshold
limits. The planning and programming of national road maintenance has been largely
based on standard allocations for different classes of roads and the results of visual
inspection. Funding has been good except for 1990 when a big reduction was made, but
maintenance on the national roads has continued to be satisfactory. Overall, funding has
declined in real terms and funds are also not used efficiently because they are released on
a quarterly basis in amounts inconsistent with the actual maintenance needs during a
particular quarter. Weaknesses in planning and implementation also play a prominent role.
7.2          There is, however, doubt on the ability of the provincial governments to
maintain in good repair the provincial roads because of their limited institutional capacity.
The culture of the DWS staff has been to give more attention to the national roads for
which the staff has primary responsibility. While the project under review in this PCR
noted the weaknesses of the provincial institutions and made an attempt to assist them
through the central government agencies, the Transport Improvement Project that followed
did not address the matter of strengthening the provincial capability to administer
provincial road networks. The risk is very real that the provincial roads improved under
the project may not be maintained properly.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          The initial project brief was circulated in the Bank towards the end of 1979
when the preceding Third Highway Project was being readied for negotiations. Despite
the early initiative taken in launching the project, the project was not appraised until about
three years later and did not reach the Board until 15 months had elapsed. Even then the
project had not been fully prepared. Bank staff assigned to the project was constantly
changing during project preparation. There is no doubt that the focus of the project and
its complexion changed with all of the staff changes and the monitoring of progress on
project preparation suffered. Worse still, the start made in the project to develop the
provincial roads and address the question of strengthening the provincial institutions was
not continued in the Transport Improvement Project that followed.
8.2          The project achieved a major objective in completing the improvement of
the 600 km Highlands Highway to paved standards. The first attempts at implementing
a provincial road rehabilitation program were also successful and several studies were
accomplished that will help planning of future investments. However, some lessons may
be learnt from the experience in the project:



(a)   Bank appraisal should be scheduled only after evidence that project
preparation including detailed engineering would have been substantially
completed by that time;
(b)   the provincial roads study should have included more work on the
organization and management of the provincial institutions, an assessment
of manpower and recruitment and training needs and the design of a training
program for implementation under the project; and
(c)   frequent changes in Bank staff during project preparation seemed to slow
down project preparation and interrupt continuity in sector dialogue with the
Government.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1          The Government was reorganized during the project period with the DTCA
splitting into two departments, namely, Department of Transport (DOT) and Department
of Civil Aviation (DCA). The DWS relinquished its responsibility for supplies and
became the Department of Works (DOW). Although the reorganization has enabled DOT
and DOW to concentrate on their central functions, the divestment of DOT's planning role -
in civil aviation, which is now the exclusive responsibility of the new DCA, may have
resulted in less efficient transport coordination.
9.2          Except for the delays in submission of the annual audited project accounts,
the Government's overall performance has been satisfactory.   The two project
implementation agencies, DOT and DOW have generally understood and complied with
Bank requirements. Despite a large number of subprojects and a variety of procurement
methods, procurement has, for the most part, been free of serious problems. However,
the administration of procurement continues to take a heavy toll on staff time in
communicating with the Bank for its comments and approvals. The DOW's intention to
produce and use standard bidding documents based on the Bank's own sample bidding
documents may help in reducing the need for constant reference to the Bank for review.
But, there is an irreducible amount of time that has to be expended by both Bank and
Government staff in dealing with referrals to the Bank for its comments and approvals of
procurement procedures and documents.
9.3          Towards the end of the project, progress was also affected adversely by the
budgetary process. Basically, due to financial constraints, the Department of Finance and
Planning released funds to the executing agencies in inconsistent and inadequate amounts.
This effectively reduced the rate at which the project could be implemented. This situation
still prevails to a large extent in PNG but Government has promised to address it.



- 10 -
10.   Consulting Services
10.1         The consulting services under the project as implemented fall into three
categories: (a) feasibility studies and detailed engineering; (b) construction supervision; and
(c) various studies. The performance of the consultants who originated from Australia,
Britain, France and New Zealand was satisfactory.



- 11 -
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
This Project Completion Report is prepared on the basis of the Bank's "Guidelines for
Preparing Project Completion Reports". It is being prepared before Parts I and II are
received from the Bank. There is also no reference to Economic Rates of Return (ERR)
as it is understood that Department of Transport has written to advise the Bank that the
Data for preparation of ERRs are not available. It is also understood that a start has been
made by Departinent of Transport in the collection of such data but this will be a long
process and the information will not be available in time for finalization of this Loan.
The Loan Agreement was dated 29 April 1983. The original closing date was to have
been 30 June 1989. This was subsequently extended to 30 June 1991 and then to 30 June
1992.
For reasons that will be noted where appropriate through the report all funds had not been
expended as the closing date for the Loan approached. To enable funds to be applied to
the maximum extent possible the Bank was most co-operative and have its "no objection'
to certain project groups which are within the scope of both loan agreements and had been
completed and initially reimbursed under Loan 2742 to be transferred into Loan 2265.
This had the effect of enabling all funds under Loan 2265 to be applied and drawn down
and at the same time it partly restored capacity under Loan 2742 for new projects to be
introduced for completion within the remaining period of Loan 2742. In this regard it
must be noted that, at the time, it was confidently expected that Loan 2742 would be
extended for a further period of 12 months to enable such additional work to be done.
Advice from the Bank in this regard is at present anxiously awaited.
The Bank's injunction to make this document brief (Annex A, Part II, Clause 3) has been
noted. However the report does of necessity cover a very wide range of projects carried
out under a very wide range of conditions.
This report will briefly examine the implementation of projects in general under each of
the main categories, referring to particular aspects or problems which arose and the lessons
to be learnt from them.
The total amount of the Loan, US$31.0 million, has been fully drawn down.
The main categories of projects under the Loan were as follows -
A - PROVINCIAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT
Improvement of a total of approximately 261km (82%) of Provincial Roads was completed
out of a projected length of 318km. As would be expected those for which designs were
complete, where land matters had been resolved or which presented least difficulty were
completed earliest.



- 12 -
The works completed serve to improve communication and commerce in their areas either
by providing roads where possibly none existed previously or which were very
substandard, or by reconstruction of existing provincial roads so that they are less
vulnerable to the effects of adverse weather conditions than previously. By the nature of
their construction, the nature of the country that they traverse and the generally significant
wet periods in PNG, all of these roads present an ongoing maintenance requirement which
all provinces are not equally geared up to meet. From time to time, it has been necessary
to draw one or other Provincial Government's attention to the need for maintenance work
on a road previously improved under the Loan
Two projects cali for particular comment -
BUNDI ACCESS ROAD
This work was originally referred to in the Appraisal Report as the Bundi-Ua road for
which the appraisal estimate was K400,000 for a length of approximately 12 km. This
portion of the route was located on the southern side of the Imbrum River and
incorporation much of the old Ua Road. Because of concerns of construction and
maintenance costs on the southern side and the need to service a major cardamon
plantation on the northern side which was considered to have considerable export potential,
the route was switched to the northern side. Because of the greater length of new road,
estimated initially at 23km, the revised estimate for the work became K1.6 million. After
much consideration, work was commenced in March 1988. Part of the work was by Force
Account, part by Project Managed Force Account. These methods were selected as being
most flexible in the difficult terrain which was to be traversed. Detailed engineering was
prepared only for the bridge sites of which three were envisaged initially. Construction
in very steep side slope in broken to hard rock ground and rainforest did not proceed at
anywhere near the rate expected. After completing approximately 10 kilometres and two
bridges the cost had reached K2.437 million. Provision of funds in the National Budget
ran out in 1990 and work at the site stopped. The Bank subsequently insisted that detailed
engineering be provided for the rest of the work and that it be carried out by contract.
This detailed engineering is now being prepared under Loan No 2742. At this stage it
does appear that construction, when it does re-commence, will be loan funded.
MAI-TADJI ROAD
This road was not included in the original Appraisal Report. It was subsequently included
in Category IlId, (Road Links to be Identified).
Construction was by project managed force account. It was divided into three stages. The
first section completed traversed lightly undulating rainforest country with reasonable
proximity to coronous gravel. The second section ranged from the previous stage to
extensive swampland and then ascended into the foothills of the Torricelli Range with
designed maximum gradient of 19.9% and elevation up to approximately lOOm. The
third section commenced at the southern end and traversed steep undulating country with
some heavy timber until it also was to ascend the Torricelli Mountains. The swamp areas
required extensive rearend tipping of river gravel hauled in by truck This was slow and



- 13 -
expensive. As work into the Torricellis commenced it became clear that the grades
encountered were to be much steeper than expected. The whole Torricelli section was
covered with heavy rain forest on clayey ground with steep side slopes and unexpected
aquifers when isolated sections of calcareous rock were encountered. As these problems
were commencing, the Contractor's plant which had then been on the job for
approximately two years was becoming less reliable. It is believed that this was in part
the result of problems arising from the flow of National funds at various times when
payments to the plant contractor were delayed. When the work was commenced the design
consisted of a preliminary alignment and longitudinal section. The investigation consultant
referred to this as a preliminary alignment which would need to be refined when a final
survey was carried out. In the event it was proved that conditions were much more
adverse than believed when the work was commenced. Part of the problem was the severe
nature of the terrain over the central 12km of the 53km project, the whole of which was
generally inaccessible except for local village paths over some sections. A new alignment
over the missing section has been located but still needs considerable investigation. The
original estimate for the 53km originally intended was K3.499 million, work to date
(approx 33km, including construction of two bridges and purchase of the superstructure
for two others) has cost K3.309 million. The alternative route for the missing section is
expected to be 22km in length.
Both of these jobs indicate the need for satisfactory survey and a detailed knowledge of
the terrain even if a detailed design is not to be prepared. The difficulties of terrain,
weather, plant reliability, communication with remote areas should not be underestimated
and estimates for such work must be realistic. Over optimistic estimates not only cause
severe budgetting problems in the context of annual expenditures but may upset priorities
or the order in which projects should be undertaken, both on a national and provincial
level or may lead to work being undertaken on an economic basis which otherwise might
not be undertaken at least within the time span proposed. These projects also illustrated
the problems which can arise when only one contractor is approved in accordance with the
Bank's requirements as a source of hired plant to qualify the work for recoupment under
the Loan.
Yet even on these roads and particularly the Mai-Tadji road, which they have not been
completed as through routes, their construction thus far has led to opening up of new areas
to settlement, gardening and in the case of Mai-Tadji road, to local commercial timber
getting, mainly of sizes suitable for housing and small business accommodation.
B - BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
The appraisal report allowed for the construction of 17 bridges (including three river
training works) at an estimated cost of K2.8 million.  Two of the bridges (est cost
K315,000) were deleted and the remaining fifteen bridge works were completed for K2.84
million, an average increase of 14% for those works which were completed. Part III
provided for up to 15 further bridges for which K1.4 million was allowed; a total of 11
bridges and a total of nineteen culverts were actually constructed at a cost of K3.64 million
which being significantly later in the Loan period would have experienced some
inflationary effect. A total of 835m of bridges, three river training works and the nineteen



- 14 -
large culverts were constructed under the section covered by the original appraisal report.
Thirteen bridges totalling a further 396m in length plus three river training works and one
large culvert were subsequently transferred from loan 2742 with a cost of K2.561 million.
In the case of each new bridge and large culvert it can be claimed that the road network
has been significantly improved either by increased amenity, safety or reliability for road
users or by reducing the likelihood of interruption by flooding or washaways. While the
total expendiure under this loan was K9.044 million compared with K4.2m originally
allowed, it is considered that this has been a worthwhile investment in this country of very
high annual rainfalls in most areas. River training is a matter which still requires
considerable investigation. It is an activity on which considerable sums can be spent
sometimes to great effect, sometimes with considerable apparent effect until particular
occurrences render the work again ineffective. Major river training projects should only
be undertaken after considerable study, based on as long a history for the site as possible,
as well as of current trends and taking into account as wide and as likely a range of
solutions as possible.
IMPROVEMENT OF NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
(Highland and Enga Highways)
A 32.5km section of the Enga Highway (Appraisal Estimate 25km - K6.032 million)
between Togoba and Tambul was completed at a cost of K11.333 million over a period
of four years. As this was an average of four years after the preparation of the appraisal
estimate so that increased costs reflect an element of inflation as well as the effect of site
conditions.  The recent Bank Supervision Mission (November 1992) commented
favourably on the condition and maintenance of this section of the road.
A 13 km section of the Highlands Highway between Kudjip and Minj was completed for
a cost of K3.209 million (Appraisal Estimate K2.3 million). These costs also reflect some
inflation plus the effect of site conditions.
Construction of the Highlands Highway between Watabung and Chuave was financed by
the Kuwaiti Fund (KFAED) and was accordingly deleted from the Loan.
The reasonable costs experienced on these works indicate the benefits of carrying out the
work by contract when the extent and nature of the project can be adequately defined and
documented beforehand.
CONSULTANT SERVICES
A - ENGINEERING SERVICES FOR DEPARTMENT OF WORKS
One project was deleted and one transferred to Loan 2742. The remaining seven were
completed with direct application to then proposed future works, most of which have also
been completed. The benefits of these projects carried out by consultants selected by
procedures conforming to the Bank's requirements have therefore been obtained.



- 15 -
B - STUDIES FOR DCTA
All of the studies were completed, generally in accordance with the Appraisal Estimate.
C - STUDIES FOR WATER RESOURCES
This item was not included in the original appraisal but was included later with the Bank's
"no objection". Two studies were carried out at a cost of K1.059 million for the Bureau
of Water Resources as follows -
a) Hydropower Inventory: This study reflects the problems which arise when projects
proposed for inclusion in loans are not funded or are only partly funded in National
Budgets for the period when it was expected that a project might proceed. Instrumentation
was carried out at only about half of the proposed sites and the Bureau reported several
times on shortage of funds and of personnel to carry out field work. Such work as has
been done will be a useful basis for future work and application, particularly as the need
for augmented or new energy sources arises.
b) Flood Estimating Manual: This project was successfully completed, the Manual is
distributed and is applied in particular design situations. Approaches have been received
by the Bureau from several consultants for its agreement to incorporating aspects of the
Manual in design software.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The Appraisal Report allowed an amount of K1.43 million for this item, but expenditure
amounted to only K193,000. Some items were deleted, one was transferred to Loan 2742.
Because these generally do not lead directly to visible physical improvements their funding
and staff availability appear not always to receive priority. These items do require
significant staff input in preparation, but staff concerned is generally fully occupied with
matters of more immediate concern. Such items in future loans should be marked for
early consideration and allocation of appropriate resources.
SUMMARY
Based on experience with this Loan the following are matters that should be kept in mind
when a future loan is being considered -
* Only projects that can clearly be completed within the period of the loan should be
listed. For road and bridgework this involves sufficient investigation and detailed
engineering having been undertaken and an assurance that land matters have been finalised
or are capable of being finalised before work is due to commence.
* Consideration should be given at the appraisal stage to national priorities, not just the
prerequisites listed above because once a project is listed in a loan it tends to overshadow
other, possibly more important, works which are not loan funded.



- 16 -
* Development of model tender/contract documents acceptable to the Bank is desirable
to facilitate approval of individual projects when submitted to the Bank.
* It must be understood that unless a project is funded in the National Budget and where
necessary in succeeding Budgets, it can not start or continue in spite of its being scheduled
in the loan with funds available under the loan. Bank Missions have often criticised non-
commencement or poor rates of progress when this has been the cause. While projects
may be listed in budget proposals by participating Departments, inclusion of projects
and/or the amounts allowed in the Budget for such projects is determined by NEC.
Loan Funded Projects should be identified separately in Budget proposals, along with the
name of the Funding Agency, with funds nominated to enable the implementation of each
project in accordance with its particular target.  Since these funds are reimbursable,
suitable procedures should be devised to ensure sufficient cash flow throughout the project
lifetime.
* While Contract/Consultancy Agreements are usually a sound means of procurement the
Bank should accept that at times Force Account/In House Design also have a place when
there are particular problems or circumstances associated with a particular project. In both
design and construction it is desirable for the Departments/Authorities to develop in-house
expertise not only to be able to undertake projects at short notice but also adequately to
supervise/direct the operations of contractors and consultants. While Force Account is by
no means perfect, examples could also be cited where design or supervision by outsiders
has also been found wanting. In this regard, such in-house experience not only provides
a sound foundation for the organisation itself but contributes to the private sector when
such experienced personnel migrate to the private enterprise organisations.,
* The Bank's guidelines for selection of design consultants do not allow flexibility so far
as preference to locally established consultants or to an even distribution of work among
such consultants.  This is a matter which could be discussed with the Bank when
conditions for future loans are being considered.
* Turnover of staff in a relatively small organisation leads to discontinuities which hamper
the steady flow of investigations and submissions to the Bank.
* Each loan should contain a significant proportion of investigation/detailed engineering
so that designs and documentation will be readily available for any following loan.
* Technical assistance items require significant preparation and input by client authorities,
including National Budget provisions which are often overlooked, even when the project
is to be carried out by consultant. This is usually not an immediate priority area for the
provision of funds so that such project often fall behind and in some cases are not even
commenced before the loan period is complete. These projects generally affect future
planning and are thus often relegated to lower priority. Significant client input is required
because only the client knows exactly what is required and it is possible for consultants to
go off at a tangent if not adequately guided. In such cases the terms of reference is a
particularly important document.



- 17 -
* The Bank has generally been prompt in replies and approvals although on occasion,
delays have occurred, eg with the detailed engineering for Bundi Access Road where
approval to the consultancy took a considerable time and eventually the project was
transferred to Loan 2742
* Replies also appear to take longer where there is some difference of opinion between
the Bank and the participating Authority, eg whether a work should be by force account
or extension of the loan period is sought. This may be aggravated when correspondence
has to pass through a third authority rather than direct between the Bank and the
authority/department concerned.
* Generally the Bank has been receptive and helpful, eg in the transfer of completed items
from Loan 2742 to Loan 2265 to enable the funds to be applied to the maximum extent
possible.






- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/credit
Approval       amount
Loan/Credit title          Purpose            (FY)        (USS m)          Status               Commenu
First Highway Project   Construction   and       1970           9.0      Completed.  Per-  Project costs exceeded by
Cr. 204-PNG              improvement  of                                 formance   Audit  about 90%.  ICB  bids
Ln. 693-PNG             sections  of  the                                Report was issued  were higherthanhpprmisal
Highlands Highway                              in 1977             estimates indicating that at
that time conditions may
not have been attractive to
foreign contractors.
First Port Project       Irnprovementsto the     1972           9.2      Completed.         A loan condition in re-
Cr. 326-PNG              ports at Kieta, Lae                                                gard to cost based tariffs
and Port Moresby                                                   was not complied with.
Second Highlands Road   Construction   and        1977          19.0     Completed.  Pro-  ICB bids were higher than
Improvement Project      improvement  of                                 ject  Completion  apprmisal  estimates  by
Cr. 677-PNG              further sections of                             Repont  prepared  about 759% and the project
the Highlands High-                             together with the  was reduced in scope.
way                                             Third   Highway
Project
Second Pors Project      LAnd  reclamation,       1978          3.5      Completed.  The  Although the project was
Ln. 1551-PNG             civil works, pro-                               ProjectCompletion  completed  satisfactorily
curement of pilotage                            Report was issued  below  cost estimates, it
launches and tech-                              in 1982.           had limited development
nucal assistance and                                               impact.     About  0.5
training                                                           million  of loan  funds
were cancelled.
Third Highway Project    Improvement  of          1980         30.0      Completed. Project  Project achieved most of
Ln. 1856-PNG             further sections of                             CompletionReport  its  objectives   but,
Cr. 1030-PNG             the Highlands High-                             was prepared  in  disclosed  poor detailed
way, preparation of                             1986.  A Perfor-  engineering resulting in
a road maintenance                              mance Audit Re-  inadequate  protection
program, procure-                               port is currently  against  earth  tremors
ment  of  traffic                               under review,      which are frequent in the
counters   and                                                     Highlands.
technical assistance
for preparation of
future projects
Road   Improvement   Improvement  of              1983          31.0     Completed           Subject of this Project
Project                  n a t i o n a I  a n d                                             Completion Repon.
Ln. 2265-PNG             provincial  roads,
construction   of
bridges and tech-
nical assistance.



- 19 -
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits (cont'd)
Loan,credit
amount
Loan/Credit title           Purpose           Approvil      (USS m)           Status        Comments
Transpon Improvement   Construction   and          1987           45.5      Ongoing             Loan  closing  date has
Project                  improvement  of                                                       been extended twice due
Ln. 2742-PNG             national roads and                                                    mainly  to  construction
bridges, resurfacing                                                 delays caused  by  civil
of airporn runways,                                                  distur-bances.
taxiways   and
aprons, procurement
of   navigational,
meterological  and
communieation aids
and   technical
assistance   and
training.



- 20 -
2. Project Timetable
Date                  Date                  Date
Item                                  planned                revised               actual
Identification (Project Brief)        08/--/80                  -                091--/80
Preparation                           05/-/81               01/--/82             12/--/82 La
Appraisal Mission                     071--/81              04/--/82            04/27/82 Lk
Loan/credit negotiations              01/--/82              10/--/82            02/08/83 Xc
Board approval                        03/--182             03/29/83             07/19/83
Loan/credit signature                      -                    -               04/27/83
Loan/credit effectiveness            07/31/83 /d           11/29/83 /d           10/21/83
Loan/credit closing                        -                    -               06/30/88
Loan/credit completion               06/30/89                                   06/30/92
/a Preparation considered sufficient for appraisal.
Lb Departure of appraisal mission.
IC Date of completion of formal negotiations.
a Latest date for effectiveness.
Comments: The project coincided with the Government's decision to decentralize government administration
with the formation of 19 provincial governments. The Government was also pursuing a policy of
giving priority to establishing an adequate rural road network to link the Highlands Highway,
which traverses the relatively more populated central highlands region of the country, with the
marketing centers. The initiating brief in July 1979, although citing institutional obstacles to the
administration of provincial roads, supported the Government's policy in this direction. The project
was initially described as a Rural Roads Improvement Project. Gradually, however, the focus of
the project tended to dissipate with the inclusion of improvements to sections of the Highlands and
Enga Highways. The focus on rural roads was lost in June 1981 when the project attempted to
include provisions to improve other transport modes and was renamed Transport Development
Project I. In the end, the project came to be called appropriately the Road Improvement Project
and the only issue raised by the appraisal mission was the insufficiency of funds allocated in the
lending program. Several sector issues surfaced during review by senior management and they were
discussed in detail at loan negotiations and agreements reached on an action program which included
a timetable to complete project preparation.



- 21 -
3. Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
FY84  FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Appraisal Estimate      3.5    8.5   16.0   21.7   27.2   31.0        -       -      -       -
Actual                  1.3   3.9    8.4    15.2   18.4   22.4   23.3   27.5   28.8   31.0
Actual as % of Estimates
Date of Final Disbursement: November 4, 1992



- 22 -
4. Project Implementation Indicators
Leos              Awrad Ettmi.          Rewod E.timt               Actual
C     4.P.wu                        AppmWoo     AUJl    SI.5         C    V.a.   Swm     CorPkw    S5            CPr C Cq"
A.  Prmi  Roo" Rnlbition
C.tloryr I
Silo    1 otk,a               36.0 km    35.0 hu   0C/-/93    03/3144                            07/-/Y4       02-/V7       Force Aount
T- * - H.4u                    13.5       32.0       09/15/93   06/30/14                         11/-43        OB/-414      Force A.o5
DoUbs - Kibu                  11.0        14.0       09/15313    12/3144                         11/-43        07/116       Force Aom
MLi - Nsk                     21.0        21.0      1I/OM1S3   1011514                           11/-13        11/-44       Force Acca.
Catcio,y 11
Taizrgora  - K    .oulor      25.0        25.0       01/0145    06/304/6                         03/1-7        11/-/57      LCB for Eanwuarb o.bl
M        I Kol                35.0        33.0       07M0144   03/-/l7                           01-4U6        101-/Il      LCB for Earthok only
A    *CL - Mnyoy              36.0        36.0       01/01/b4    12/3146              12/V-M    03/-M 4         91-46 /a   LCB
Bmdi Ama. Rd                  12.5        37.0       01/MJ44 I12V                                031-u         121-,91sT   Proj  NIt-SIdM Force Aou
Kihno - N   .                 20.0        20.0       04/0134    12/31415                         071-_4       07/-197       Force Ac
W.ow RJ-, - Ubeigubi          17.0        17 0        10M1/25   03/3117                          06/-47       02M-/U        LCB
Ca,ro, a                      50.0        84.0        10/01/5   03/31/N                          01/-4         06/-/92      LCB for Ewtbeoke oky/LCB/Fcrcc Aoor
7.  Bridse Rebbiliudon and
Cotoxory I
Kci                           )           )          07,0143   06/3045                                                      Dslad fro zeIja
Kenp Wck6                                           001413   04/3O   5               061-IS    07/-44         06t/-        LCB
Tu                            I           I i        01/014    09/3044                           10/-43        0/-,14       Foro A    tcooat
W -o                          r 5.0 m    }218.0 m    OBM 1 /94   04-.5                                                      LCB
H4n-i                         1           1          07 1 X3   06/30/744                            -          09/-44       LCB
Gidai                         }                      07143    04/304W5                           O4-45         03/-/6       For  Aax
Sii.r Cmek                                           0701/33   04/30414                          091-/-3       01/-/14      LCB
Ubo                           )           1          0710113   06130/4                           091-/13       01/-/24      LCB
Category 1
Ni                                                   I )                                         05/-44        01/-45       Force Ao
Ahwi mE                                                                                          11/-/24       04/-/5       LCB
Waini                                     t                                                      11/-44        ov-/         LCB
D or                                                                                             21/-R7        051/-/16     LCB
Aiuyc                         1592.0 m   1266.0 m    1L0/014   109/30L16                         11/-4S4       11/-45       LCB
NeneI cce                                                                                        04/-44        11/-Y4       Fono  A
[rcl                          [           J          I          1                                11/-45        10/-Y7       For  A
R.hi&                         }           1          1          1                                11/-/B5       061-47       Forc Aax
WoA.I                                     I          I                                                                      DolAd frm  Po
Ca rory                       50C.0 m     1230.0 m   07/01414   06/307                           02V-Y6        12/-/91      hch m b*m  (396 km)
Livasmbod ftum Loan 2742-PNG
C     I    n ......  Of FEHi1Ha
Io Enaa LLhryn
Ttobe --Te.l                  25.0        32.5       01/0144   12/31/56                          06/-15        I1/-/         ICB
K.djip- Mi                     13.0       13.0       01/1414   12V31D5                           071-/56       12.-Y6       KCB
W.L.luay  . Clow               16.0       16.0        03/31/15   06/30W                          Oll/-Y9       09/-/92      KumxiB fwnad.
D.  Conolting SeMra. T
AsauLacce & T-dul
Po.icy Rcvi-                                         01MI/03    12/3116                          0/331413      12-/86       ALI a_cim a&asd and oudaa
WiLihm tbil -rk
h.IoU- S       Ywi4,6
DTCA Prvinil Lu.W.                                 01014     Ct31/594
DWS bwt. St,a,gU.4g                                07,01Y3    12/3116                          -/-/k9       061-/91       L- 'iLd to r_ok- d oraoti. epecdL.in
D DWS Roud sad Bridp Mr i-
Pgroam ind. Trainm                                 01/1414   32/3145                                                      DzsIad from Phec
Do,lopwt of kln           K  Inustruy     01/0144   1311h4                                                                 Trtrvtm  to Law 2742-PNO
HCv    R             Sbdy                                                                                                    Couple-d
1s Worb  I  rudo .r  i oa



- 23 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(USS million)
Appraisal Estimate           Actual Expenditures
Local   Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign  Total
Provincial Roads Rehabilitation
and Improvement                        2.94    4.40      7.34       4.57      6.85    11.42
Bridge Rehabilitation and
Replacement Program                    1.98     3.67     5.65       3.38      6.28     9.66
Improvement of Highlands and
Enga Highways                          6.28    11.65    17.93      10.40     19.31    29.71 /a
Consulting Services                     1.08     5.42     6.50       0.87      3.91     4.78
Technical Assistance and Training       0.30     1.77     2.07       0.03      0.17     0.20
Right-of-Way                            0.60     -        0.60        0.46     -        0.46
Subtotal                            13.17    26.92    40.09      19.71     36.52    56.23
Contingencies
- Physical                             1.55     3.03     4.58
- Price                                3.18     6.19     9.37
Total Proiect Cost                  17.90    36.14    54.04
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                       0.23     0.23        -        0.23     0.23
HydroPower Study                        0.20     1.00     1.20        -        1.22     1.22
TOTAL FINANCING                     18.10    37.37    55.47       19.71    37.97    57.68
/a Includes the cost of construction of Watabung - Chuave Road (US$12.57 million) financed by KFAED.



- 24 -
B. Project Financing
Lon                                                    Fih.
A,smm                          Revised                 (IBRD)         KUWATI         Dinic           TouJ
(13R.DI                      EEtimia    /a               lb             Fad           Fwds         F.zm-
USS              s             USS                             USS             USS           U4s             US
(I) Clvil - orb
(a)          Hizy
(K-djp M-i SUi .i                    2,00,000           65          2,230,00             65        2,267,000                    1,221,OOD          3,488,CD3
(b) Witad 9h;y
(Watah .Chbe S.I.MS                  4,300,C0           65               -                                       7,000,000      4,1910,SU         11,I D,000
(C)  All dsm                              8,900,0D0          65         15,900,000             65      22,544.496                    13,313,504        35.S,00.
(2)   Coi        .uls' wrvea,
and uwiDng                                8,300,000         IC0          5,900,000            100       5,2D0,994                      967,0036         6. 168,000
(3)   Eq*vAaaiAsl                                                               1,000,01             IC0        756,741                                          756,741
(4)   Fro  Ead F_                                  230,769                       230,769       Am. D-           230,769                                          230,769
{i)   Uahfloosiad                                7,269,231                     5,769,231                            -
TOTAL                               3 LO.                          31.000,C                       31 ~0000        7.00          19,681,510        576151
Is    Rem.DlocaLin of Lean proc.d. en April 6, 197.
A of Api 2D, 1993



- 25 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal             Estimate at
Indicators                                    Estimate             Closing Date
A. Provincial Roads Rehabilitation            277 km                 261 km
and Improvement
B. Bridge Rehabilitation and                  1,517 m                1,230 m
Replacement
C. Improvement Highlands and                   54 km                 61.5 km
Enga Highways



- 26 -
B. Economic Impact
Indicators                                   Estimate           At Closing Date
A. Provincial Roads Rehabilitation             > 10                  > 10
and Improvement
B. Bridge Rehabilitation and                   > 10                  > 10
Replacement
C. Improvement of Highlands and
Enga Highways
- Kudjip-Minj Section                      21.2                   19.6
- Togoba-Tambul Section                     12.2                   8.0



- 27 -
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant                                    Subject                                Deadline                      Status
Section 3.05           Acquiaition of land and land rightu including right-  Immediately after land   Complied with
of-way for construction of civil works and furnish        acquisition
promnptly to the Bank afner such acquisition
docurnentary evidence satisfactory to the Bank, all
before award of construction contract.
Section 3.06           Maintain in good repair roads improved under the               -               Comaplied with for the
proiect.                                                                       national roads. Further
Bank aaisunce will be
needed to reorganize
naintenance of provincial
roads on a systematic basis.
Section 3.07           Furnish to the Bank for iu approval the program          October 31 of         Complied with
for the civil works to be carried under Part A          preceding year.
(Provincial Roads) and Part B (National Bridges)
for each year.
Section 3.08           Trnspon Sector Development Strategy                       July 1, 1985         Complied with
-   furniah for Bank reviewed a Transport
Sector Development Stategy
-   after taking into account Banks' comments,
subrit to this National Econonic Council
(NEC)
Section 4.02 (a)       Maintain project records and accounts in                                       Comnplied with
accordance with sound accounting practices
Section 4.02 (c)       ii)    Audit project accounts for each fiscal year          June 30            Substantial delays:
snd furnish to Bank certified copy of audit          annually
report
Date of Report
1983     Nov. 16, 1987
1984     April 21, 1987
1985      April 21, 1987
1986      April 21, 1987
1987     October 5, 1989
1988     October 5, 1989
1989     Sept. 12, 1990
1990     Oct. 30, 1991
1991      Not available



- 28 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
Stage of      Month/              Days in   Specialization      Performance       Types of
project cycle    year    Persons    field      represented /a    rating status      problems
Throueh Appraisal
Identification    7/80      2         21    2E
Preparation 1   2181        2          6    1E,lH
Preparation II  6/81        1          7    IE
Preappraisal    11/81       2          5    lE,lH
Appraisal      5/82         3         28    1E,1H,ISE
Board Approval  4/83
Supervision 1    8/83         1          9    1H                         -          Report missing from file
II   11/83        2           7    lE,lH                      2
III    5/84        1         10    1H                          2
IV    8/84         2          9    lE,lH                       2
v     2/85        1          10    1H                         2
VI    7/86         1          9    1H                          2
VII    7/87         1          6    1H                          2
VIII   11/87        2           7    2H                         2
IX    7/88         2          10    lE,lH                      2
X    11/88        1           7    IF                         2
Xi   11/89         2          5    lF,lH                       2
XII    3/90         2          6    IF,lH                       2
XIII    9/90        2           8    IF,lH                      2
XIV    6/91         3           6    IF,lE,lH                   2
XV    11/92         1          7    IH                          2
/a E: Economist
H: Highway Engineer
F: Financial Analyst



