Document of
The World Bank                           FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4184-PNG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 8, 1983
Transportation Division 2
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
US$ 1.00       =  K 0.7435
K 1.00         =  US$1.3449
K 1 million   =  US$1,344,900
ABBREVIATIONS
,AADT     -  Annual Average Daily Traffic
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
AWMO     -  Area Works Manager Office
BPC      -  Budget Priority Committee
BRRP     -  Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
DTCA     -  Department of Transport and Civil Aviation
DWS      -  Department of Works and Supply
ERR      -  Economic Rate of Return
FA       -  Force Account (Day Labor)
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
NEC      -  National Executive Council
NPC      -  National Planning Committee
NPEP     -  National Public Expenditures Plan
NPO      -  National Planning Office
PMFA     -  Project Managed Force Account
PRTS     -  Provincial Rural Transport Study
PWMO     -  Provincial Works Manager Office
RTWP     -  Rural Transport Works Program
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program
VOC      -  Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD      -  Vehicles Per Day
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                          British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                 -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km) -   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)             -   2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton                -   2,204 lbs or 1.102 US short ton (sh ton)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  TRANSPORT SECTOR ..............................................           1
A.  Background .............................1................. 
B. The Transport System                       ..                         2
C. Transport Administration            ..                                 3
D.  Transport Planning and Coordination               ..                 4
E. Previous Bank-Financed Projects           ..                           5
F. Transport Sector Issues                      ..                        6
II. HIGHWAYS                               ..6
A. The Network ..                                                         6
B. Traffic ..                                                            7
C.  Administration, Staff and Training          ..                       8
D. Planning ..                                                           9
E.  Engineering ............... ............................             9
F.  Construction ...........................................             9
G.  Maintenance ............... .............................           11
H. Financing    ..12
III. THE PROJECT .13
A. Objectives    ..13
B.  Main Features             ........................    13
C. Detailed Description    ..14
D. Status of Preparation    ..17
E. Cost Estimates    ..17
F. Financing   ..20
G. Implementation    ..20
H. Procurement    ..21
I. Disbursements    ..23
J.  Environmental Aspects .............................,                24
The report is based on the findings of the Appraisal Mission consisting of
Messrs. L. Schiffman (Engineer), B. Coukis (Economist) and S. C. Hardy
(Procurement Adviser) who visited Papua New Guinea in May 1982. Mr. G. Trnka
(Engineer) assisted in preparing the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .......................................    24
A.  General ..................................................    24
B.  Rehabilitation and Improvement of Provincial Roads .24
C.  Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program .25
D.  Improvement of Highlands and Enga Highways .26
E. Economic Rate of Return .27
F. Risks .27
V.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .28
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1 Summary of Project Costs .18
4.1 Sensitivity Analysis of ERR .27
ANNEXES
1.  Action Program for Project Implementation .30
2.  Project Related Doc-uments and Data Available in the Project
File .34
TABLES TO THE MAIN REPORT
1. Expenditures on Transport by National Government,
1972/73-1984/85 .37
2. Road Infrastructure: Estimated Revenue from Road User
Charges and Composition of Expenditures, 1977-81 .38
3. Roads in Papua New Guinea, 1981 .39
4. Vehicle Fleet by Type, 1975-79 .40
5.  Road Transport Statistics by Province, 1980 .41
6. Road Transport Output, 1975-79 .42
7. Road Design Standards (DWS) .43
8.  Rehabilitation and Improvement of Provincial Roads .44
9.  Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program .45
10.  Improvement of Highlands and Enga Highways .46
11. Consulting Services - Engineering .47
12. Consulting Services - Studies .48
13. Technical Assistance and Training .49
14. Summary of Project Costs .50
15. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements .51
16.  Distribution of Benefits from Rehabilitation and
Improvement of Provincial Roads (Category I) .52
17. Operating Costs on Unpaved Roads .53
18. Operating Costs on Paved Roads .54



- iii -
Page No.
CHARTS
1. Department of Transport and Civil Aviation - Organization
Chart ...                                                          55
2.  Department of Works and Supply - Organization Chart ........          56
3.  Implementation Schedule ....................................          57
MAPS
1.  IBRD 16664R  - Transport System ............................    58
2. IBRD 16665R1 - Project Components .59






1. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Papua New Guinea (PNG) has an area of 461,700 sq km and a popula-
tion of about 3.0 million (in 1980); during the last decade the population
has grown at a rate of 2.3% per annum. PNG comprises the eastern half of
the island of New Guinea and of about 600 other islands, most of them small
and uninhabited.
1.02      PNG is extremely mountainous.  The central mountain range of the
mainland forms a complete divide between north and south, and consists of
numerous ranges separated by broad upland valleys. These valleys, with
altitudes of 5,000-10,000 ft. form the Central Highlands where about 40% of
PNG's total population is concentrated. In addition to limitations imposed
by the mountains, extensive swamps cover large areas. Topographic
conditions have created small pockets of widely dispersed population.
1.03      Steep slopeb, lhigh altitudes and extensive swamps allow only 10%
of the land surface to be used for agricultural purposes. Agriculture,
forestry and fishing employ about 85% of the labor force but account for
only 25% of GNP. Half of the agricultural output comes from subsistence
farming. Coffee, cocoa and copra were introduced fairly recently and almost
the entire output is exported. The modern sector is dominated by mining
activities: a large copper mine in Bougainville has been operating since
1972 and an even larger mine in Ok Tedi is scheduled to open in the
mid-1980s. As trained and experienced PNG nationals are in short supply,
expatriates dominate the middle management and professional grades in the
public sector and manage almost all manufacturing and service
establishments.
1.04      Since independence in 1975, the Government, rather than emphasize
growth and an expanding modern sector, has chosen to attempt a more equi-
table distribution of the national product among the PNG population.
"Localization" and "decentralization" are two major policy aims. Locali-
zation is to accelerate the transfer of administrative and management
functions from expatriates to locals, and decentralization aims at the
reallocation of political and administrative powers from the national to 19
provincial governments. Both aims are politically motivated, they are,
however, administratively demanding and financially expensive.
1.05      Throughout the 1970s, the economy grew at an annual rate of 2%,
or about 0.1% less rapidly than the population. Commodity exports were
strong, Government revenues remained sizeable and prudently managed, and
annual grants from Australia continued to provide needed budgetary support.
Depressed commodity prices since 1979 and the resulting financial difficul-
ties of the Government, however, demonstrated that a higher growth rate is
required to support basic needs and the welfare of the rural population.
The 1981 estimate of per capita GNP is US$820 p.a. but it includes



-2-
expatriates. Of the estimated 1.1 million economically active persons in
PNG only about 15% are formally employed. This extremely low employment
rate is caused partly by high minimum wages and partly by a deliberate
Government policy to limit foreign investments in the country. As the
majority of the population is expected to continue to be in subsistence
agriculture during the 1980s, the Government will derive most of its income
from mining royalties and from the annual grant from Australia (US$263
million in 1980). Despite the country's dependence on the modern sector and
on the foreign grant, provision of improved services to the rural areas,
where most of the people live, is a political necessity for the Government,
and better land transport has the highest priority.
B. The Transport System
1.06      The transport system reflects the country s geography, topography
and early stage of development. Air and water transport play a compara-
tively large role because land transport is difficult and expensive, and major
roads do not reach the majority of the population (Map IBRD 16664R). There is
no railway. Copper and timber are the bulkier exports and they move through
special harbor facilities.  The remaining exports (coffee, copra, cocoa) and
imports plus domestically produced beer and soft drinks, generate almost all
the freight traffic both for road haulers and for coastal and inter-island
shippers. In terms of gross tonnage, imports are almost three times the
volume of exports (excluding copper and timber).
1.07      The Government is aware of the inadequacies in the transport sys-
tem. Tariffs are high, the safety record poor, maintenance expensive, and
management of larger operations mainly in the hands of expatriates. Since
domestic construction capacity is in its infancy stage, major works require
foreign contractors.  Demands to extend and upgrade the road network exist,
but at the same time, there are pressures to reduce the recurrent budget, to
limit expatriate recruitment, and to press forward with localization and
provincialization (paras. 2.09 and 2.20).
Highway Transport
1.08      The highway subsector and its administration are discussed in
detail in Chapter II.
Air Transport
1.09      Air transport plays an important role in providing access to the
hinterland. PNG has 425 operational airports and airstrips and the national
airline Air Niugini flies scheduled services to 18 of those airports; an
additional 133 airports are serviced by small commercial operators. Air
Niugini has a virtual monopoly in domestic civil aviation. Other operators
are obliged by the National Airline Commission, the country-s regulatory
body for air transport, to use small aircraft and not to compete directly



- 3 -
either with Air Niugini or among themselves. Operating costs are high
because of flying conditions, infrastructure costs, seasonal demand
variations, high labor costs, and lack of effective competition. For Air
Niugini, average annual load factors are 60%; for other operators they are
below 50%. Both passenger and freight rates are comparatively high. Total
volume of air freight has been slowly decreasing; passenger flows between
1975 and 1980 show a shift from urban-rural to urban-urban patterns.
Maritime Transport
1.10      PNG relies heavily on water transport for inter-island and coastal
traffic. There are 13 relatively well equipped major sea and river ports.
Sixteen are managed by the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board and two by mining
companies. In addition, there are some 400 minor ports with limited facili-
ties serving the coastal trade. The Project includes studies of several
proposed boat service projects expected to improve access to isolated
communities (para. 3.08). In 1980, overseas cargo throughput in the main
ports amounted to 3.7 million tons and coastal cargo to 824,000 tons. The
main ports have overseas shipping services provided by 15 companies.
Secondary ports are serviced by 176 smaller boats. Private operations are
supplemented by a government fleet consisting of 61 vessels. The high costs
generated by this fleet have recently caused the Government to review the
fleet-s viability. The performance of coastal shipping resembles that of
road transport: a few large firms with expatriate management dominate while
small, local operators work at the margin. Tiere too, inefficiency
contributes to high tariffs. Tariff control is based on a system of
distance zones and shorter journeys are frequently penalized.
C. Transport Administration
1.11      The Department of Transport and Civil Aviation (DTCA) is
responsible for transport planning, policy and administration, including
regulating the different transport modes (Chart 1). DTCA consists of:
(a) the Policy and Planning Division, responsible for planning
the transport sector, and for the preparation of projects to be
funded through the National Public Expenditures Plan (NPEP);
(b) the Civil Aviation Division, responsible for the licensing of
internal air service operations, for approving airline timetables,
and for setting fares and freight rates;
(c)  the Maritime Division, responsible for the provision and main-
tenance of navigation aids and the administration of shipping
regulations;
(d) the Division of Land Transport, responsible for the regulation
and licensing of road traffic; and



-4-
(e) the Civil Aviation Agency, an autonomous agency whose operating
expenses are paid for by a grant from the Australian Government,
responsible for aircraft control, electronics, airworthiness,
and other safety-related operations.
1.12      The Department of Works and Supply (DWS) is responsible for all
civil works and their maintenance. Construction and maintenance of roads
outside the national network come under the authority of provincial
governments and municipalities which, however, generally engage DWS to carry
out the work on an agency basis.
D. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.13      DTCA originates plans for the improvement of transport infra-
structure. Coordination of all economic and social planning work is the
responsibility of the National Planning Office (NPO) which compiles annual
investment programs for each sector and presents them to the Budget Priority
Committee (BPC); both NPO and BPC are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Finance. BPC reviews each sectoral program and submits a consolidated
investment program to the National Planning Committee (NPC). NPC submits
the program, together with appropriate recommendations, to the National
Executive Council (NEC) consisting of Cabinet Ministers.   NPC and NEC
jointly review the annual investment programs in the light of the
Government s development policy and available funds. The results of this
review are incorporated into NPEP: this is an annually updated public
investment program, drawn up on a four-year rolling basis.
1.14      Investments in the transport sector are part of the NPEP.  Apart
from the NPEP, the Government does not have an explicit transport develop-
ment program. A Transport Development Plan, drafted in 1981 by DTCA, was
not accepted by Government which, instead, directed DTCA to prepare a medium
term transport strategy. This was to be published in early 1982 as a White
Paper but the necessary work has not yet been completed. In the absence of
an accepted long-term master plan, DTCA carries out reconnaissance studies
of existing facilities, identifies shortcomings, and assesses improvements
required to meet transport demand. In addition, it incorporates into its
annual submissions to the NPO justifiable projects identified by other
agencies of the national government and evaluates projects put forward by
provincial governments who seek financial assistance. As a matter of
policy, DTCA emphasizes projects which are continuations or extensions of
previous development programs and closely scrutinizes proposals for new
schemes to ensure they respond to genuine needs. The absence of a transport
investment plan does not allow infrastructure improvements to be schedluled in
a coordinated manner. During negotiations, the Government agreed to adhere to
a timetable for addressing the transport planning issue.
1.15      The 1981-85 NPEP allocated about 15% of public investment to
transport: four-fifths of that amount was earmarked for roads and bridges on



-5-
the national network, the remainder for the improvement of provincial and
local roads. The 1982-86 NPEP allocates similar proportions: in 1982,
expenditure for roads and bridges were about K 32.0 million (US$41.4 million)
of which somewhat less than half was for maintenance. Table 1 shows expendi-
tures for transport works over the 1972-85 period. Table 2, however, shows
that revenues from the use and ownership of vehicles are low and amount to
about 30% of the total expenditure on roads. The size of the implied subsidy
emphasizes the need for an increase in road user charges (para. 1.18).
E. Previous Bank-Financed Projects
1.16      The Bank Group has assisted the transport sector through three
highways and two ports projects. Two of the highways projects and both
ports projects have been satisfactorily completed. At this juncture, only the
Performance Audit Report (June 16, 1977) for the First Highway Project
(Credit 204/Loan 693-PNG) is available; it found that the Bank Group's refusal
to provide supplementary finance for the 90% project cost overrun was
unnecessarily harsh and that international competitive bidding (ICB)
under the conditions prevailing in PNG during 1970 may have contributed to
cost escalation. During preparation of the Second Highlands Road Improvement
Project (Credit 677-PNG), approved in 1977, it was found that the bids
received under ICB for improvement of the Highlands Highway exceeded cost
estimates by 75%; and the project was subsequently reduced.
1.17      The Third Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit 1030-PNG) approved in
1980, is currently underway and provides US$30 million for the improvement of
some 138 km of the Highlands Highway (Map IBRD 16665R1), for consulting
services, technical assistance for road maintenance, and training. The bids
received under ICB for the improvement of the Highlands Highway were within
the appraisal cost estimate; and a sound basis for ICB cost estimating has
thus been established. After a slow start, the rate of progress in
implementing this project had improved and civil works are now about 50%
complete. Recently, civil unrest in the area has again slowed progress. In
addition, substantial increases in required earthwork due to unstable slopes
is expected to appreciably increase project costs and delay completion.
Disbursements continue to lag substantially behind appraisal estimates due
to initial implementation problems and slow processing of withdrawal
applications by the Government. Seminars concerning withdrawal procedures
have been held with the executing agency and procedures regarding
certification of expenditures have been streamlined to speed up processing.
Project completion is now expected during 1984, about 12 months behind the
appraisal schedule. Implementation of the technical assistance for road
maintenance has also been substantially delayed. The Government has now
appointed the technical assistance consultants to carry out a study of
maintenance needs, including training, and work will begin during March
1983. The proposed project provides for a continuation of this effort, and
for implementation of study recommendations, including training.



-6-
F. Transport Sector Issues
1.18      The Bank Transport Sector Review of 1979 identified a series of
issues which need to be addressed. These were: sector planning, efficiency
of transport operations, participation of PNG nationals in transport related
activities, and balance between public expenditures for, and public revenues
from, transport operations. During negotiations of the Third Highway Project
in 1980, the Government and the Bank agreed that: (a) proposals would be
submitted to the NEC by June 1981 to increase user charges in all three
modes to cover at least current expenditures; (b) a proposal for the deregula-
tion of the trucking industry would be submitted to the NEC by June 1981;
(c) the Government would explore measures to liberalize operations in civil
aviation and coastal shipping and would inform the Bank of its proposed
actions by end-1981; and (d) the Government would report to the Bank annually
on progress in the development of the domestic construction industry.
1.19      Difficulties in implementing political objectives such as
localization and decentralization, scarcity of experienced national staff, the
absence of a transport strategy framework, and the technical intricacy of
issues such as pricing policy and deregulation suggest that much more time
than originally envisaged would be needed to appreciably improve transport
sector management and operations. It is encouraging, however, that the
Government has become, over the past two years, increasingly aware of
significant operational benefits that would materialize by the formulation of
sound transport policy. Thus, transport policy issues are a subject of
continuing dialogue between the Government and the Bank. The proposed project
will focus on infrastructure improvements as well as on planning,
institution-building and training issues (paras. 3.08 to 3.11). During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it would adhere
to a timetable for addressing the policy and manpower issues and that it
would, by July 1, 1985, prepare and furnish to the Bank for review a transport
sector development strategy, and, after taking the Bank-s comments into
account, submit it to the NEC for consideration (para. 5.01).
2. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
2.01      PNG has a road network of about 19,000 km of which about 940 km are
sealed (Table 3). About 5,000 km are maintained by the National Government,
and the remainder are the responsibility of the provincial and local govern-
ments. Roads are primarily located in and near the main coastal towns, and in
the Central Highlands. Because of the high construction costs associated with
the extremely mountainous terrain, difficult soil and harsh climatic
conditions, the road system is not linked and consists of a number of regional
networks. The condition of many roads is poor because of inadequate
maintenance and damage from overloaded vehicles. Moreover, missing or weak
bridges diminish the usefulness of existing roads; in some areas, access roads
simply do not exist.



-7-
2.02      For planning purposes, DTCA separates roads into three functional
categories: (a) arterials which are highway and trunk roads, mainly
servicing interregional transport; (b) collectors connecting main population
or commercial centers to arterials; and (c) locals, which serve a rural
area, sometimes connecting with the collector roads. The arterials number
about 5,000 km and collectors and locals about 13,000 km. In addition, there
are about 1,000 km of urban roads. For purposes of administering
construction, improvement and maintenance, roads are also classified as
national or provincial including "district" roads.
B. Traffic
2.03      There are an estimated 55,000 vehicles in PNG, with new registra-
tions averaging about 11,000 vehicles annually over the past five years.
About 38% of all vehicles are cars and station wagons; 32% light trucks; 15%
heavier trucks; 5% buses; 6% motorcycles, and 4% tractors (Table 4). Trucks
have been steadily increasing their share of new registrations, particularly
in the Highlands Region. Lack of vehicle maintenance, overloading of both
passenger and freight vehicles, and poor road conditions result in high annual
scrapping rates. Relationships among population, motorized vehicles and
kilometers of road on a province by province basis are shown in Table 5.
2.04      Road traffic volumes are generally low, both for passengers and
freight.  Travel demand is seasonal and peaks just after the annual coffee,
copra and cocoa sales. Most road traffic is short distance; long distance
passenger traffic is chiefly by air, and by sea for freight. An important
exception is the Highlands Highway which runs for a distance of about 600 km
from the main port at Lae through Mt. Hagen to Mendi providing an essential
facility for the Central Highlands. The Highlands Highway carries an
average traffic volume in excess of 600 vpd, of which over 40% are trucks
and buses. Because of the improvements to the road there has been a gradual
shift from trucks of 5 to 7-ton capacity to 12-ton trucks with 10-ton
trailers, used particularly on the long distance runs. Estimates of vehicle
kilometers by vehicle type are shown in Table 6.
2.05      For-hire road transport operations are limited to the area of the
Highlands Highway and are dominated by several large, expatriate-managed
companies which provide an efficient, reliable and well-supported service.
Small, local operators work mostly as subcontractors. According to a recent
study, truck freight rates on the Highlands Highway are 40% above the "cost-
plus-overhead" total and this is partly due to overregulation of routes,
tariffs and licensing. Another constraint is the scarcity of local entre-
preneurs and managerial staff. Unless changes are made to the prevailing
rate-fixing structure and the regulation of licenses, road improvements will
provide profits to operators rather than savings to consumers. The proposed
project would provide for a review of the road freight industry in order to
increase participation of PNG nationals (para. 3.08). Outside the Highlands
Highway, passengers and freight are mostly carried by "Public Motor



-8-
Vehicles". These are privately owned minibuses, often the property of
community groups. Rates are set by negotiation between operators and
clients, sometimes mediated by local government councils or by provincial
authorities.
2.06      Lack of enforcement of existing safety regulations and poor vehicle
maintenance result in a relatively high incidence of traffic accidents, espe-
cially on the Highlands and Enga Highways. The project will enhance traffic
safety on the Highlands and Enga Highways sections proposed for improvement
by providing wider, paved roads; improved visibility for drivers; and adequate
shoulders for pedestrians.
C. Administration, Staffing and Training
2.07      Responsibility for planning, construction and maintenance of the
road network is divided between the National Government and the 19
provincial governments. The national roads are administered by DTCA and DWS.
Provincial and local roads are the responsibility of the provinces and
the municipalities, respectively.
2.08      While DTCA handles policy and planning matters, DWS directly
handles all works on national roads, both capital and recurrent, through its
field organization. There are five Area Works Manager Offices (AWMO):
Boroko, Lae, Madang, Mount Hagen, and Rabaul; and 20 Provincial Works
Manager Offices (PWMO), one in each Province plus one for the National
Capital District. An organization scheme of the DWS operational sections,
related to transport, is shown in Chart 2.
2.09      Most senior and middle management posts in Government agencies are
held by expatriates engaged on short-term (2-3 years) contracts. Qualified
PNG nationals are in extremely short supply in most technical agencies. In
DWS, about 80% of the professional staff are expatriates. The Government is
continuing active recruitment overseas but the introduction in 1979 of reduced
salary scales and revised terms of contract has made recruitment difficult and
many positions remain vacant. The deficit in skilled personnel has been made
up by short-term engagement of consultant staff for key positions. Although
the Staff Development and Training Section of DWS continues to carry out
training courses to accelerate staffing with qualified nationals, these
activities have been hampered by: (i) shortage of national instructors; (ii)
limited training equipment; (iii) insufficient training curricula; and (iv)
inadequate training methodology. Training efforts have so far been centered
on fellowship programs and on courses for semi-professionals, technicians and
foremen. It is acknowledged that it will take many years to train local staff
for all professional positions. The proposed project will provide technical
assistance to help with the training effort at the DWS headquarters and in the
provinces (paras. 3.09 and 3.11).



- 9-
D.  Planning
2.10      The DTCA Policy and Planning Division carries out reconnaissance
of existing road networks and assesses improvements required to meet trans-
port demand. Specifically, it focusses on gradually improving road access
into rural areas, and connecting, with all weather roads, the major
population and production centers among themselves and with major ports.
2.11      The Provincial Rural Transport Study (PRTS), financed through the
Third Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit 1030-PNG) was carried out by a
consortium of British and West German Consultants (T.P.O'Sullivan/GITEC).
The study reviewed rural transport needs in the thirteen least developed
provinces of PNG; five provinces were studied in 1981 and eight more in
1982. On the basis of the study findings, DTCA conceived a Rural Transport
Works Program (RTWP). RTWP is a rolling program from which high priority
items are selected for upgrading each year, depending on the volume of
available funds; for the next few years RTWP will emphasize rehabilitation
and improvement of provincial roads. DWS completed a detailed National
Roads and Bridges Inventory in 1979 and identified structures with serious
problems. Following the site inspection of more than 100 bridges, DWS and
DTCA formulated a rolling Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
(BRRP) to improve or replace bridges on national roads which will be insti-
tuted on a permanent basis.
E. Engineering
2.12      DWS is responsible for the engineering of road works, and has
formulated design standards, which are presently being revised and updated,
for various types of roads and terrain conditions (Table 7). Although the
Roads and Bridges Section of DWS undertook the design of some major projects
in the past years, a large proportion of its design work is carried out by
consultants, most of whom are subsidiaries of foreign, mainly Australian,
firms. In general, the quality of engineering is satisfactory, and the
proposed project will provide technical assistance to aid DWS in making
further improvements (para. 3.11) to its in-house capability.
F. Construction
2.13      As domestic construction capacity remains limited, most major
construction works on national roads have been carried out by foreign
contractors, especially for externally financed projects. Some construction
works on national roads have also been carried out by force account (day
labor) or by its variant, Project Managed Force Account (PMFA), which
involves the use of subcontractors, labor and plant hired under a construction
management team of consultants engaged by DWS. An 8.5 km section of the
Highlands Highway near Kundiawa was built through PMFA under the Second
Highlands Road Improvement Project (Credit 677-PNG) and PMFA will again be
used for some selected roadworks under the proposed project (para. 3.23). The
use of PMFA would provide increased work for domestic road contractors and
thus assist their further development; and it would also provide training
opportunities for PNG nationals in construction operations (para. 3.23).



- 10 -
2.14      Provincial governments often employ DWS on an agency basis either
to execute, or call contracts for, the construction of small projects on
provincial and village roads. Roadworks on village roads are carried out
largely by manual labor but sometimes with equipment, usually supplied by
DWS, which also provides technical assistance to the local government
councils.
2.15      Construction costs in PNG are high and may reach, in mountainous
terrain, up to K 500,000 (US$650,000) per km of two-lane national road and
K 100,000 (US$130,000) per km of provincial road. Despite high costs, civil
engineering contracts in PNG are not of a magnitude, either in scale or
frequency, to support a comprehensive domestic contracting industry. Local
contracting firms can be divided into three categories: (a) domestically owned
and managed; (b) domestically owned and managed by expatriates; and (c)
subsidiaries of overseas contracting companies. The firms in category (a)
tender only for plant-hire contracts, while the firms in category (b) are able
to bid for smaller civil works contracts.  Only firms in category (c) would
have the capacity to execute major construction works, such as the sections of
the Highlands and Enga Highways included in the project.  At present,
sufficient road construction equipment is available in the country to cater
for its likely needs.
2.16      As the Government wishes to promote the domestic road construc-
tion industry, the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project (Credit 677-PNG)
included a component providing technical assistance to domestic road con-
struction contractors. Under this component, a. consultant drafted a con-
tractor-s manual in 1978 and concentrated later on field training for six or
seven domestically owned and managed firms which owned a basic equipment
fleet and had the entrepreneurial spirit necessary for their further devel-
opment. However, the relative shortage of suitable small road construction
or maintenance contracts hampered the success of these training efforts.
Under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit 1030-PNG), the Government
undertook to investigate further ways of promoting the domestic road con-
struction industry and report to the Bank Group each year until 1984 on any
measures taken. As the results have been disappointing so far, the proposed
project contains provisions to revive and continue the previous efforts to
develop the industry. During the project period, DWS would supply work to
genuine domestic contractors by careful apportionment of small roadworks
(para. 3.23).
2.17      Major construction projects which are externally financed are
usually supervised during construction by the consultants who carried out
the detailed engineering. Smaller or locally financed contracts are
supervised from DWS Headquarters or by PWMOs, sometimes with consultant
assistance. The quality of supervision is generally satisfactory and the
proposed project will provide technical assistance to aid DWS in further
improving its in-house capability (para. 3.11).



- 11 -
G. Maintenance
2.18      Maintenance of national roads and bridges is carried out by DWS
through its AWMOs and PWMOs. While the technical standard of maintenance on
national roads is satisfactory, the level of maintenance services provided
is often inadequate. Nevertheless, emergency situations such as landslides,
culvert washouts, and bridge abutment erosion receive prompt attention. The
cost of road maintenance in PNG is high, due on the one hand to extremely
adverse topographic and climatic conditions, and on the other to inefficien-
cies in DWS maintenance operations. Maintenance requirements are also
expected to increase in future as a result of road network extension and
traffic growth. In the past, adequate funds have been provided by the
National Government for maintenance of national roads, but some maintenance
funds have been diverted to road improvement works.
2.19      DWS has considered for some time establishing a central Maintenance
Branch at its headquarters to plan, direct and monitor road maintenance and
its cost. At present, maintenance expenditures are not properly monitored
and verified against budgets or physical accomplishments; they are often
inflated by the cost of minor construction and improvement projects and are
not determined by road standards and conditions, or traffic levels and
composition. Lack of such data limits the scope for well conceived policies
for maintenance operations, for efficiency and spending levels, for road
standards and necessary road improvements. The Third Highway Project (Loan
1856/Credit 1030-PNG) included technical assistance services for improving
maintenance operations. For over two years, the Government had delayed the
appointment of the consultants; the consultants have now been appointed and
work will begin shortly. The proposed project would continue to provide
technical assistance to DWS for building a maintenance information, monitor-
ing and cost accounting system, including training (para. 3.11). During
negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare and submit a detailed action
program for the improvement of maintenance operations for Bank review by
March 31, 1984, and to subsequently implement the agreed program, including
setting up a Maintenance Branch within DWS and appointing suitable national
staff for training by December 31, 1983 (para. 5.01). In addition, and in
order to improve its training efforts, the Government agreed, during nego-
tiations, to prepare and submit for Bank review, a detailed action program
for the implementation of a road maintenance training program by September 30,
1983, and to subsequently implement it under the proposed project
(para. 5.01).
2.20      Maintenance of provincial and local roads, which is the responsi-
bility of the provincial governments, is inadequate. Certain provinces
allocate a reasonable amount of money for maintenance while others allocate
very little and concentrate on building new roads. Except for two provinces
(Chimbu and Bougainville), maintenance of provincial and local roads is being
carried out by DWS as an agent of the provincial governments. However, the
extent of maintenance works and the provision of funds depend entirely on
the provincial governments. The proposed project will assist the provincial



- 12 -
governments to develop a rational strategy for maintenance on provincial and
local roads (paras. 3.09 and 3.11).
H. Financing
2.21       Financing for construction, improvement and maintenance of national
roads is provided from the National Government's annual budget. In addition,
provincial governments fund works on provincial roads through their untied
grants and other internal funds or by using tied grants appropriated through
the NPEP. Some provincial governments make bulk allocations to district
councils or communities for maintenance or minor road improvement. Provincial
governments also have some revenue generating authority and may obtain
additional funds for roadworks through the levy of local taxes.
2.22       The Government's allocation for roadworks for 1982 is about
K 32.0 million (US$41.4 million), which is exclusive of provincial untied
grant funds intended for such activities. Of this total, about K 19.0 million
(US$24.6 million) is for construction and about K 13.0 million (US$16.8 mil-
lion) for maintenance. No figures are available for provincial expenditures.
2.23       The Government-s annual expenditures on roads increased, with some
fluctuations during periods of peak construction activities, from some
K 20.0 million (US$25.9 million) to about K 32.0 million (US$41.4 million)
during the period 1972/73-1979/80. As a percent of total expenditures these
amounts have averaged about 7% p.a. Annual maintenance costs for the
national system have varied between K 10.0 and K 19.0 million (US$12.9 and
US$24.6 million) for this period, depending on funds available rather than
requirements. While the highway system had not increased substantially over
this period,  DWS reports that maintenance budget requirements are rising
appreciably due to increasing costs. Fund allocations, however, are expected
to remain at about K 15.0 million (US$19.4 million) p.a., indicating that
road maintenance may not receive adequate funds in future. It is therefore
necessary that increased efficiency be introduced through better programming
and monitoring of maintenance operations.
2.24       At this juncture, the Government is preparing a Second Road Improve-
ment Project considered for financing by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
The proposed ADB project would provide for improvement of about 40 km of
national roads, consulting services, and technical assistance for preparation
of a future project. The ADB project is estimated to cost about US$15.6 mil-
lion and is scheduled for appraisal in early 1983.



- 13 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The main project objectives are to improve rural mobility through
rehabilitation and improvement of roads and bridges, highway maintenance
through the establishment of an efficient management system, and to assist in
developing the road transport and construction industries. The project also
aims to assist in establishing a strategy for transport sector development
leading to policy action plans and associated investment programs.
B. Main Features
3.02      The project comprises:
(a) rehabilitation or improvement of about 15 provincial road segments
totaling approximately 277 km, comprised of: (i) Categories I
and II - 10 roads (227 km); and (ii) Category III - about 5 roads
(50 km);/l
(b) rehabilitation or replacement of about 32 bridges on national
roads having an estimated total length of 1,520 lineal meters,
comprised of: (i) Categories I and II - 17 bridges (1,017 lineal
meters); and (ii) Category III - about 15 bridges (500 lineal
meters);/l
(c) improvement of two sections of the llighlands Highway (29 km) and
of the first section of the Enga Highway (about 25 km);
(d) consulting services for feasibility studies, detailed engineering
and construction supervision, for transport policy studies, and for
the preparation of a transport sector development plan and
associated investment programs;
(e) technical assistance to establish efficient procedures for
transport sector development functions in general and highway
management and administration in particular, and to assist in the
development of the domestic road construction industry; and
(f) training of highway maintenance personnel.
/1 Category I items are those for which detailed engineering has been
completed. Category II items are those for which detailed engineering
is underway but not yet completed; and Category III items are those that
are to be identified during the course of project implementation.
Construction of Category I items is scheduled to begin during the first
year of the Project. Construction of items in Categories II and III will
begin in later years.



- 14
Funds will be also be provided to carry out a Hydropower study for the
Department of Minerals and Energy in order to review potential hydropower
resources.
C. Detailed Description
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Provincial Roads
3.03      The 10 road segments included in Categories I and II (Table 8) which
are to be rehabilitated and improved under the project were selected from
RTWP. They are mostly rough and narrow gravel and earth roads, impassable
for a good part of the year due to inadequate drainage and lack of
maintenance. These roads, totaling 227 km in seven provinces (Map 2) fall
into two categories according to their status of preparation. The first
category includes four road segments totaling 81.5 km whose implementation is
scheduled during 1983. The second category, comprised of six road segments
totaling 145.5 km (Table 8) is scheduled for implementation in later years
(Annex 1 and Chart 3). The roads will be rehabilitated or improved largely
on existing alignments, to DWS Rural Road Standard (Class 3) or Access Road
Standard (Classes 1 or 2) (Tables 7 and 8) depending on the volume of
anticipated traffic. All roads will be provided with gravel surfacing;
bridges will be strengthened or replaced and drainage improved. Pavements
will be designed for an axle load of 18,000 lbs. In addition to these 10
road segments, the project provides for about five additional road links,
totaling approximately 50 km (Category III - Table 8) which are to be
identified from the continuation of the PRTS, now ongoing. Funding for the
roads included in Categories II and III under the project would be limited to
those with an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 10% or higher. If one of the
segments fails to meet this criterion, it would be replaced with another
segment selected from RTWP that would be acceptable to the Bank.
Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
3.04      Under BRRP, the project would include the replacement and
rehabilitation of 17 bridges (Categories I and II - Table 9) on national
roads in six provinces, for a total length of 1,017 lineal meters.  These
bridges fall into two categories according to their status of preparation;
the first includes eight bridges (Map IBRD 16665R1) totaling 425 lineal
meters and the second, nine bridges totaling 592 lineal meters (Table 9).
The bridges are either in imminent danger of collapse, have an extremely low
load restriction placed upon them, or require abnormally high maintenance
expenditures; they would be built to DWS Design Standard, Loading Class T44
(Table 7). In addition to these 17 bridges, the project provides for
approximately 15 more bridges (Category III - Table 9), totaling about 500
lineal meters, which are to be identified as part of the ongoing BRRP.
Funding for the bridges included in Categories II and III under the project



- 15 -
would be limited to those with ERR of 10% or higher. If one of the bridges
fails to meet this criterion, it would be replaced with another bridge
selected from BRRP that would be acceptable to the Bank.
Improvements of the Highlands and Enga Highways
3.05      The project will improve three sections of the Highlands and Enga
Highways, totaling about 54 km (Map IBRD 16665R1). Two of these sections,
namely Kudjip to Minj (13 km) and Watabung to Chuave (16 km), are the
remaining unimproved sections on the Highlands Highway between the port of
Lae and Mount Hagen and their condition accounts for high vehicle operating
and road maintenance costs. The third section, Togoba to Tanbul Turnoff,
covers the first 25 km of the Enga Highway which is the continuation of the
Highlands Highway towards Wabag. The Government intends to continue
improving the highway up to Wabag (an additional 68 km) over the next decade.
3.06      All three sections have rough and narrow gravel surfaces which have
deteriorated because of inadequate design, lack of maintenance and significant
traffic. They will be improved to DWS Rural Road Design Standard, Class 1
(Tables 7 and 10), mainly on existing alignments, provided with improved
drainage and paved using double bituminous surface treatment. At some
locations, embankments will be raised to control flood damage and slopes
stabilized. Bridges will be rehabilitated or replaced, as and where
necessary.
Consulting Services
3.-07     The project would provide about 700 man-months of consulting
services in total (Tables 11 and 12). Consulting services for feasibility
studies, preliminary and detailed engineering and construction supervision of
the road and bridge components would total about 440 man-months; and another
75 man-months of services would be provided for construction management and
monitoring of the civil works for the Watabung-Chuave section and of some
provincial roads which will be built using PMFA (para. 3.23). In addition,
the project would provide 70 man-months of consulting services to undertake
feasibility studies and detailed engineering needed for the preparation of
future projects (Table 11).
3.08      The project would also include a total of 82 man-months of
consulting services for DTCA to cater for shortages in experienced staff in
order to assist with a series of transport policy studies to be undertaken
during 1983/85 which will cover operational topics such as the preparation of
a transport development plan leading to an investment program for 1985-90;
establishment of data information systems to support transport planning;
review of the road freight industry to develop measures for the increased
participation of PNG nationals; review of airport user charges to rationalize
tariffs; and a review of bus operations in Port Moresby and Lae (Table 12).
In addition, the project includes 40 man-months of consulting services to
undertake feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for several boat
services projects identified by the PRTS. Outline terms of reference for
each of the consulting services included in the Project have been agreed upon



- 16 -
between the Government and the Bank (see Project File) and detailed terms of
reference will be approved by the Bank prior to the appointment of
consultants.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.09      As continuing shortages of qualified national staff impede the
Government s localization policy, assistance is needed in the transport
sector to strengthen planning, and supervisory and monitoring capacity both
at the national and at the provincial government levels. The project will
assist in the strengthening of DTCA and DWS by financing technical assist-
ance and training by consulting firms totaling 156 man-months (Table 13).
3.10      For DTCA, the project will provide one senior adviser (12 man-
months) to assist in provincial liaison, planning and training programs and
in promoting the upgrading and localization of DTCA's planning and programming
capabilities at the national level. Outline terms of reference for these
services have been agreed upon between the Government and the Bank (see
Project File) and detailed terms of reference will be approved by the Bank
prior to the appointment of the adviser.
3.11      For DWS, the project will provide five experts (132 man-months).
Three senior advisers, for a two-year period, will assist in improving DWS
organization, management and operations (24 man-months), in improving
highway design, management and supervision of construction (24 man-months),
in helping to set up and initially operate a permanent, rolling program for
bridge inspection, rehabilitation and replacement on a nationwide basis (24
man-months) and in preparing and carrying out a program of incentives and
assistance designed to promote the growth and capabilities of indigenous
road construction contractors (12 man-months). Two maintenance experts (48
man-months) and one maintenance training adviser (12 man-months) will assist
DWS and the provincial governments in improving road maintenance planning,
programming, execution, monitoring and cost accounting, and in practical
training. They will assist in establishing and operating a Maintenance
Branch and a Training Unit for maintenance within DWS (which DWS will set
up by December 31, 1983 - para. 5.01). The training adviser will work
within the Training Unit of the Maintenance Branch, and would particularly
assist in: (i) determining detailed training needs in the road maintenance
area using, as a basis, the results of the Road Maintenance Study now being
carried out under the Third Highway Project; (ii) preparing and beginning the
implementation of a three-year maintenance training program at the national
and provincial levels; and (iii) organizing and supervising training of
national instructors. Outline terms of reference for all these technical
assistance consulting assignments have been agreed between the Government and
the Bank (see Project File). During negotiations, arrangements to prepare
Action Programs for improvement of maintenance operations, for establishing
training needs and for implementing a training program was agreed between the
Government and the Bank (para. 5.01). DWS will submit the detailed action
program for maintenance training for Bank review by September 30, 1983, and



- 17 -
the detailed action program for the improvement of maintenance operations
for Bank review by March 31, 1984 (para. 5.01). The technical assistance
advisers will aid DWS in this effort. Detailed terms of reference for
all technical assistance assignments will be approved by the Bank prior to
the engagement of consultants.
D. Status of Preparation
3.12      As the project consists of many small components scattered all over
the country, preparation has been difficult, time consuming and costly. For
rehabilitation and improvement of provincial roads and for bridges on
national roads, feasibility studies and preliminary and detailed engineering
have been completed for the four roads and the eight bridges included in
Category I, the first year's construction program. Feasibility studies and
preliminary engineering for the six roads and nine bridges included in the
second category are presently ongoing and will be completed during 1983. For
the remaining five roads and 15 bridges in the third category, feasibility
studies and preliminary engineering will be undertaken during 1983/84. This
work is being carried out by DWS, DTCA, and consultants according to a
methodology and timetable agreed with the Bank. Detailed engineering for the
second category bridges having an acceptable economic rate of return will be
undertaken during 1983/84. For the second and third category roads and the
third category bridges, detailed engineering will be carried out, for those
roads and bridges having an acceptable economic rate of return, during the
course of project implementation.
3.13      For the Kudjip-Minj section of the Highlands Highway, feasibility
studies and preliminary engineering have been completed by DTCA and DWS
with the help of consultants (Beca, Carter and Hlollings, PNG). A consultant
will be selected and appointed shortly for the Watabung-Chuave section and
feasibility study and preliminary engineering will be completed during 1983.
Detailed engineering for the Kudjip-Minj section will be completed during
1983; for the Watabung-Chuave section, it will be carried out under the
proposed project, subject to an acceptable economic rate of return being shown
(para. 3.27). The feasibility study for the Togoba-Wapenamanda section of the
Enga Highway, which includes the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff section, was prepared
by consultants (Rendel, Palmer and Tritton, UK) with financing under the
Second Highway Project (Credit 677-PNG). Detailed engineering and tender
documents for the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff section have been prepared by DWS with
the help of consultants (Cardno and Davies, PNG), and have been completed.
E.  Cost Estimates
3.14      The total cost of the Project, including contingency allowances,
is estimated at about K 40.2 million or US$54.0 million equivalent. Total
project cost includes: (a) physical contingencies of 10% to 25% of base costs
on all civil works items depending on the status of engineering and
anticipated project complexity in each case; and (b) price contingencies



- 18 -
amounting to about 21% of base costs on all items, including physical
contingencies, (estimated for both foreign and local costs at 8.0% for 1983;
7.5% for 1984; 7.0% for 1985; and 6.0% for 1986 and later years). Overall,
physical and price contingencies combined represent about 26% of the total
project cost. The cost estimates exclude all taxes and duties since the
Government would exempt the project from such charges. Detailed cost
estimates are given in Table 14 and are summarized below in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total exchange
--- (K million) ----  --- (US$ million)---   (% of
total)
Provincial Roads Rehab-
ilitation & Improvement    2.18   3.28    5.46    2.94   4.40   7.34            60
Bridge Rehabilitation and
Replacement program          1.47   2.73    4.20    1.98   3.67   5.65          65
Improvement of Highlands
and Enga Highways            4.67   8.66   13.33    6.28  11.65  17.93          65
Consulting Services            0.80   4.03    4.83    1.08   5.42   6.50          83
Technical Assistance and
Training                     0.22   1.32    1.54    0.30   1.77   2.07          85
Right-of-Way                   0.45   -         0.45    0.60   -        0.60        0
Base Costs (Feb. 1983   9.79  20.02   29.81   13.17  26.92  40.09            67
prices)
Contingencies
Physical                     1.15   2.26    3.41    1.55   3.03   4.58          66
Price                        2.36   4.60    6.96    3.18   6.19   9.36          66
Total Project Cost    13.30  26.88   40.18   17.90  36.14  54.04            67
Front End Fee on Bank loan             0.17    0.17    -        0.23   0.23       100
Hydro power study               0.15   0.74    0.89    0.20   1.00   1.20          83
Total Financing
Required              13.45  27.79   41.24   18.10  37.37  55.47          67



- 19 -
3.15      For the Highlands and Enga Highways sections, the average improve-
ment cost per km (excluding contingency allowances and right-of-way) is
estimated at about US$350,000 equivalent. Including contingencies and
right-of-way, the cost would be about US$475,000. For the two sections on
the Highlands Highway (representing about 25% of the total project cost),
the cost estimates are tentative because detailed engineering is still to be
done. For provincial roads, rehabilitation or improvement costs would average
about US$30,000 per km; including contingencies and right-of-way, the cost per
km is estimated to be about US$40,000 equivalent. Unit prices for all
construction items are based on an analysis of the cost of labor, materials,
depreciation, operation of equipment, and contractors- overhead and profit,
taking into account recent bids received for similar works. A 10% physical
contingency allowance for quantity and time overruns is considered adequate
for those project components for which detailed engineering is complete and no
special problems are anticipated. For other project components, a physical
contingency of 15% to 25% was used. Cost estimates are considered to be
reasonable.
3.16      Consulting services for detailed engineering, and supervision of
construction for project roads and bridges will require about 375 man-months
(Table 11) at a total estimated cost of US$3.7 million equivalent. These
costs are based on experience on the Second and Third Highway Projects and
amount to about 12% of the estimated construction cost for the project roads
and bridges. Consulting services for construction management of PMFA works
will require about 75 man-months (Table 11) at an estimated cost of
US$800,000. This cost is included in the estimate of construction cost for
the works involved. Consulting services for feasibility studies and
preliminary engineering for the sections of the Highlands Highway included in
the project will require about 65 man-months at an estimated cost of
US$670,000 equivalent. Consulting services for the feasibility studies and
detailed engineering of future projects will require about 70 man-months at a
total estimated cost also of US$670,000 equivalent (Table 11); consulting
services for the transport policy studies will require a total of 82
man-months at an estimated cost of US$1.12 million equivalent (Table 12).
Consulting services for feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for
the boat services projects (Table 12) will require about 40 man-months at a
total estimated cost of US$360,000 equivalent. These costs are considered
to be reasonable, are based on the cost of similar consultant's services under
previous projects in PNG and other countries, do not include contingency
allowances, and reflect the varying complexity of each consulting assignment.
3.17      Consulting services for technical assistance and training will
require a total of 156 man-months (Table 13) at a cost of about US$2.1 million
equivalent, without contingencies. These costs are based on the cost of
similar consultant's services provided under previous projects in PNG and in
other countries. For all consulting services, technical assistance and
training under the project, the man-month rate for expatriate experts is
estimated to be about US$11,000 (or US$9,500 excluding local costs for
equipment, vehicles, housing and administrative costs). The costs include
salaries, social costs, firm's overhead and profit, subsistence and other
allowances, and reimbursable items such as local and international air travel.
These costs are considered reasonable.



- 20 -
F. Financing
3.18      Financing for the Project, including its foreign exchange cost
(US$36.14 million, representing about 67% of the total cost) and about
US$580,000 equivalent of local costs incurred in connection with consulting
services and technical assistance, would require an amount of approximately
US$36.7 million equivalent; including the capitalized front-end fee on the
Bank loan (US$230,769), the amount required would be about US$36.9 million
equivalent. The Kuwait Fund has indicated its interest in providing on a
parallel financing basis, the amount of US$7.0 million equivalent. The
amount required, therefore, would be approximately US$30.0 million. However,
during negotiations the Government requested that funds to enable the
Department of Minerals and Energy to carry out a Hydropower Resources Survey
be included in the loan. Including the foreign exchange cost of this survey
(US$1.0 million equivalent), the proposed Bank loan would be in the amount of
US$31 million (para. 5.03). The Loan would include US$900,000 equivalent of
retroactive financing for project preparation work undertaken after July 30,
1982 by DTCA and DWS, through consultants (Beca, Carter and Hollings - PNG,
Cardno and Davies - PNG, and Ove Arup & Partners UK), including the cost of
traffic surveys, soils explorations and analyses. The Government would
finance the balance of the local costs of about US$17.5 million equivalent
through annual budgetary allocations.
G. Implementation
3.19      The project extends the assistance of previous transport projects
from the national to the provincial government level by financing rehab-
ilitation and improvement of provincial roads. Tables 8 and 9 show the
provincial roads and bridges on national roads for which implementation is
scheduled to begin during the first year of the project period (Category I)
and these identified for later implementation. For Categories II and III
roads and bridges included in the Project, the Government will submit by
October 31 of each year beginning in 1983, a proposed list of roads and
bridges to be implemented beginning in the following year for Bank review
and approval (para. 5.01). Chart 3 shows the implementation schedule for
Category I roads and bridges and a tentative schedule for Categories II and
III. Because of the lack of management capabilities and technical expertise
in the provinces, the provincial road component will be implemented by DWS;
after their completion, the provincial roads will be maintained initially by
DWS using its own financial resources. During negotiations, arrangements for
maintenance of the provincial roads under the project were agreed with the
Government (para. 5.01). When provincial capabilities reach a satisfactory
level, the responsibility for maintaining these roads will be transfered to
provincial governments. To expedite this process, the project will include
technical assistance and training in maintenance, through DWS, to provincial
staff. In addition, it will provide technical assistance for transport
planning, through DTCA, to provincial planners. DWS will be responsible for
project implementation, with the exception of the transport policy studies,
the boat services feasibility studies and the technical assistance for rural
transport planning which the DTCA Policy and Planning Division (Chart 1) will
handle. Within DWS, the Works Division (Chart 2) will manage rehabilitation



- 21 -
and improvement works for roads and bridges as well as related consulting
services and technical assistance. Training will be handled by the Staff
Development and Training Section of the DWS Administration Division (Chart 2)
in cooperation with the DWS Maintenance Branch which would be established.
The previous two Bank-financed road projects have been carried out through
DTCA and DWS; except for shortage of staff, no special administrative diffi-
culties are anticipated, particularly since substantial technical assistance
to these agencies has been included in the Project.
3.20      Civil works would be carried out by contract, force account and
PMFAo PMFA is a modified version of force account whereby DWS forms a project
management and monitoring team to carry out force account works whose
supervisory members are engaged through consultants. Except for the lack of
bidding, the work is then performed as if a contractor had been hired,
including provision of a priced bill of quantities and monthly bills certified
by a supervising consulting engineer. DWS will engage qualified consultants
to carry out feasibility studies, preliminary engineering and detailed
engineering where required (Table 11); to supervise civil works contracts and
PMFA works on the Highlands and Enga Highways, as well as on provincial roads
and bridges (Table 11); and to provide technical assistance and training
(Table 13). DTCA will retain qualified consultants to carry out studies
(Table 12) and to provide technical assistance to provincial governments for
rural transport planning (Table 13).
3.21      The project will be executed over a five-year period and should be
completed by mid-1988.- Contractors will be responsible for maintaining their
respective works for a 12-month period after completion. All project roads,
including provincial roads, will be maintained after completion by DWS from
its normal maintenance budget which would be increased to provide for the
additional roads (para. 5.01). A schedule showing implementation phases for
each project component is attached as Chart 3. An implementation action pro-
gram for DWS and DTCA is shown in Annex 1. During negotiations, the imple-
mentation schedule was agreed with the Government, attached to the Loan
Agreement as a Side Letter, and assurances obtained that the Government would:
(a) adhere to the agreed action programs (para. 5.01); (b) submit semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank; (c) monitor overall implementation of the Pro-
ject; and (d) prepare a completion report within six months of the Closing
Date.
H. Procurement
3.22      Prior to the appraisal of this Project, the Government had strongly
requested that the Bank permit the use of PMFA for the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff
section of the Enga Highway instead of ICB, due to the poor security situa-
tion in the area, the training benefits that could be realized, the opportu-
nity to promote the domestic construction industry, and its perception that
ICB would result in increased costs of construction. Therefore, the appraisal
mission made a thorough examination of the factors affecting the choice of an
optimal procurement method for this road section. The appraisal mission
concluded that, in the case of the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff section, ICB was
indeed the preferred method of procurement rather than PMFA for the following
reasons: (a) while security problems exist, contractor's prices and schedules
would allow for this. The costs involved were not considered to be greater
than those expected for PMFA; (b) in contrast to the situation existing during



- 22 -
the implementation of the previous highway projects, there now is sufficient
interest among the international contracting community that responsive
bidding under ICB can be expected; and (c) the Government's objectives of
promoting the domestic construction industry and of extending its training
efforts will be furthered under the Project by using PMFA to carry out part
of the works for the Watabung-Chuave section of the Highlands Highway (earth-
works and drainage) and some of the provincial road works. These procurement
arrangements (para. 3.23 and Tables 8, 9 and 10) were agreed by DWS and DTCA
during appraisal, were confirmed by the Government during negotiations and
were incorporated into the Loan Agreement.
3.23      Civil works for the improvement and paving of the Togoba-Tanbul
Turnoff and Kudjip-Minj Roads on the Enga and Highlands Highways, totaling
about US$15 million equivalent, including contingencies, will be procured
under two separate contracts through ICB in accordance with the Bank-s
Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980). Contractors will be pre-qualified.
Payments under construction contracts in PNG are made exclusively in local
currency, whether the project is externally financed or not. Since the
currency is freely convertible, this regulation does not impede international
contractors. Civil works for paving and bridges on the Watabung-Chuave sec-
tion of the Highlands Highway (totaling US$3.5 million), for selected provin-
cial road works and for bridges on national roads (totaling US$13.5 million),
including contingencies, will be procured under contracts (value of each
package not exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent) through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures which are satisfactory. The balance of the improve-
ment works for the Watabung-Chuave section of the Highlands Highway (US$5.6
million equivalent), the provincial road works and the works for the bridge
program (US$4.1 million equivalent) will be carried out by DWS, partly through
force account (day labor) and partly through PMFA in packages not exceeding
US$750,000 equivalent. During negotiations, agreement was reached between the
Government and the Bank concerning the specific form of procurement to be used
for each identified project component (Tables 8, 9 and 10), and reflected in
the Loan Agreement. During the review of each year's program, agreement will
be reached concerning the specific form of procurement to be used for Category
III provincial roads and bridges on national roads (Tables 8 and 9). Civil
works contractors will be eligible to bid for one or several packages. The
bidding will be arranged in stages so that unsuccessful bidders could bid on
subsequent rounds. Opportunities wil also be provided to domestic contrac-
tors, primarily through subcontracting portions of larger contracts or PMFA
works. The contract tender documents tinder LCB will provide for the use of
nominated subcontractors selected by DWS. For PMFA, a monitoring system
utilizing a separate consulting firm engaged for the purpose will be set up to
measure the cost effectiveness between those road sections carried out using
PMFA and those executed by contracts under ICB. PMFA will also provide for
on-the-job training of PNG engineers who will be attached to the construction
management and supervision teams.
3.24      All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost US$500,000
equivalent or more will be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement



- 23 -
documentation. Consultant services for engineering, construction supervi-
sion, studies, technical assistance and training would be obtained in
accordance with the relevant Bank Guidelines (August 1981).
3.25      Contractors will be free to choose their own construction methods,
including the most economical use of mechanical equipment and labor, subject
to their work complying with the technical specifications. While use of
labor-intensive methods will be encouraged, it would be impracticable to
stipulate that contractors should carry out the work largely by labor because
of the relative shortage of construction labor in the area, the high wage
rates and because it would be technically difficult to achieve satisfactory
quality. Nevertheless, it is expected that the works will give direct
employment, on average, to about 800 workers over a period of four years.
3.26      The Government will acquire the right-of-way, will take the
necessary steps to complete this acquisition prior to awarding contracts
and will furnish the Bank satisfactory evidence that required land and
rights to land are available for project purposes (para. 5.01). Difficulties
over right-of-way acquistion have been common in the past but the DWS Survey
Division is quite capable of handling the acquisition for the project and
the necessary arrangements to acquire the needed right-of-way are well
underway. For the first year's program, all necessary right-of-way has been
obtained.
I. Disbursements
3.27      Disbursements would be made for:  (a) 65% of total expenditures
for civil works; and (b) 100% of total actual expenditures for consulting
services, technical assistance and training. All expenditures would be fully
documented except those for civil works carried out by DWS through force
account (day labor) which would be reimbursed on the basis of statements of
expenditure certified by DWS. These reimbursements under the Statement of
Expenditure procedure will be made on the basis of a previously agreed total
estimated cost for each road or bridge in accordance with the periodic
certification by DhS as to the percentage of the work completed. Supporting
documentation would be retained by DWS and made available for review by Bank
staff. Disbursements against the construction cost of the Kudjip-Minj;
section of the Highlands Highway would be made conditional on satisfactory
completion of detailed engineering demonstrating the cost-effectiveness and
technical feasibility of the proposed improvement. For the Watabung-Chuave
section of the Highlands Highway, inclusion as part of the Project would be
made conditional on satisfactory completion of feasibility studies and pre-
liminary engineering demonstrating, the feasibility and economic justifica-
tion of the proposed improvement. Disbursements against the construction
cost of the Watabung-Chuave Road would be made conditional on satisfactory
completion of detailed engineering demonstrating the cost-effectiveness and
technical feasibility of the proposed improvement (para. 5.02). Table 15
shows a schedule of estimated disbursements which follows, with some minor



- 24 -
modifications, the regional profile in order to provide for unexpected
delays in implementation. Payments will be subject to internal audit by the
DWS and by the Government Auditor-General's Office; and the Government's
auditing arrangements are satisfactory.
J. Environmental Aspects
3.28      The project is not expected to cause any environmental or ecologi-
cal problems. No major changes in the alignment of project roads will be
made. Wider and better constructed shoulders will contribute to road
safety. Suitable design of drainage and slope stabilization will ensure that
the works will not cause or aggravate flooding, erosion or land slides.
Paving the road sections on the Highlands and Enga Highways will eliminate
the present danger and nuisance caused by dusty, slippery and muddy surfaces.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      The project comprises infrastructure improvements and technical
assistance/consultancy services aimed primarily at staff training and the
development of sound planning and operational procedures. Benefits from
such services cannot be satisfactorily quantified and have been excluded
from the economic evaluation.
B. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Provincial Roads
4.02      This component would finance the improvement of four provincial
roads whose economic and technical feasibility has been established and
whose implementation is scheduled to begin in 1983 (Category I), plus items
which would emerge from feasibility studies now underway (Categories II and
III) and whose implementation will begin in later years of the project.
Selection and evaluation procedures have been developed as part of the PRTS
and consist of three successive screens: the first excludes items not
meeting specified thresholds for population served but passes items with
strong local support. The second screen broadly compares costs and benefits
derived from engineering estimates and provincial parameters describing
production, travel and consumption responses to improved transport. The
third screen evaluates items showing positive net present values (at 10%
rate of discount): preliminary engineering is then carried out and a
definitive comparison of economic costs and benefits is undertaken. Working
papers on the identification/screening procedure and on the detailed
evaluation of the four roads are in the Project File.



- 25 -
4.03      Costs considered in the evaluation are investment expenditures,
and maintenance costs over the assumed 20-year life of a road. Benefits
arise mostly out of vehicle operating cost savings and include those accru-
ing to producers of marketed agricultural output, to travellers, and to
consumers of goods imported into the area served by the road. Agriculture
benefits represent reduction in transport costs for the current production
plus the net value of agricultural output induced by the road improvement
(after taking into account production response lags and the costs of
necessary inputs). The comparative extent of each type of benefit is
determined by field investigation to postulate yield increases and other
response rates. Benefits to travellers are reductions in trip costs to
current travellers only. The net value of new trips generated by the
improved road (particularly where the road allows access to wage-employment
activities) was initially considered as an additional benefit. Field
investigations suggested that reliable estimates could not be made of travel
demand induced by increased income. Hence, improved accessibility
benefits" are exclusively based on current trip-making patterns and, as a
further conservative step, values of time savings resulting from the
improved road have been ignored in the evaluation. Benefits to consumers of
imported goods are also measured conservatively: they reflect reduction of
transport costs and no account is taken of additional volumes of imported
freight resulting from rising incomes. Table 16 shows net benefit flows for
the provincial roads in Category I.
4.C4      Category I roads show 1982 traffic volumes of 50-300 AADT and ERRs
from 13.9-25.9% (Table 16). Category II and III roads are expected to show
a minimum ERR of 10%.
C. Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
4.05      This component would finance an initial replacement of eight
bridges on national roads whose economic and technical feasibility has been
established and whose implementation is scheduled to begin in 1983 (Category
I), plus items which would emerge from feasibility studies now underway
(Categories II and III) and whose implementation will begin in later years
of the project. Identification and initial screening of the items to be
included in the BRRP was done by DWS. Subsequently, DWS and DTCA carried
out comparisons of costs and benefits of different remedial solutions.
Traffic flows before and after improvements and the corresponding cost and
benefit streams for the eight Category I bridges are in a working paper in
the Project File. The evaluation approach is summarized below.
4.06      Increasing the load-bearing capacity of a deficient bridge on a
main road promises significant benefits: low bridge load limits at any
point of the road influence adversely traffic composition (and hence costs)
over the entire road. DWS and DTCA collected data for typical loads carried
by each class of vehicle and, after assuming the removal of bridge load
limitations, estimated the traffic composition (and the corresponding
vehicle operating cost savings) likely to result from shifting part of the



- 26 -
traffic to larger, more efficient vehicles. Benefits would emerge slowly
while all bridges on a link connecting two traffic centers are being
strengthened. The nature and rate of traffic response to bridge improvement
would vary, depending on the level of economic activity and the status of the
transport industry in the area. The evaluation method takes into account
this variable response by allowing 5-10 years for the full manifestation of
benefits.
4.07      Category I bridges show 1982 traffic volumes of 50-200 ADT and
ERRs from 10.5-174.5%. Category II and III bridges are expected to show
a minimum ERR of 10%.
D. Improvement of the Highlands and Enga Highways
4.08      Three road segments, with a combined total of about 54 km, would
be improved under this component, reducing vehicle operating costs for a
heavy commercial vehicle from US$1,117 to US$828 per one thousand kilometers,
and for a passenger car from US$184 to US$122 per one thousand kilometers
(Tables 17 and 18).
4.09      The Kudjip-Minj (13 km) section of the Highlands Highway showed
a November 1982 total traffic volume of 705 vehicles per day, resulting in an
ERR of 21.2%. A working paper, prepared by DTCA, on the economic evaluation
of this section and showing details on estimated vehicle operating cost and
maintenance savings is in the Project File. The Kudjip-Minj and the
Watabung-Chuave (16 km) sections are the two unimproved sections remaining
on the Highlands Highway. As preliminary engineering studies and recent
traffic count data for the Watabung-Chuave section were not available at the
time of negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed that DWS and DTCA
would complete preliminary engineering and economic justification studies
for this segment in order to demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed
improvements. If the feasibility results prove unacceptable, the financing
provision would be reallocated to other project components, such as
provincial road or bridge rehabilitation components. If the results are
acceptable, detailed engineering and road improvement costs would be
financed under the project.
4.10      The Togoba-Tambul Turnoff road section (25 km) is the first part
of the Enga Highway linking the Mount Hagen area with Wabag. A feasibility
study for the Togoba-Wapenamanda portion of the Enga Highway was completed
in 1980 and included, as its first part, the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff section.
Traffic estimates for this section were updated in May 1982 and show an ADT
of 305 resulting in ERR of 12.2%. Tables 17 and 18 show vehicle operating
costs on unpaved and paved roads similar to this section. A working paper
on the economic evaluation of the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff section, containing
detailed analyses of traffic and vehicle operating cost projections with and
without the proposed improvements, is in the Project File.



- 27 -
E.  Economic Rate of Return
4.11      Items whose implementation is scheduled to begin in 1983 include
four provincial roads, eight bridges on national roads, the Kudjip-Minj
section of the Highlands Highway and the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff section of
the Enga Highway (representing about 49% of the total project cost for civil
works). Taken together (Table 16) these 14 items show an overall ERR of
33.2%. Under the agreed criteria, items under preparation and proposed for
inclusion in the project ought to show a minimum ERR of 10%. DTCA has
developed an evaluation methodology acceptable to the Bank and demonstrated
capacity to apply it on proposed project items. At completion, the project
as a whole ought to show ERR of 20% or better. Table 4.1 below summarizes
ERR calculations for the 14 items for which preparatory work has been
completed under alternative assumptions concerning increases or decreases of
the cost and benefit streams.
Table 4.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ERR
Economic rate
Costs                    Benefits                        of return
(%)
As estimated . . . . . . .  As estimated . . . . . . .             33.2
As estimated . . . . . . .  Plus 10%        . . . . . . .          35.8
As estimated . . . . . . .  Minus 10%    . . . . . . .             30.5
Plus 10%      . . . . . . .  As estimated . . . . . . .            30.8
Minus 10%    . . . . . . .  As estimated . . . . . . .             36.1
Plus 10%      . . . . . . .  Minus 10%    . . . . . . .            28.3
F. Risks
4.12      Four types of risk affect the project.  First, the possibility
that costs may be higher and benefits lower than anticipated; this has been
dealt with through the conservative assumptions in the evaluation methodology
and the sensitivity analysis summarized in the preceding table suggests that
even a simultaneous increase of costs and decrease of benefits by 10% still
preserves the overall ERR above 28%. A second risk is connected with
potential difficulties over right-of-way acquisition. To reduce this risk,
construction schedules have been extended to allow for necessary protracted
negotiations. A third risk is that improvements to be financed through the
project may not be adequately maintained after completion; this is to be
dealt with through arrangements with DWS to undertake maintenance of all
project roads. The fourth risk is that the project's policy and
institutional objectives (strengthening transport planning, highway
management and maintenance, and staff training) would not be met because the
necessary expatriate staff would not be recruited according to schedule, or
because the Government would not assign sufficient numbers of national



- 28 -
officers to work with the foreign experts. To reduce this risk, the project
implementation schedule has been extended, and programs for improving
maintenance and staff training have been agreed with the Government.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) the Government to adhere to an agreed timetable for addressing the
transport sector issues, namely transport planning (paras. 1.14
and 3.08), modal deregulation (paras. 1.19 and 3.08) user charges
(paras. 1.19 and 3.08), and development of domestic contractors
(paras. 1.19, 2.16 and 3.11);
(b) the Government to prepare and furnish to the Bank for review by
July 1, 1985, a Transport Sector Development strategy and, after
taking the Bank-s comments into account, submit it to the NEC for
consideration (para. 1.19);
(c) DWS to furnish to the Bank for comments by March 31, 1984 and
subsequently implement a detailed action program for the improvement
of maintenance operations satisfactory to the Bank, including the
establishment of a Maintenance Branch and the appointment of appro-
priate national staff for training not later than December 31,
1983 (paras. 2.19 and 3.11);
(d) DWS to prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments by September 30,
1983, an action program for the implementation of a road maintenance
training program and subsequently implement a detailed training
program for its maintenance staff under the project (paras. 2.19
and 3.11);
(e) DWS to submit prior to October 31 of each year beginning in 1983,
for Bank review and approval, its proposed list of provincial
roads and bridges on national roads for which implementation is to
begin during the following year (para. 3.19);
(f) the Government to acquire all land and rights to land for purposes
of the Project prior to the award of construction contracts for the
project component(s) affected and will furnish the Bank satisfac-
tory evidence that such land and rights to land will be available
for purposes of the Project (para. 3.26);
(g) DWS to properly maintain its national road system and the provincial
roads included in the project, using its own financial resources
with adequate funds being provided for the purpose (para. 3.19); and



- 29 -
(h)  the Government to adhere to the action program for project
implementation (para. 3.21) and the action program for the
improvement of the transport sector which were attached to the
Loan Agreement in the form of a Side Letter (para. 3.21).
5.02      During negotiations, it was agreed between the Government and the
Bank that disbursements for the construction of the two road sections on the
Highlands Highway will be made only after satisfactory completion of: (i)
feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for the Watabung-Chuave Road
demonstrating the feasibility and economic justification of the proposed
improvement and thereby confirming its inclusion in the Project; (ii) detailed
engineering for the Watabung-Chuave Road, to be undertaken only if its
economic justification has been satisfactorily established, demonstrating the
cost-effectiveness and technical feasibility of the proposed improvement; and
(iii) detailed engineering for the Kudjip-Minj Road demonstrating the
cost-effectiveness and technical feasibility of the proposed improvements
(para. 3.27).
5.03      Subject to the above, a suitable basis exists for a Bank loan of
US$31 million equivalent, for a period of 17 years, including a grace period
of four years.



ANNEX 1
-30-                          Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Action Program for Project Implementation
Date
Action                                               Start              Complete
A. Rehabilitation and Improvment of Provincial Roads
1. Category I
a. Acquire necessary right-of-way            March 1983       Aug. 1983
b. Appoint consultants for construction
supervision                               Feb. 1983        Aug. 1983
c. Construction and improvement works        Aug. 1983        Sept. 1984
2. Categories II and III
a. Appoint consultants for detailed
engineering and construction
supervision                               Dec. 1982        March 1985
b. Acquire necessary right-of-way            Mar. 1983        Dec. 1986
c. Detailed engineering and letting of
construction contracts                    Mar. 1983        Dec. 1986
d. Construction and improvement works        Jan. 1984        Feb. 1988
B. Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement
Program
1. Category I
a. Let construction contracts                Mar./July 1983  Aug./Oct 1983
b. Acquire necessary right-of-way            March 1983       Aug. 1983
c. Appoint consultants for construction
supervision                               March 1983       Aug. 1983
d. Construction and improvement works        Aug. 1983        Apr. 1985
2. Categories II and III
a. Appoint consultants for detailed
engineering and construction
supervision                                June 1983       Sept. 1983



ANNEX 1
- 31-                             Page 2
Action Program (Continued)
Date
Action                                                 Start               Complete
b. Detailed engineering and letting of
construction contracts                       Sept. 1983      June 1984
c. Acquire necessary right-of-way               June 1983       June 1984
d. Construction and improvement works           July 1984       Dec. 1987
C. Improvement of Highlands and Enga Highways
1. Kudjip-Minj Section
a. Appoint consultants for detailed
engineering                                  March 1983      April 1983
b. Detailed engineering                         April 1983       Sept. 1983
c. Letting of construction contract             Oct. 1983        Feb. 1984
d. Appoint consultants for construction
supervision                                  Oct. 1983       Dec. 1983
e. Acquire necessary right-of-way               Jan. 1983        Feb. 1984
f. Construction and improvement works           March 1984       Jan. 1986
2. Watabung - Chuave Section
a. Appoint consultants for feasibility
studies and preliminary engineering          March 1983      July 1983
b. Carry out feasibility studies and
preliminary engineering                      Aug. 1983       Dec. 1983
c. Appoint consultants for detailed
engineering, if justified                    Dec. 1983       Feb. 1984
d. Detailed engineering                         March 1984       Sept. 1984
e. Letting of construction contract(s)          Oct. 1984       March 1985
f. Appoint consultants for technical
assistance in construction management    Jan. 1985           May 1985
g. Appoint consultants for construction
supervision and monitoring                   Jan. 1985       May 1985
h. Acquire necessary right-of-way               Jan. 1984        May 1985
i. Construction and improvement works           May 1985         June 1988
3. Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff Section
a. Acquire necessary right-of-way               June 1982        Dec. 1983
b. Letting of construction contract             Oct. 1983        Jan. 1984
c. Appoint consultants for construction
supervision                                  May 1983        Nov. 1983
d. Construction and improvement works           Jan. 1984        Jan. 1987



ANNEX 1
- 32 -                          Page 3
Action Program (Continued)
Date
Action                                                Start              Complete
D. Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
for Transport Policy Review, Studies, Plan-
ning, Institutional Strengthening, and Training
1. For DTCA
a. Agree TOR, appoint consultants and
carry out policy review and other
studies and transport investment
program                                     Jan. 1983       Dec. 1986
b. Agree TOR, appoint consultants and
carry out program to provide technical
assistance to provinces for transport
planning                                    Jan. 1983       July 1984
c. Agree TOR, appoint consultants and
carry out feasibility studies and pre-
liminary engineering for boat service
projects identified through the PRTS        Jan. 1985       Dec. 1986
d. Agree TOR, appoint consultants and
carry out feasibility studies, pre-
liminary engineering and detailed
engineering to prepare future project    June 1984          Dec. 1986
2. For DWS
a. Agree TOR, appoint consultants and
carry out program to provide technical
assistance to DWS for institutional
strengthening and technical training        June 1983       Dec. 1986
b. Prepare and submit for Bank review an
action program for the implementation
of the road maintenance training
program                                     March 1983      Sept. 1983
c. Agree TOR and appoint consultants to
provide technical assistance in road
maintenance to DWS and provinces            June 1983       Oct. 1983



ANNEX 1
- 33 -                           Page 4
Action Program (Continued)
Date
Action                                               Start              Complete
d. Prepare and submit for Bank review an
action program for the improvement of
road maintenance operations               Oct. 1983       Jan. 1984
e. Institute Maintenance Branch in DWS
and appoint appropriate national staff
for training                               June 1983       Jan. 1984
f. Carry out road maintenance training
program for DWS and provinces with
assistance from consultants               March 1984      Dec. 1985
g. Agree TOR and appoint consultants to
assist DWS in preparing and carrying
out a program of incentives and
assistance designed to promote the
growth and capabilities of indigenous
road construction contractors              June 1983       Dec. 1984



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page I
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project-Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A-i   The National Public Expenditure Plan, 1982-1985, Government of PNG.
A-2   Road Freight Transport Study, August 1980, Rendels Economics
(Australia).
A-3   Transport Policy and Programmed Expenditure 1979-1982, DTCA.
A-4   An Assessment of Transport User Charge Policy and Rates in PNG,
1981, DTCA.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
I. Studies and Reports
B-1   Feasibility Study of the Togoba - Wapenamanda Road, January 1980,
by Rendels and Partners (Australia).
B-2   Technical Assistance to Local Civil Engineering Contractors, Final
Report 1979, Rendels and Partners (Australia).
B-3   Transport Data Base Study, November 1981, by RPT Economic Studies
Group (UK).
B-4   Provincial Rural Transport Study, 1982, by T.P. O'Sullivan &
Partners and GITEC Consult GMBH (UK/Germany), Volumes I, II,
Planning Manual, Appendices and five Provincial Reports (nine
volumes).
B-5   Highlands Highway Project Kundiawa, Intensive Construction Group,
Final Report, 1979, Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
(Australia).
B-6   Proposed Rural Transport Works:  Engineering and Economic Studies
and Analyses, 1982 by DTCA and DWS.
B-7   Vehicle Operating Cost Savings:  Working Paper by DTCA, 1982.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
B-8   Proposed Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program:  Engineer-
ing and Economic Studies and Analyses, Phases I and II, 1982 by
DTCA and DWS.
B-9   National Road and Bridge Inventory, DWS, 1979.
B-10  Coastal Shipping Survey, January 1982, by Shiptraco (Germany).
II. Detailed Engineering Reports
B-il  Detailed Engineering for the Highlands Highway Between Waterais and
Togoba, 1974, Valentine, Laurie and Davies (Australia).
B-12  Detailed Engineering for the Enga Highway Between Togoba and the
Tanbul Turnoff, 1982, DWS.
B-13  Rural Road Links:  Preliminary Engineering Studies, DWS and
Consultants, 1982.
B-14  Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program:  Preliminary
Engineering Studies, DWS, 1982.
B-15  Bridge Replacement Program:  Phases I and II, Engineering
Assessment, and Bridge Layout Plans, 1982, DWS.
B-16  Preliminary Engineering Studies and Reports:  The Togoba-Wabag
Road - Enga Highway, May 1982 by Cameron McNamara Kramer
(Australia), 12 volumes.
B-17  Preliminary Engineering Study:  Chuave to Minj Road - Highlands
Highway, December 1975 by DWS.
B-18  Project Managed Force Account (PMFA) for Highlands Highway Project
(Kundiawa):
a. Costing Manual, 1977, DWS.
b. Management Controls and Reporting Manual, 1977, DWS.
III. Government Reports
B-19 Provincial Financial Control Manual, DWS, 1982.
B-20 Capital Works, Maintenance Programming and Administration Manual,
1981, DWS.



- 36 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 3
B-21  Planning, Engineering and Construction of Penetration Roads, 1979,
DW S.
B-22  Provincial Works Manager's Guidance Manual, 1979, alS.
B-23  Information Booklet - Staff Development and Training Division,
1981, DWS.
B-24  Local Government Technical Information Handbook, 1975, DWS.
B-25  Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Works, 1978, DWS.
B-26  Provincial Accounting Practice Manual, March 1980, DWS.
B-27  Rural Roads Manual, 1977, DUS.
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1   Parameters for Price Contingency Calculations.
C-2   Cash Flow Analysis and Contingency Calculations for Project
Components.
C-3   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis Calculations.
C-4   Detailed Cost Estimates.
C-S   Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services and
Technical Assistance.
C-6   Provincial Roads and Bridges on National Highways:
Economic Methodology and Analysis.
C-7   Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff Section (Enga Highway):  Economic Methodology
and Analysis.
C-8   Kudjip-Minj Section (Highlands Highway):  Economic Methodology
and Analysis.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Expenditures on Transport by National Government
(K million)
1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
(Est.)        (Forecast) -----
Roads
Capital works    11.6        7.0      10.5      11.7      16.4   15.0  13.8  17.1  15.7  19.0  20.0  21.0  21.0
Maintenance         9.9      13.2     18.9      16.6      17.9   10.5  12.7  14.9  14.8  13.0  14.0  15.0  16.0
Total          20.5      20.2      29.4      28.3      34.3   25.5  26.5  32.0  30.5  32.0  34.0  36.0  37.0
Wharves
Capital works      0.2       0.1       0.2       0.2       0.2    0.3   -       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2
Maintenance        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1   -       0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2
Total           0.3       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.3    0.4   -       0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.4   0.4
Aerodromes
Capital works      0;3       0.7       0.7       0.7       0.8    0.7   0.8   0.1   0.3   1.5   1.0   1.0   1.0
Maintenance         0.7       1.0       1.6       1.3      1.4    1.8   2.0   2.2   2.6   2.5   2.7   2.9   3.0
Total           1.0       1.7       2.3       2.0       2.2    2.5   2.8   2.3   2.9   4.0   3.7   3.9   4.0
Source:  DWS/DTCA.
October 1982



- 38 -
Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Infrastructure - Estimated Revenue from Rboad User Charges and
Composition of Expenditure, 1977-81
(K million)
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981
Revenue
Automotive gasoline tax                   3.2       3.3       3.4      3.4       5.6
Diesel tax                                0.4       0.5       0.5      0.5       2.6
Vehicle registration & other fees         1.8       2.0       2.2       2.8      2.2
Import duties                             5.7       5.8       8.3      9.1       9.9
Total                                 11.1      11.6      14.4     15.8      20.3
Expenditure
Capital                                  16.4      17.0     22.3      25.6      24.2
Maintenance                              17.9      18.5      22.5      25.4     25.8
Administration                            1.0       2.1       3.3       2.4      2.6
Police                                    1.8       2.0       2.1       2.4      2.8
Total                                 37.1      39.6     50.2      55.8      55.4
Notes: (1) Figures do not include revenue from the general import levy of 2.5%.
(2) Estimated policing costs are equivalent to 10% of total police
expenditure.
(3) Provincial components within expenditure totals are approximate
estimates based on partial data.
Source: DTCA.
October 1982



- 39 -
Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Roads in Papua New Guinea, 1981
(Length in km)
National                  Provincial
Province                  Sealed      Unsealed       Sealed      Unsealed        Total
Western                       -            81             4          409           494
Gulf                          -            18            3           270           291
Central (incl. NCD)         244           564            -         1,149         1,957
Milne Bay                     2            31            -           299           332
Northern                     16           416            4           367           803
Southern Highlands           31           217            -         1,238         1,486
Enga                          -            91            3           750           844
Western Highlands            54           110            10         1,016         1,190
Chimbu                        -           100            4           660           764
Eastern Highlands            25           161           15         1,265          1,466
Morobe                      167           172           22           949          1%310
Madang                       31           340           25            584           980
East Sepik                    6           189           22           873         1,090
West Sepik                    -            142            3           486           631
Manus                         -             -            2            149           151
New Ireland                   -             -            9         1,400         1,409
East New Britain             26            58          116         1,000         1,200
West New Britain             24           361             9           538           932
North Solomons                -             -           60         1,155         1,215
Total                  626         3,051          311        14,557        18,545
Note: National roads include oil palm roads in Northern and West New Britain
Provinces, Port Moresby urban roads and some "temporary" national roads
in addition to the national highways.
Sources:  1979 National Roads Inventory, selected reports and Provincial Inven-
tories and Department of Works and Supply estimates. Collated by
Department of Transport and Civil Aviation. The overall level of
accuracy for provincial road totals is low.
October 1982



- 40 -
Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet by Type, 1975 to 1979
1975        1976       1977        1978        1979        1980
Cars and station wagons         17,923      17,726      17,228      17,150      17,730      18,481
Light commercial vehicles
(utilities, vans and
4-wheel drive)                11,192      11,681      13,311      14,047      15,617      16,291
Trucks                            5,829      6,424       6,479       6,514       7,121       7,981
Buses                               885      1,125       1,497       1,987       2,397       2,870
Motorcycles                      3,815       3,866       3,436       2,892       2,860       2,351
Tractors                         1,786       1,753       1,812       1,728       1,711       1,796
Total                      41,430      42,575      43,763      44,318      47,436      49,770
Source: National Statistical Office.
February 1983



- 41 -                               Table 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Transport Statistics by Province, 1980
Motor vehicles   Km of road
Motorized   Km of    per 1,000        per 1,000
Province               Population  vehicles    roads   inhabitants    inhabitants
Western                    78,881          60        494       0.8             6.3
Gulf                       64,167         176       291        2.7             4.5
Central /a                240,003      16,194     1,957       67.5             8.2
Milne Bay                 127,841         304        332       2.4             2.6
Northern                   77,273         753       803        9.7            10.4
Southern Highlands       235,647          884     1,486        3.7             6.3
Enga                      164,476         579       844        3.5             5.1
Western Highlands         262,886       3,340     1,190       12.7             4.5
Chimbu                   178,490          590       764        3.3             4.3
Eastern Highlands         277,180       2,521     1,466        9.1             5.3
Morobe                    310,526       7,583     1,310       24.4             4.2
Madang                    211,209       2,429       980       11.5             4.6
East Sepik                220,903       1,722     1,090        7.8             4.9
West Sepik                114,119         327        631       2.9             5.5
Manus                      25,844          70        151       2.7             5.9
New Ireland                65,705         941     1,409       14.3            21.4
East New Britain          133,530       4,908     1,200       36.8             9.0
West New Britain           89,229       1,167       932       13.1            10.4
North Solomons            128,890       5,222     1,215       40.5             9.4
Total             3,006,799      49,770    18,545        16.5             6.2
/a  National Capital District is included in figures for Central Province.
Sources: DTCA, National Statistical Office, National Census Office.
February 1983



- 42-                                     Table 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Transport Output, 1975 to 1979
Estimated Vehicle-Kilometers by Vehicle Type
(Millions)
1975       1976        1977        1978        1979      1980
Cars and station wagons            300         300        290         290         300         310
Light commercial vehicles
(utilities, vans and
4-wheel drive)                   440        460         520         550         610        640
Trucks                             440         490         490        500         540         610
Buses                               60          80         100        140         170         200
Other vehicles                      60          60          50         50          50          40
Total                      1,300       1,390       1,450       1,530      1,670       1,800
Note:  These estimates derive from Vehicle Registration, tatistics, together
with assumptions on average vehicle-kilometers per vehicle type taken
from a report on Vehicle Operating Costs by Rendels Economics (August
1979).
Source: DTCA
February 1983



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Design Standards (DWS)
Maximum
Max. speed    Absolute    Desirable                                   length at      Maximum        Overall
for sight      minimum      minimum        General    Absolute       absolute        length         width
Design      distance       radius        radius        maximum      maximum       maximum      desirable       between      Pavement
Class of road    Terrain            speed       benching         curve        curve       gradient    gradient         grade          grade       shoulders        width
(km/hr)      (km/hr)          (m)          (m)          (/im)        (W/m)          (m)            (m)           (m)            (m)
Primary           Flat/Rolling         80           100        200 paved       350            .04          .07               No limit                 12/a          6.5
250 gravel                                                                             10.5
Hilly                60           80        125 paved        250           .06          .08           600         1,200            11/a           6.5
130 gravel                                                                             10
Mountainous          40           60         50 paved         90           .08          .10           250           500             8.5           6.0
60 gravel
Rural             Flat/Rolling         60            80        125 paved       250            .06          .08          600          1,200            10.5/b        6.0
class 1                                                        130 gravel                                                                              8.5
Hilly                50           60         95 paved        150           .08          .10           300           600             8.0           6.0
95 gravel
Mountainous          30           50         30 paved         50           .10          .12           250           500             7.5           5.5
30 gravel
Rural             Flat/Rolling         60            80        130 gravel      250            .06          .08           600         1,200             8.5           3.6
class 2           Hilly                40            50         60 gravel        75           .10          .12           250           500             7.0           3.6
Mountainous          25           40         20 gravel        30           .12          .14           150            300            7.0           3.6
Rural             Flat/Rolling         50            60         95 gravel       150           .08          .10           500         1,000             7.0           3.6
class 3           Hilly                 30           40         30 gravel        50           .10          .12           250           500             6.0           3.6
Mountafinous         25           30         20 gravel        30           .12           .14          150            300            6.0           3.6
Access
class 1                                                              As for rural class 3                                                              5.0           3.6
Access                                                               As for rural class 3                                                              3.6       Full width
class 2                                                                                                                                                          as required
Bridge Loading:  National Association of Australian State road Authorities (NAASRA), Bridge Design Specification (1976); Standard Vehicle Loading Class T 44.
Pavement:  Axle load 18,000 lbs (design based on projected number of repetitions of "equivalent 18,000 lbs axle loads").
/a The higher is to be adopted where traffic volume is between 2,500 and 5,000 v.p.d.
/b The higher is to adopted in rolling terrain where sight distances are limited.
Note:  DWS classifies traffic for rural roads in terms of three categories:  Light - 0 to 160 vpd (Access Class 1 & 2, and Rural Class 3)
Medium - 120 to 500 vpd (Rural Class 2 and 3)
Heavy - over 500 vpd (Rural Class 1 and 2)                                               a
Source:  Department of Works and Supply.                                                                                                                                      m
October 1982



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Provincial Roads
Fstinated   Estimated  Met',od ^f
Proposed Improvement                            cost /a        ERR     procure-
Item                                     Province            Description                             Class /e      Surfacing  (Kina million)   {x)          ment
Category I /b
1.  Sila-Itokama Road               Oro                      Rehabilitation of 36 km              Access Class 2    Gravel         r.125        l1q.        PMFA
2.  Henagaru-Tunakau Road           Eastern lilghlands       Rehabilitation of 13.5 km            Access Class 2    Gravel         0.150        25.9        PMFA
3.  Doliba-Kilau Road               Simbu                    Rehabilitation of 11 km              Access Class 2    Gravel         0.185        20.8        PMFA
4.  Mai-Nuku Road                   West Sepik               Improvement of 21 km                 Access Class 2    Gravel         0.116        13.9        PMFA
Subtotal     81.5 km                                                0.576
Category II _c
1.  Aseki-Menyamya Road             Morobe                   Improvement of 36 km including
replacement of the Kortle
Bridge                             Rural Class 3      Gravel        1.135         -         LCB
2.  Ua River-Bundi Road             Madang                   Improvement of 12.5 km               Access Class 2    Gravel         0.400         -          LCB          J
3.  Kilau-Nomane Road               Simbu                    Rehabilitation of 20 km              Access Class 1    Gravel         0.264         -          PMIFA 
4.  Manemp-Mants River-Kol Road    Western Highlands         Rehabilitation of 35 km              Access Class 2    Gravel         0.540         -          LCB          X
5.  Tsingoropa-Koinambe Road        Western Highlands        Rehabilitation of 25 km              Access Class 2    Gravel         0.504         -          LCB
6.  Wamu River-Ubaigubi Road        Eastern Highlands        Rehabilitation of 17 km              Access Class 2    Gravel         0.437         -          LCB
Subtotal    145.5 km                                                3.280
Category III /d
Other provincial road links to
be later identified (approx-
imately 5 road sections)                                                     50 km                                               1.600         -           /f
Total          277 km                                               5.456         -
/a  In February 1983 prices, without contingencies.
Tb  Category I items identified by the Provincial Rural Transport Study (PRTS).  Feasibility studies, preliminary engineering and detailed englneering for
Category I items have been completed. Category I represents the first years construction program.
/c  Category II items constitute components identified by the PRTS, for which feasibility studies and preliminary engineer4ng are underway.
Detailed engineering will follow for those roads found to be economically justified.
/d  Category III items are yet to be identified and will be included in the Project only if their economic justification can be satisfactorily
established.
/e  See Table 7 for classification details.
If  To be determined.                                                                                                                                                    H
Source:  DTCA/DWS and Mission.
February 1983



- 45-                                         Table 9
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
Total                Method of
Length  estimated  Estimated  procure-
Item                           Province/Location             (Lin. m.)  cost /a        ERR       ment
(Kina)      (%)
(million)
Category I
1. Kaugel River Bridge       West Highlands/Mt. Hagen-
Mendi Road                         55    0.300        211.3      LCB
2. Kemp Welch River Bridge  Central/Magi Highway                   78    0.380         57.3      LCB
3. Tuoima River Bridge       Morobe/Lae-Wau Road                   50    0.100        174.5      FA
4. Wasego River Bridge       Madang/Ramu Highway                   45    0.150       128.2       LCB
5. Hapmet Creek Bridge       West Sepik/Sepik Highway              30    0.165         11.5      FA
6. Gilagil River Bridge      Madang/Coastal Highway               117    0.300        10.5       LCB
7. Sikor Creek Bridge        Madang/Coastal Highway                20    0.070         25.6      LCB
8. Ulingan River Bridge      Madang/Coastal Highway                30    0.115    }              LCB
Subtotal                                                  425    1.580
Category II
1. Niumen River Bridge       West Sepik/Coastal Highway            60    0.165         -         FA
2. Akanai East Bridge        West Sepik/Coastal Highway            30    0.085         -         LCB
3. Wainingi River Bridge    West Sepik/Coastal Highway             60    0.110         -         LCB
4. Drinumor River Bridge    West Sepik/Coastal Highway             72    0.350                   LCB
5. Aitape River Bridge       West Sepik/Coastal Highway            78    0.075         -         LCB
6. Nenema River Bridge       Enga/Enga Highway                     40    0.175         -         LCB
7. Ormond River Bridge       Central/Magi Highway                  92    0.130         -         FA
8. Raihu River Bridge        West Sepik/Coastal Highway            60    0.115          -        FA
9. Waghi River Bridge        West Highlands/Highlands
Highway                           100    0.015         -         FA
Subtotal                                                  592    1.220         -
Category III
Other bridges to be identified
(approximately 15 bridges)                                      500    1.400         -         /c
Total                                                  1,517    4.200          -
/a In February 1983 prices, without contingencies.
/b Detailed engineering for Category I bridges has been completed, and is underway for
Category II bridges. Category I represents the first year's construction program.
/c To be determined.
Source: DTCA/DWS and Mission.
February 1983



- 46 -
Table 10
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Improvement of Highlands and Enga Highways
Estimated   Estimated
Length  Approx.  Improvement       cost /b        ERR        Method of
Item                 (km)    AADT       class /a       (Kina mln)      (%)       procurement
(1982)
Highlands Highway
Watabung-Chuave Road       16      500    Rural Class 1        5.000        -         PMFA/LCB
Kudjip-Minj Road           13       600    Rural Class 1       2.300       21.2          ICB
Enga Highway
Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff    25        300    Rural Class 1        6.032       12.2          ICB
Road
Total                54                                 13.332         -
/a See Table 7 for classification details.
/b  In February 1983 prices, without contingencies.
Source: DTCA/DWS and Mission.
February 1983



- 47                           Table 11
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Consulting Services - Engineering
Cost
Item                                             Estimated        (Kina /a
man-months       million)
1. Construction Supervision for Rehabilita-
tion and Improvement of Provincial Roads    45                 0.350
2. Construction Supervision
Bridge Rehabilitation and
Replacement Program                            40              0.300
3. Construction Supervision of Highlands and
Enga Highway sections                         130              1.000
4. Detailed Engineering of Kudjip-Minj
and Watabung-Chuave Roads                     90               0.650
5. Detailed Engineering of Provincial Roads
(Categories II and III)                       50              0.300
6. Detailed Engineering of Bridges
(Categories II and III)                       20               0.130
7. Feasibility Studies and Preliminary
Engineering for Kudjip-Minj and Watabung-
Chuave Roads (Highlands Highway)               65              0.500
8. Feasibility Studies, Preliminary Engineering
and Detailed Engineering to prepare future
project                                       70               0.500
Subtotal                         510              3.730
9. Construction management and monitoring
for PMFA works /b                             75               0.600
Total                                       585               4.330
/a Without contingencies. Prices as of February 1983.
/b Cost for these services included in construction cost estimates.
Source: DTCA/DWS and Mission.
February 1983



- 48 -
Table 12
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Consulting Services - Studies
Cost
Estimated        (Kina /a
Item                                       man-months        million)
1.  Transport Investment Program                                 35               0.374
2.  Transport Data Base                                           9               0.094
3.  Financial Data Reporting System                               2               0.021
4.  Port Moresby/Lae Public Transport Systems Study               8               0.083
5.  Road Freight Industry Study                                  10               0.099
6.  Aviation User Charges Study                                   3               0.031
7. Boat Services Feasibility Studies and Preliminary
Engineering                                                40              0.270
8.  Other Studies                                                15               0.128
Total                                                   122               1.100
/a Without contingencies. Prices as of February 1983.
Source: DTCA/DWS and Mission.
February 1983



- 49-
Table 13
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
Cost
Estimated        (Kina /a
Item                                                        man-months       million)
Technical Assistance to DTCA
Provincial liaison planning and training                      12            0.112
Technical Assistance to DWS
Organizational studies, management and operational
improvements                                                24            0.208
Improvements to road and bridge design and
construction supervision systems and capabilities,
including training /b                                       48            0.498
Road and bridge maintenance improvement program,
including training                                          60            0.624
Program to promote the development of the domestic
road construction industry, by providing incen-
tives and assistance to indigenous contractors              12            0.100
Total                                                156            1.542
/a Without contingencies. Prices as of February 1983.
/b Includes assistance in setting up a permanent, rolling program for bridge
rehabilitation and replacement.
Source: DTCA/DWS and Mission
February 1983



- 50 -
Table 14
PAPFUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPR0OEMERBT PR0OECT
S-rnary of Project Costs Ia
Local  Foreign   total  Local   Foreign       total    l
Proj-ct co-poceoto                             Loogth  cost   .ocheogo  toot  coot   ...ha.se/d   east  foreigo
It.o  doscriptioo                               (k.)  ---- (K  illito) ---   ---- (US$  illion) ---   aohasgs
A. lohabilitotico & Irprov.ecnt of Provi-ctol Roads
Category I
Silo-ltotaca Road                        36.0  0.050    0.075    0.125   0.067      0.101      0.168      60
H-oagaco-To..kac Rood                    13.5  0.060    0.090    0.150   0.081      0.121      0.202      60
Doliba-Kilau Rood                        11.0  0.074    0.111    0.185   0.100      0.149      0.249      60
hai-fokp Road                            21.0  0.046    0.070    0.116   0.062      0.094      0.156      60
Sobtotal                              81.5  0.230    0.346    0.576   0.310      0.465      0.775      60
Coto0ory II
Aaeki-Mcoyasya Road                      36.0  0.454    0.681    1.135   0.611      0.916      1.527      60
UR  Rivor-RBodi Road                     12.5  0.160    0.240    0.400   0.215      0.323      0.538     60
Kilau-No-ane Rood                        20.0  0.105    0.159    0.264   0.141      0.214      0.355      60
Maccop-Roots River-Kol Rood              35.0  0.216    0.324    0.540   0.290      0.436      0.726      60
Tsingoropa-Koi-a=be Road                 25.0  0.202    0.302    0.504   0.272      0.406      0.678     60
WOco  River-Ubaigubi Road                17.0  0.175    0.262    0.437   0.236      0.352      0.588      60
Subtotal                             143.5  1.312    1.968    3.280   1.765      2.647      4.412      60
Catego-y III
Other lick. to bh  ideotified            50.0  0.640    0.960    1.600   0.861      1.291      2.152     60
Sobtotal (A)                         277.0  2.182    3.274    5.456   2.935      4.403      7.338     60
B. Bridge Rohabilitatioe 4 Roplaceoent Froerac
Category I
Ktegel Ricer Bridge                             0.105    0.195    0.300   0.141     0.262      0.403     65
Ke-p Welch Rover Bridge                         0.133    0.247    0.380   0.179     0.332      0.511      65
Totina Rover Bridge                             0.035    0.065    0.100   0.048     0.087      0.135     65
Wa-reo River Bridgo                             0.052    0.098    0.150   0.070     0.132      0.202      65
Hapret Crook Bridge                             0.058    0.107    0.165   0.078     0.144      0.222      65
Gilagil River Bridge                            0.105    0.195    0.300   0.141     0.262      0.405      65
Sikor Crook Bridge                              0.025    0.045    0.070   0.033     0.061      0.094      65
Ulingan 0I1er Bridge                            0.040    0.075    0.115   0.054     0.101      0.155      65
Sobttol                                     0.553    1.027    1.580   0.744     1.381      2.125      65
Category II
Niie  River Bridge                            0.038    0.107    0.165   0.078     0.144      0.222      65
Akhaci Boot Bridge                              0.030    0.055    0.085   0.040     0.074      0.114      65
Ociciegi River Bridge                           0.038    0.072    0.110   0.051     0.097      0.148      65
Drinp=or River Bridge                           0.123    0.227    0.350   0.166     0.305      0.471      65
Ajitpe Rover Bridge                             0.026    0.049    0.075   0.035     0.066      0.101      65
Ne-e-a REvor Bridge                             0.061    0.114    0.175   0.082     0.153      0.235      65
Oreo_d River Bridge                             0.046    0.084    0.130   0.062     0.113      0.175      65
Raiho Rover Bridge                              0.040    0.075    0.115   0.054     0.101      0.155      65
Waghi River Bridge                              0.005    0.010    0.015  0.006      0.014      0.020      65
S6brotal                                     0.427    0.793    1.220   0.574     1.067      1.641      65
Category III
Other bridges to bh  identified               0.490    0.910    1.400   0.659     1.224      1.883      65
Shbtotal (B)                                 1.470    2.730    4.200   1.977     3.672      5.649      65
C. Laprove-e-t of Higblaods and etg Righ-ays
Tegohb-Tatbel T.rnoff Road                 25.0  2.111    3.921    6.032   2.840      5.273      8.113      65
Kcdjip-MOioj Rood                          13.0  0.805    1.495    2.300   1.082      2.011      3.093      65
Watahbog-Ch-avo Road                       16.0  1.750    3.250    5.000   2.354      4.371      6.725      65
Subtotal (C)                        54.0  4.666    8.666   13.332   6.276    11.655      17.931      65
D. C.o.slting Services
1. eglnoi e..g Rerric.s (DRo)
Co_otroctio_ s.pervtst.   for r-ehbilitstion
and iepr-veoeet of p-ovi.elel coeds           0.070    0.280    0.350   0.094     0.377      0.471      80
Cctsirtcti. supervsibin of bridge
rehebilitatiop a roplacenevi program          0.060    0.240    0.300   0.080     0.323      0.403      80
Co..trtctice superviioo of BHghcl-d  a-d
EBgs highvry sections                         0.200    0.800    1.000   0.269     1.076      1.345     so
Detailed cogie.eriog of provincial roads
(Categories II cod ILI)                       0.075    0.225   0.300   0.101      0.303      0.404     75
Derailed e-gineeriSg of bridges
(Categories II and III)                       0.032    0.098    0.130   0.043     0.132      0.175      75
Feasibility otedics cod preliti-ary
engineering f-r Kedjip-Mi.o and
Wbataheg-Ches-e Roads
(retracti-ve   ...anciog)                     0.050    0.450    0.500   0.067     0.605     0.672      90
Detailed e-gi..crieg of Kedjip-M4ij aod
Oatabeeg-Cheeve Reads                         0.098    0.552    0.650   0.133     0.742      0.875      85
Feasibillry stodies & detoiled egi..oriog
to prepare futrer  project                    0.050    0.450    0.500   0.067     0.605      0.672     90
Subtotal (1)                                 0.635    3.095    3.730   0.854     4.163      5.017     83
2. Stodies (DTCA)                                   0.165    0.935    1.100   0.222     1.258      1.480     85
Subtotal (D)                                 0.80    4.030    4.830   1.076     5.420      6.496     83
E. Techeical Asei.tt-ce and Trali=i
1. For DTCA:
DTCA provicciol liainon, ple..iog &
traiciog                                      0.011    0.101    0.112   0.015     0.136      0.151     90
2. For DWS:
Orgaoieaticoel etedies, oa dageoeet cod
eper-ticoal optoeve_ents                      0.031    0.177    0.208   0.042     0.238      0.280      85
IyPvoec-ts to -rd and bridge dosigo
a=d co.st..cttco oopervision systee
aed capebilitier, i.cledIeg traicieg          0.075    0.423    0.498   0.101     0.569      0.670      83
Road a-d bridge eaitteceece Inpre--eet
program. Itclodiog training                   0.094    0.530    0.624   0.126     0.713      0.839     85
Progras to pro=ote the d-velepeest of the
domestic reod reostreottio  itodetry          0.015    0.085   0.100   0.020      0.114      0.134      85
subtotol (2)                                 0.213    1.215    1.430   0.289     1.634      1.923     81
Subtotal (E)                                 0.226    1.316    1.542   0.304     1.770      2.074     85
F. Right-sf-Way                                        0.450    -        0.450   0.605    -           0.605      0
Total (A to F)                             9.794   20.016   29.810  13.173    26.921     40.094      67
G. CVia.p4encies
Physi7Il7/b                                       1.154    2.256    3.410   1.552     3.034      4.586      66
Price /c                                          2.360    4.600    6.960   3.174     6.187      9.361      66
Subtotal (G)                                 3.514    6.856   10.370   4.726     9.221     13.947      66
TOTAL PROJCT COST                          13.308   26.872   48.180  17.899    36.142     54.041      67
Is Fri coo ae of Fobroery 1983.
7T  PhysIeal cootiogoePy for civil cooke varies bt.-ec 101 sod 250, depesdi.s sn state of prep-rstien of detailed
eegloeeriag serb, sod aaticipated complesities.
/c Price iec'eses OD all items, itclodiog physial ceotieg.ncies, at estiated rae- of 8.00 fte  1983, 7.50 for 1984,
7.00 for 1985, and 6.00 for 1986 cod later years.
/d K 1.00 - US$1.3449 (Febreary 1983).
Source: DTCA. DWS, C-aceltoeco aed Mission.
Fobr-ary 1983



- 51 -
Table 15
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative disbursements
at end of semester
Fiscal Year and Semester                                  (US$ million)
1984
First                                                       1.50 /a
Second                                                      3.50
1985
First                                                       5.50
Second                                                      8.50
1986
First                                                      11.5
Second                                                     16.0
1987
First                                                      19.0
Second                                                     21.7
1988
First                                                      25.2
Second                                                     27.2
1989
First                                                      30.0
Second /b                                                  31.0
/a Includes $900,000 of retroactive financing.
/b Closing Date - June 30, 1989.
February 1983



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS FROM REHABILITATION
-AND IMPROVEMENT OF PROVINCIAL ROADS
Category I Items: Benefit Streams
(K 000)
Provincial roads                                          Bridges                                           Togoba-
S ila-   Henagaru-  Doliba-            Kaugel   Kemp                                                        Kudjip-   Tanbul    Con-
Itokama   Tunakau    Kilau   Mai-Nuku  River      Welch   Tuoima   Wasego  Hapmet Gilagil Madang-Bogia    Minj         Turnoff-  bined   Combined    Net
Year   Road       Road     Road       Road    Bridge   Bridge   Bridge   Bridge  Bridge  Bridge   Road Bridges    Road        Road      cost    benefits    flow
1   -142.3  -143.8    -173.5   -126.6   -325.0  -395. 0  -125.0  -160.0 -122.0  -373.0              -360.0    -1,512.0  -2,000.0  5,9 58.2        -     -5,9 58.2
-28.3      3.4       1.5    -10.4       673.9     73.1    130.5  198.8       3.7    10.0         16.0    -1 ,008.0  -2,452.0  3, 498.7  1,110.9  -2,387.8
-26.7      7.4       3.7      -9.4      700.1    155.0    276.6   206.8      3.8    10.0         33.9        520.7     473.0      36.1  2,391.0    2,354.9
-25.1     10.3       5.6      -8.4      728.9    246.4    439.8   215.0      3.9    92.5         53.8        546.8     487.0      33.5  2,830.0    2,796.5
5    -18.3      22.3      20.8      -2.0      758.0    348.2    621.6   223.6      4.0    10.0        76.1         574.1     516.0      20.3  3,174.7    3,154.4
-22.5      4.6    -36.0    -76.5        788.4    461.4   823.6   232.6    73.1    10.0          100.8        602.8      547.0    135.0  3,644.3    3,509.3   ,,
-1.4     51.3      52.8       16.2    819.9    586.9    873.0   241.9       4.1   113.7        128.2        632.9      580.0      1.4  4,100.9    4,099.5 5
12.9     71.2      72.4      31.9     852.7    622.1    925.4   251.6       4.4    10.0       158.6         664.6     615.0       -    4,292.8    4,292.8
39.8    102.5      99.5      52.5    886.8    659.4   980.9   261.6         4.5    10.0       192.1         697.8     652.0      -    4,639.4    4,639.4
10      59.5    120.0     111.2      66.1      922.3    699.0  1,039.7   272.1      4.6   135.0        203.6        732.7     691.0       -    5,056.8    5,056.8
66.9    104.8      50.9      -4.5     959.2    740.9  1,102.1   283.0    74.4    10.0         215.9         769.3     732.0       4.5  5,109.4    5,104.9
99.2    141.4     131.4      88.4    997.5    785.4  1,168.2   294.3        4.6    10.0        228.8        -74.2     776.0      74.2  4,725.2    4,651.0
119.3    146.8     136.2      99.7   1,037.4   832.5  1,238.3   306.1        5.0   156.4       242.5         842.2     823.0      -    5,985.4    5,985.4
124.0    152.4     141.1     103.3   1,078.9    882.5  1,312.6   318.3       5.1    10.0       257.1         890.6     872.0      -    6,147.9    6,147.9
15     128.9    158.1     146.2      107.0   1,122.1    935.4  1,391.4   331.0      5.3    10.0        272.5        935.1     907.0       -    6,450.0    6,450.0
121.6    132.6      79.3      29.1   1,167.0   991.5  1,474.9   344.3    75.1   177.9          288.9         981.9     943.0      -    6,845.1    6,845.1
139.1    169.9     156.8     114.7   1,213.6  1,051.0  1,563.4   358.1       5.6    10.0       306.2       1,031.0    981.0       -    7,139.4    7,139.4
144.5    176.4     162.3     118.7   1,262.2  1,114.1  1,657.2   372.4       5.8    10.0       324.6       1,082.5   1,020.0       -    7,491.7    7,491.7
150.0    182.9     168.0     122.9   1,312.7  1,180.9  1,756.0   387.3       5.9   199.5       344.1       1,136.7   1,061.0      -    8,051.6    8,051.6
20     155.6    277.5     280.1      127.2   1,365.2  1,251.8  1,862.0   402.8   101.8    90.0         364.7      1,193.5   1,104.0       -    8,576.2    8,576.2
ERR      13.9     25.9      20.8       13.9     211.3     57.3    174.5   128.2    11.5    10.5          25.6         21.2       12.2                          33.2     H
Source:  DTCA
February 1983



- 53 -                                 Table 17
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS (1,000 KMS) ON UNPAVED ROAD (1982 PRICES)
(KINA)
COST COMPONENT                   CAR        SMALL     MEDIUM.   HEAVY
COM.      COM.       COM.
Fuel (Litres consumed)             128        210       238        367
Cost/litre                    0.28      0.28       0.27       0.27
Fuel cost                       36         59        64         99
Maintenance
Cost of parts                   13        39         49         123
Labor
Quantity                      1.22      2.85      11.76      11.76
Cost/hour                       11         11        11         11
Labor cost                      13         31        129        129
Tyres
Number                        0.309     0.309      0.122      0.344
Cost/type                       44        40         67         205
Tyre Cost                       12         12        8          71
Crew
Number                        0           44         100        67
Cost/hour                     0         0.9        1.9        2.2
Crew cost                     0           40         190        147
Lubricating Oil
Quantity                     2.4        3.6        8.0        8.0
Cost/litre                    2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0
Oil cost                        5         7          10         16
Depreciation
Cost                            50        27         25         64
Total Running Cost              129       215        481        649
Overhead Cost factor          0.10      0.33       0.33       0.33
Overhead Cost                   13        71         159        214
Total Operating
Cost/1000 Kms                142       286        640        863
Source: DTCA
October 1982



- 54 -                                 Table 18
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RAOD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS (1,000 KMS) ON PAVED ROAD (1982 PRICES)
(KINA)
COST COMPONENT                         CAR        SMALL     MEDIUM       HEAVY
COM.        COM.       COM.         COM.
Fuel (litres consumed)                   119         214         226         387
Cost/litre                           .28         .28         .27         .27
Fuel cost                             33          60          61          104
Maintenance
Cost of parts                         3           9           22          55
Labor
Quantity                           0.52         1.16       5.87        5.87
cost/hour                             11          11          11          11
labor cost                            6           13          65          65
Tyres
Number                              0.045       0.045       0.066      0.185
Cost/tyre                             40          40          67          205
Tyre cost                             2           2           4           38
Crew
Number                                0           44          100         67
Cost/hour                             0         0.9         1.9        2.2
Crew/cost                             0           40          190         147
Lubricating Oil
Quantity                            1.2         1.8         4.0        4.0
Cost/litre                          2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0
Oil cost                              2           4           8           8
Depreciation Cost                        39          22          25          63
Total Running Cost                        85          150         374         480
Overhead Cost Factor                   0.10        0.33        0.33        0.33
Overhead Cost                            9           50          123         160
Total Operating Cost/1000 KMS         94          200         497         640
Source: DTCA
October 1982



CEARTS I
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Department of Transport and Civil Aviation
Organzation chErt
I  I  I          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I.PE
STATUTORY-BODIES             11 CVIAIATIQ.
rr     rn       Po  mnd,         m
POLICA&PLANNING                                                                                                M O  LANAGEMENTSERVICESDIVISION
EC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ST ERTR 
ciorr  An     An          AlonAyr ~~~MAlno         AETnAn                                   Am                                                                                                             I Ar.iiArrv-IrAoA-o
AIVLAVATION D             IIrAVISIONrA                                          MARlTIM    AON           AAricTRAASrrRTvDAVIrSri
Innrrvnon  v    An
to,,, v,ve,v,mm Oi mmmi,,, AAA A,H,i Am an,                                                                     Wn,IO name L  2NA
S L f , I S rtc l l Asu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ST_]   u;
LAS 
A ~S1'XHW 
TROLLER |                                          ;;                                             '  iirn-
CIILVITINDVIIO A--TMDVSO 2^PLADRNPRDVSD
SUFT .1.



CIART 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Departrment of Works and Supply
Functions and Linas of Rasp.smibility and Conmmunication
Organi,ation Chart
FIRST ASSISTANT                                                                                  FIRST ASSISTANT |FIRST ASSISTAN
SECRETARY                                                                                        SECRETARY                                                                                          SECRETARY
-OMINISTRATIONOK                                                                                                  r                                                                                    LOITIS
1A3  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E1
|ASST SECRETARY       A|  SECRTARY          ASST SECRETARY                                                                                                                                                                                              A| | OPECRTARTIN   
SERVICES           RAHETINS             ASH TRAINING                                                                                                                                    TRANSPORT             PRINTER                                 RERRCEIi
CACOANYS~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                                               MAYAFF  TEHIA  CLRIA  RANAGHR AN                                                AENN PANOPERTY
H }   {H                   ~~~~~~~~~RANSH               TRANIS    ARHl                            RRIHIOEIS                                                                                         I | 
S                           OACLAR  ADANT              L      ATN                                                                                           HAGENERAL  AERA8R
SERVICES  |          SERVICEH                                                     CNTRACSSRE
S H | Pl   ANNING                                                                                                                                                   F _ NAT50CRADPKDD1 _ LAE  _ MADAN  HT    EHA    EN _AAL
l   l  l           l    _|   80ROKD    l   A ~~~~~PHTHNDETTA |    | WEWSAK                      MENHI             S  IM8E
~~~~~~~~~~~~~L =   UNT                                      YJ l{H17 7 .1                                                                JWA.A~  -E    -EV
Tr---d   ILORENGAU  |R                                                           _|     EKETA
ST,~ RiE Dp8Rlment of RIOIISPRIT and Civil AR,O,TTo                                                                                                  
j-11,{ 982



- 57 -
CHART 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementaflon Schedule
CY       1983             1984             1985             1986             198 7            1988             1989
EVEWT-                              
EVE.'9T   1   2   3  4    1   2    3   4      2   3    4   1   2   3  4   1   2   34    1   2   3    4    1   2   3   4
I. IMPORTANT EARLY ACTMTIES
A BOARD PRESENTATION - 3/29/83
B. LOAN EFFEC'TIY - 6/30/83                         1
C. SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS
II. IMPILEMENTATION                                          //  /             7   7             7  7                    /        , 7             //  /
A REHABILITATION & TMPRCNF'EMENT OF                       . .  .          . .
PROVINCLAL ROADS
1. Category I
a. Mai-Nuku RoadC
b. Dollba-KElau Road
c. S9a-Itokamc Road
d. Henagaru-Tunakau Road
2. Category II
a. Tsingoropa-Koinambe Road                                                                                              =II II T   Y - m   U   -  U   -  U  . -   U
b. Manemp-Mants Rlver-Kol Road                       i I _    -  U _       - _ _       -       -   U   -
c, Aseki-MenyomYa Road            r                                                                               ME _   _   -  -   -  -  _  -   -  I
d, Lla River-Bundl Road                      mom it                                         _ -  U   U   -  * -  -   -  -
e, Kailu-Nomane Road                             as ii            -            U   -
f. Wamu River-Ubaigubi Road                                                i    r  -   -  m   - _       -  m   m                    T
3, CATEGORY                                 U                                     " -  - |         - s      U U T       -  - -. 
B. BRIDGE REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT
PROGRAM
ICategory I
a, TuOiomra
b. Wasego                               i                                                                                   i
c. KempWelch                                                                M   mo U   -  m   U  m   -  _
d. Sikor                                  I
e.UlinganII
f. HapmnetI
g. GlIagullii-m - -m- m i
h. Kaugel                                i -              - U          U U             El Im
2. CaTegory If                                                                                
3. Category ]iIiim - -U - m U                                                                       U -U            UI                          
C. IMPROvEMENTS TO HIGHLANDS AND
ENGA HIGHWrAYS
1. Togoba-Tanbul Tumoff Road                                                                                              a |    -   m   -   -  -m-
2. KudJip-MInj Road                        a             U   - _      -   -  U   -   U                * 
3. Watabung-Chuove Roaa dii Iii -  -                                                       m-   -- i                U                -
DOONSULTiNG SERMCES AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE FOR POLICY REvEW AND
INSTrtTLONAL STRENGTHENINSG
1. PollcyReviewStudles                                                                U   U  -   -
2, Instltutional Strengthening
a. DTCA Provincial Liaison              -        -    - -     U
b. DWS Inst. Strengthening                   -  -        -- 11-_
c. DWS Rds. and Bridge Maintenance.
Program, Including Training                             -  U   -         U       U  I    I    I -                r        r I -        _        r
3. Development of Local Construction
Industry                                                                         amB 
E. RIGHT-OF-WAY ACQUISMTON                    -       -                -        -   U   -  -
Legend (CMI Works)
-   m     - *      'Continuation of Program (later phases) Not Included In This Project    IIIIIIUEUEIg Tendering and Award Period
Constructlon                                                               RainySeason
-  --  - . Guarantee Perold
February 1983                                                                                                                                         Worid Bank-24746






1 R A N  J A Y A  (INDONESIA)
47
4
Y                                                        jg4
3 lx A6
411
A
%
A
(+
JIC)
4
J
C'7
>
>
z  >
0
gz
m C.)
M     rn
>
3t
r-Y
m






________________________________________                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 16665 Ri
44?                                                                                                                     153,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50io  FEBRUARY 1g88
PAPUA~ NMP UINEA'
WEST               .                ~~ROAD IAMPROVEMENT :PROJECT                                                   'yGA
5ff P/K  FAST 5ffPlK                               PRO:JECT COMPOJNENTS 
3- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~        N
A,Iape      jij          I   ~~~~~~    ~~                       A/sm    cr;ck                       NEW                                '~~~d~TANGA 15LANDS
~A4 A  (/          NEW           ReIANO                             Nntni
(YVfENI ISLANDS
(9      (9                           /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WEST r N F W  B A RT~A/A
Id~~~~~~I
'- -w'~-----' NEW BRITAIN          PROPOSED PROJECT
Highland and Enga Highways Sections
2                                                                           .                         F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A S T  Provincial Roads (Categories:I & U
K.'        /GHIANP1            0       K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~:OA4ORQBF                           NEW: 8 RI TA IN:                8('ricgfs (Category I)
PEIOU)S PROJECTS
K,IoH  B  Ia                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R6oclConstruction antd lmnprovemoenf*
:e$iiystvdies*
WESTERN             \                                                                                              /                         a  a                     fFIRST PROJECT LoAN 693 CREDIT 204 RNO
0  0  i~~~~~~~                   * ~~~SECOND PROJECT CREDIT 677 PNO 
_    .                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THIRD PROJECT LOAN 1856 CREDIT 1030 PNG
Ke~ea~o     '..-~.-.,--,-- -------*--,--y--------'----~----7' -*               0     Projects by Other Agencies
'0             NORTHERN              I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----f~uture Major Roads (National)
"~~~~~~~~"                            / ~~~~~~~~~~~~Nctios l Rads
or                            'N                                   I                                          Maj~~~~~Zor Provincial Roads
~~ c~~~~   5e~~~~a~~~~          P'opoadett.    "/K                                                          zcCRive rs
/                       ..      ~~~~~~~~~Mountainous Areas (2O00O-3O0QOMeters)
9~~~~                    I   ~~~~~~                 v,,~~~~~~~  ~~~~--.--~~~~~~~~;~~~~  I                               -  - ~~~~~~~~District Boundaries
----'~~~~~~.  GUlf   ~~~~~~~.     ~~~          2roBoY.;          I                                  -    -- ~~~~~~~~~~jriternationai Boundaries
/                    N      I PORTMOR    BY            K                -.                                                                j'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.o  PH UPPINj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sc,_~'PHL,6IF
LNATIONL HIGHWASI                                            t~                                       4~;-~AA0
Q  NIRITANO HIGHWAY  G      CFNTRA(                                                                                                (7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~    PAPuA NEW OIJINEA~PAUANEWGUNE
KI'RITANO, HiG        0 ~ENA :HIGHWAYI) KNP- I                                                                                                                                               '
MA~Gf (I2)WA                        HIGHLANDS HIGH-WAY,                                                                                                                        ..... 
I RJHGHWAY       0  RAMu HIGHWAY         rKILOussssS L    0    R    120   ES     K                                                                                    r~o
NATIOA  H:HWY) COASTAL: HIGHWAY                              MILES                                                       -                                                                           Mhwu*0r  NINAPE 
0   SOuTHERN HIGHL~ANDS HIGHWAY    6tNEW BRITAIN ~HIGHWAY             0 A    46    010~~- 
L                                                                                                                                                                  f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17~-.,-'~AA U  T R A. L



