Document of                      FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3406-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$31.0 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 3, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981             February 1983
Currency Unit  -  Papua New Guinea Kina (K)            K
US$ 1.00       =    K 0.67                    K 0.7435
K 1.00         =    US$1.487                  US$1.3449
K 1 million         US$1,487,000              US$1,344,900
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                         British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                 =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 linear meter (1m)         =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)       0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                  2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton                =   2,204 lbs or 1.102 US short ton (sh ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
BLC      =  Bougainville Copper, Ltd.
CPI      =  Consumer Price Index
DME      =  Department of Minerals and Energy
DTCA     =  Department of Transport and Civil Aviation
DWS      =  Department of Works and Supply
ERR      =  Economic Rate of Return
ICB      =  International Competitive Bidding
ICO      =  International Coffee Organization
LCB      =  Local Competitive Bidding
NEC      =  National Executive Council
NPEP     =  National Public Expenditures Plan
PMFA     =  Project Managed Force Account
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL UEt ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Beneficiaries:    Department of Transport and Civil Aviation (DTCA), Depart-
ment of Works and Supply (DWS), and the Department of
Minerals and Energy (DME).
Amount:            US$31.0 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Financing Terms:  The proceeds of the loan would be allocated to DTCA, DWS
and DME through the National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP)
and through budget allocations.  The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk and the interest rate risk.
Project            The project represents the first attempt to improve
Description:    transport facilities at both national and provincial
levels. In addition to increasing rural mobility through
rehabilitation and improvement of roads and bridges, the
project's objectives are to improve highway maintenance
through the establishment of an efficient management
system and to assist in developing the road transport and
construction industries. The project also aims to assist
in establishing a strategy for transport sector develop-
ment leading to policy action plans and associated invest-
ment programs. The project includes: (a) rehabilitation
or improvement of about 15 provincial road segments; (b)
rehabilitation or replacement of about 32 bridges on
national roads; (c) improvement of two sections of the
Highlands Highway and the first section of the Enga
Highway; (d) consulting servtces for project
implementation, for transport policy studies and for
preparation of related transport investment programs; and
(e) technical assistance in transport planning, highway
maintenance, training and improvement of the domestic road
construction industry. Funds to enable DME to carry out a
survey of hydropower resources are also included in the
loan amount.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:           Rehabilitation and improvement of provincial roads would
promote increased economic activity, reduce the cost of
transport and improve access to health and educational
services. Rehabilitation and improvement of national
highways and bridges would provide lower cost, safer and
speedier access to various areas of the country, and
would encourage economic development.
Risks:              Delays in appointment of consultants and their national
counterparts, in procurement and in right-of-way acquisi-
tion have been problems in earlier projects; efforts
have been made to avoid similar delays in this project by
extending implementation schedules and by assuring the
completion of right-of-way acquisition for the civil
works to be undertaken in the first year. Lack of
maintenance on project provincial roads after their
completion is another risk which has been reduced by
arranging for DWS to undertake initial maintenance of all
project roads and bridges.
Project Costs:/l                                          Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ million) ----
Rehabilitation and improvement of
provincial roads                       2.9      4.4       7.3
Rehabilitation or replacement of
bridges on national roads              2.0       3.7       5.7
Improvements to sections of the
Highlands and Enga Highways            6.3      11.6     17.9
Consulting services                      1.0       5.4       6.5
Technical assistance and training    0.3           1.8       2.0
Right-of-way acquisition                 0.6       -         0.6
Base Costs (Feb. 83 prices)           13.1     26.9      40.0
Physical contingencies                   1.6       3.0       4.6
Price contingencies                      3.2       6.2       9.4
Total Project Cost                    17.9     36.1      54.0
Hydropower survey                        0.2       1.0       1.2
Front-end fee                            -         0.3       0.3
Total Financing Required              18.1     37.4      55.5
/1 Excluding taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
---- (US$ million) ----
IBRD                                     0.6      30.4     31.0
Government                              17.5       -       17.5
Kuwait Fund                              -         7.0      7.0
Total Financing Provided              18.1      37.4     55.5
4_
Estimated Disbursements:Jl    Bank FY    1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
---- (US$ million equivalent) --
Annual                     3.5   5.0   7.5   5.7   5.5   3.8
Cumulative                 3.5   8.5  16.0  21.7  27.2  31.0
Rate of Return: 20%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4184-PNG dated March 8, 1983.
Map No: IBRD 16665R1
/1 Includes US$1.0 million for hydropower survey.



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea for the equivalent of
US$31.0 million, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a
road improvement project and a hydropower survey. The loan will have a term
of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable rate.
The Kuwait Fund has expressed an interest in providing cofinancing in an
amount up to about US$7.0 million on a parallel basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Development Policies
and Prospects for the 1980s" (Report No. 3544a-PNG), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. This section reflects the findings of
that report and subsequent economic missions, and draws from recent IMF work
on Papua New Guinea (PNG). Details of recent economic data can be found in
Annex I.
Structure of the Economy
3.         Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains, rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely scattered
islands. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral
resources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential.
The capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an
enclave, with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest
urban settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. Per capita
GDP in 1981 was US$820. The population as of mid-1982 was about 3.0 million,
spread among 19 provinces (with populations ranging from 26,000 to 310,000),
each with its own parliament and separate administrative apparatus.
4.         The modern sector of the economy is dominated by copper mining and
associated investments and by the public sector. In the late 1970s copper,
through Bougainville Copper, Ltd. (BCL), accounted for about 15% of GDP; by
1982 this had fallen to 6.5% as prices declined sharply and as the more pro-
ductive veins were being exhausted. The Ok Tedi mine is thought to have
contributed about 3% to GDP in 1982 (largely through capital investments);
this is expected to grow to perhaps 12% of GDP in 1987, thus more than
compensating for the decline in BCL. Non-mining industry accounts for about
9% of GDP -- low for a country of PNG-s per capita income -- while government
services, heavily dominated by expatriates in the upper ranks, account for
about one-quarter of the total. Strikingly, the primary sector, which
employs about 85% of the labor force, only contributes about 35% of GDP,
a large portion of which is in the subsistence sector.



- 2 -
5.        PNG's growth record has been quite mixed; for the decade of the
1970s as a whole, per capita growth was negative at -0.2% per annum despite
the strong growth in copper exports. The latter half of the decade was even
worse in per capita income terms (-0.5% per annum) despite some good years,
particularly 1978-79. The terms of trade effects on GDP during the seventies
were roughly neutral. However, the years 1980 and 1981 showed an average
decline of per capita income of about 4% per year, and in these years the
terms of trade effect did begin to bite as the Government cut back services
and restricted the growth in the money supply to protect the balance of
payments and the value of the Kina. The terms of trade effect was a negative
10% of GDP in 1981; the terms of trade loss is expected to have worsened to
about 15% percent of GDP in 1982 and to improve only slightly over the
following five years. Growth, on the other hand, is expected by the
Government to average 4.5% through 1987 (2.2% per capita), largely because
of investments (direct and induced) and exports associated with the Ok Tedi
mine. While growth rates are likely to improve somewhat as a result of the
impact of Ok Tedi, continued poor agricultural performance, together with a
prudent demand management policy (to protect the balance of payments as well
as the value of the Kina) may result in continued sluggish growth. Although
PNG is now actively seeking to reduce real wages to stimulate investments,
this policy -- imposed at a time of austerity -- may not succeed if the
demand for labor arising from the construction of the ok Tedi mine and
related activities gives renewed impetus to wage demands.
6.        The economy has been severely affected by the sharp drop in
commodity prices that began in 1980. The price of copper dropped to its
lowest level in 30 years, leading to a drop of K 60 million in the Mineral
Resources Stabilization Fund reserves between 1981 and 1983. The prices of
agricultural export commodities have fallen by half since the late 1970s.
Lower export receipts will depress economic activity and reduce imports.
Exports are not expected to regain their 1979 level until 1984, when gold will
begin to be exported from the Ok Tedi mine. After taking account of the
budget support grant from Australia, the current account deficit in 1982 is
estimated to have been about US$430 million, or about 9% of GDP. With other
official and private capital flows as projected, the expected deficits will
be covered without undue strain on reserves or the debt-service ratio. The
role of the Australian grant is significant in supporting higher levels of
government expenditures, GDP and imports than would otherwise be possible
with PNG's own resources.
7.         In view of the fact that most of its export prices have been subject
to fluctuations, often sharp, the Government has taken a number of measures
to reduce the impact on the general economy and on the producers of export
crops. The Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund was designed to smooth the
impact of Fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and stabilization funds for
coffee, cocoa and copra were designed to reduce the oscillations in prices
received by the producers. While these funds for agricultural products have
had the effect of dampening price-induced supply responses, they have



-3 -
Contributed to the stability of the economy. For the most part they
have shielded producers from income declines, and their total resources are
still relatively healthy as a result of substantial levies accumulating in the
late 1970s, when export prices were at historical highs.
8.         Following the establishment, prior to independence from Australia
in 1975, of the Minimum Wage Boards between 1972 and 1976, real minimum
wages more than doubled in that period, giving PNG the highest wage costs of
the developing countries in the region. Since independence, two three-year
wage agreements have limited the rise of both public and private sector
wages to that of the consumer price index, subject to a present annual
maximum of 11.75%, thus ending the sharp upward spiral of real wages that
occurred during 1972-76. The wage situation was accompanied by a "hard
Kina" policy causing the Kina to appreciate vis-a-vis PNG's major trading
partners, which had the effect of dampening wage demands and keeping down
prices of imports (40% of GDP by value). This tended to offset somewhat
imported inflation, so that the increase in domestic price levels has
averaged about 7.5% between 1977 and end-1982 as compared with the interna-
tional inflation index of 8.7%. Price levels over 1981-82 have moderated
further to about 4.5%, which is probably as much a reflection of the fall in
business activity as it is of the moderation of import prices.
9.         Increasingly concerned about the negative impact of high real wages
on the economy, the Government has decided to seek to impose a three-year
freeze on urban wages. This measure, which may be politically difficult to
implement, will involve a strategy by which the first five percentage points
of domestic inflation would not be compensated; thus a 5% increase in the
CPI could not be compensated at all, and a 13% increase in the CPI would be
compensated by an 8% wage increase. Youths up to 19 years of age would only
be paid 50% of the basic wage. This policy, if successful, should tend to
restore profits and land rents, and should begin to improve the relative
competitiveness of Papua New Guinea-s exports.
10.       The Government has also responded to its straitened circumstances
by raising taxes in 1982 and 1983 in face of a deflationary situation,
lowering government expenditure by 10% in the latter year, and laying off
3,000 employees, about 6% of the total public service. Nonetheless, the
public deficit in 1983 is expected to reach K 163 million, or 10% of
estimated GDP, about the same relative gap as resulted in 1982. As was the
case in 1982, none of this will be financed by borrowing from the Central
Bank. Borrowings from foreign commercial banks are expected to amount to
about US$80 million in 1983, as compared with US$100 million in 1982.
Development Strategy and Planning
11.       In the post-independence period a concerted effort was made to
define a set of economic and social priorities according to which government
resources were to be allocated. However, as noted above, more weight has been



- 4 -
given to developing a viable economic strategy and a decision-making process
for the budgeting of government resources than to the preparation and
implementation of a comprehensive development plan. While a "National
Development Strategy" has been defined and strategic objectives identified
as the basis for resource allocation, these have not represented a basis for
a growth-oriented development strategy as such.
12.       The National Development Strategy instead places a high priority on
improving the quality of life for the rural population, focusing on rural
development in the less developed areas of the country. A second objective
is the development of a few large natural resource projects aimed at reducing
the present, very heavy, reliance on aid and leading towards economic self-
reliance. The first objective recognizes not only the agricultural potential
of the country, but also the fact that for quite a few generations the
agricultural sector will be the main source of income generation and employ-
ment. The second objective, while not directly benefiting the vast majority
of the population, is intended to provide a resource base for the financing of
development programs. Implementation of the second objective clearly entails
the importing of foreign capital and expertise, for which PNG has been very
open -- particularly with respect to minerals investments.
13.       To carry out its development strategy, the Government established
the annual National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), a rolling four-year
plan for the public sector which focuses political decision making on nine
strategic objectives and the tradeoffs among them. While the basic aims of
the NPEP are to link the planning process with overall economic policy and
to direct public spending to the activities that have the highest national
priority, its coverage is limited to new projects and forward planning is
only carried out for one year. The first NPEP accounted for only 4% of the
1978 expenditures (K20 million), but subsequent plans have been covering
increasing portions of the budget as government revenues have grown. In the
1983 budget, the NPEP encompassed more than one-quarter of total expendi-
tures. Implementation of NPEP projects has been delayed by lack of staff
and experience, but the record is gradually improving. In effect, the NPEP
process emphasizes the management of recurrent costs associated with capital
projects, but is not, strictly speaking, geared to development.
Development Issues
14.       The major factors which will affect the Government's ability to
promote economic development are the decentralization of government activi-
ties, the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and financial
resources, and the willingriess to take new initiatives in policy formulation
and investment in the agricultural sector.
15.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the national Government's ability to pursue its priorities,
while inadequate staffing interferes with the ability of the provinces to



develop their own plans.  PNG's topography has made it a country of
scattered tribes, with no great sense of national unity, and a degree of
political decentralization was a necessary response to secessionist
pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory and
financial control in some areas and will share power with the National
Government in others. Provincial governments are financed through national
government conditional and unconditional grants, national government refunds
of certain revenues and, to a very limited extent, their own taxation
measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend according to
their own priorities, are by far the most important source of finance, but
while in the 1982 budget they comprised over 70% of the total receipts of
4          the provinces, they amounted to less than one-quarter of total national
government revenues. One of the most serious problems facing provincial
governments is the shortage of trained and experienced staff, and the most
urgent priority of the provinces is to develop the capability for budgeting,
planning, and project identification and preparation.
16.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled
manpower and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has
made substantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals,
especially considering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its
first graduates as recently as 1972. However, the country still relies
heavily on expatriates for many necessary services. This situation has
created a relatively high-cost government and a dependence on the Australian
grant (now equal to about 10% of GDP) to help meet these costs. In the
public sector, localization has reached an overall level of 90%, compared to
80% in 1971, but at the higher levels of skill, requiring post-secondary
education, the proportion of nationals is still only around 40%. The
shortage of qualified staff is reflected in the existing vacancies in
government, and in some departments the shortages of professionals are
critical. The establishment of provincial governments is adding to the
pressures on existing staff, and the policy of localizing positions held by
expatriates adds to the demand for trained Papua New Guineans. While
various training programs have been established to fill these needs, they
have thus far proved inadequate.
17.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance emphasize
modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure accom-
panied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid from Australia. Domestic
revenue accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68, 60% of
the total in FY76 (immediately after independence); and 68% in 1981. Over
the past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine has been a major source of
domestic revenue, averaging 18% of the total and reaching a peak of 27% in
FY76, but falling to 6.5% in 1982. While mineral revenues will be largely
restored when the Ok Tedi mine becomes fully operational in 1984, revenues
from these sources may not regain their former share of overall revenues.



6-
Thus if agricultural commodity prices remain depressed, the Government may
well have considerable difficulty in managing a more rapid phase-out of
Australian aid after 1985/86.
18.      Capital expenditiures (including those financed by external assist-
ance) as a share of the total budget have been relatively modest. While
these expenditures doubled between 1978 and 1980 (to reach 15% of the total
budget), they dropped by one-third in 1981 and have stagnated at those
nominal levels -- 9-10% of the total budget -- since then. While in the
past the availability of the Australian grant, together with substantial
revenue from the mining sector may have contributed to a certain laxity in
financial discipline in the area of current expenditures (particular'ly for
wages and salaries), this situation Ino longer prevails.  Even with fairly
substantial increases in taxes over the period (b-ut excluding the Australian
grant) government revenues stagnated between 1980 and l98S3 and the
Government is undertaking a 10% cut in current and capital expenditures and
substantive reduction of the size of the pub'lic service.
19.       While economic management has been largely sound and a nominal
framework for plarning economic development has been evolved, the country's
growth performance has been disappointing, averaging somewhat less than the
rate of population growth over the 1970s. Of particular concern is a lack of
growth in the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the
additions to the labor force in the foreseeable Luture. Despite a great
potential for agricultural development, even with the current world price
situation, investment in the sector remains low, and its prospects for the
coming decade are not bright unless steps are taken to bolster its growth.
The major constraints have been inadequate extension services for small-
holders, a lack of finance, land laws which prevent the consolidation of
holdings too small for economic redevelopment, a shortage of managerial
talent, and legislation designed to encourage the transfer of foreign-owned
plantations to Papua New Guineans, which has been a serious disincentive to
reinvestment. The Government recognizes the gravity of the situation and
has taken some initiatives to improve it, including suspension of the
plantation redistribution legislation, measures to supply management skills
to Papua Nlew Guinean-owned estates, and steps to reorganize extension
services. The country faces a particularly serious problem in the area of
coffee.  Producticn of this crop has fared better than other major agricul-
tural exports, with production now about 50% over quota.  Unfortunately,
sales to the non-ICO market brirg a price 40% below the IC0 price.  The
Government recognizes this problem and intensive studies on crop
diversification will be undertaken.
External Sector
20.       PNG exnerienced huge trade deficits prior to the introduction of
copper exports in FY73.  The current accouat deficit ivas around one qtarter
of GDP in the early 1970s.  r ports w-ere over 50% of GDP, whereas exports were



- 7 -
only about one-third as high. Since FY73, however, earnings from copper
exports have dwarfed those from other commodities, and, except for small
deficits in FY75/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on current
account, which includes the large Australian grant, remained positive, despite
large service payments, and reserves of foreign exchange reached ten months'
worth of imports in mid-1979. However, falling commodity prices, a decline in
the copper content of the Bougainville mine and contained inflation in the
import sector have dramatically changed the situation, with the current
account turning from a positive K55 million in 1979 to a negative K260 million
(15% of GDP) in 1981.
21.       The current account position is likely to be in poor shape until
the end-1983 at least, with the deficit up by 75% -- and assuming the
Australian grant below the line -- between 1980 and 1982. This will be the
case not only because of the adverse commodity price situation, but also
because requirements for the construction of Ok Tedi will cause imports to
grow faster than exports. Especially with the help of Ok Tedi gold exports
and continuing conservative demand management, exports will begin again to
exceed imports and the resource balance will turn positive by the mid-1980s.
PNG is likely to require an average net capital inflow of over US$200 million
p.a. (in 1981 prices) through 1990, but the bulk of it will come in 1981-86,
when the minerals sector will finance over half of the inflow through direct
foreign investment and borrowing. If the rest of the capital requirement is
met by concessional loans and through official borrowing on terms similar to
those recently obtained by the Government in world capital markets, the
result would be a small increase in debt service requirements. Assuming
a small improvement in growth rates (to 3.5% p.a.), debt service ratios would
rise to about 10% by mid-decade (the 1981 level was 6.1%) to fall to around
3% in 1990. Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1981
amounted to US$757.0 million, of which US$191 million (25%) was owed to the
Bank Group. Debt service payments to the Bank group are only 11% of total
debt service payments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
22.       As of September 30, 1982, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of 10 loans and 13 development credits, totalling US$213.9 million.
The first operation was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million approved
in 1968; the most recent, a petroleum exploration technical assistance project
of US$3.0 million approved by the Board in July 1982./1 Project implementa-
tion has been satisfactory, though the first rural development project in the
Southern Highlands is experiencing some difficulties with recruitment of
/1  This credit was signed on November 5, 1982, but has not yet become
effective due to delays in arrival of Project Manager.



- 8 -
essential expatriate staff. The rapid turnover of expatriate staff and the
transitional problems of recruiting and training their replacements have led
to delays in project monitoring and auditing but physical implementation has
progressed approximatelvy on schedule. As of September 30, 1982, seven
credits and six loans were fully disbursed, and the effective loans and
credits to Papua New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$196.6
million.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       In more recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture
with strong support in education and transport and some lending for energy.
The Bank's strategy for future lending is based on three objectives:
(a) support for more growth-oriented policies and institutions; (b) develop-
ment of lar-e-scale opportunities for permanent cash economy employment based
on the substantial agricultural resources of the country; and (c) promotion
of human resource development. In FY83, along with the Petroleum Technical
Assistance Project referred to above, a loan for an agriculture support
services project is planned. A third agriculture credit project, a secondary
education project, and a nucleus estate project are planned for FY84.
24.       The Bank's purpose in lending for transport is basically to support
agricultural development,  for which the physical integration of the country is
essential. Bank projects in the sector will strongly emphasize road mainte-
nance, development of local contractors and training of PNG civil engineers.
The proposed proiect represents the first attempt to improve transport facili-
ties at both the national and provincial levels. In addition to increasing
rural mobility through rehabilitation and improvement of roads and bridges,
the project will assist in (i) establishing an efficient highway maintenance
system; (ii) developing the road transport industry; and, (iii) establishing a
strategy for transport sector development in PNG.
25.       Disbursement performance on Bank Group projects has been extremely
varied, ranging between 70% and 21% during the period from FY77-81. Just
after independence disbursement rates were unusually high, reflecting the
relatively small and simple pre-independence projects and the fact that they
were managed by an experienced expatriate civil service. The disbursement
rate for FY82 was 11.5%, substantially below the Bank-wide average of 23.9%,
and the 26.6% average for other countries in the Region. Disbursement rates
for two comparator countries, Columbia and Morrocco, were 32.0% and 13.7%
respectively in FY82~ Slow disbursements in PNG reflect current delays in
appointment of project accountants, problems with land acquisition and weak
project management. Each of these prob7lems is being specifically addressed
in the context of project supervisione



- 9 -
PART IIT - TTE SECTOR
27.       PNG is a sparsely populated island nation, with widely scattered
centers of economic activity. The transport system reflects the country-s
geography, topography and population distribution. It relies heavily on
interisland and coastal shipping for freight transport and on air transport
for passenger movements. Difficult terrain and a small population in a
large area have promoted sea and air transport and have prevented the
development of an inter-connected network of national roads. In general,
projected traffic between main centers is too low to support the cost of
4          constructing and maintaining high standard roads, with the exception of the
Highlands Highway connecting Lae with Mount Hagen and Mendi. The trucking
industry is also at an early stage of development, except in the Highlands
Highway area.
28.       The Government is aware of the inadequacies in the transport
system. Tariffs are high, transport operations overregulated, the safety
record poor, maintenance expensive, and management of operations largely in
the hands of expatriates. Since domestic construction capacity is in its
infancy stage, major works require foreign contractors. Provision of
improved services to the rural areas, where most of the people live, is a
political necessity for the Government, and better land transport has the
highest priority. Demands to extend and improve the road network thus
exist, but at the same time, there are pressures to reduce the recurrent
budget, to limit expatriate recruitment, and to press forward with
localization and provincialization.
Air Transport
29.       Since the 1920-s, air transport has been the principal means of
access to the PNG hinterland, and up to 1965, the development of the Central
Highlands was entirely dependent on air transport. PNG has 425 operational
airports and airstrips; the national airline, Air Niugini, operates
scheduled flights to 18 of these airports. Air Niugini has exclusive
regional traffic rights under its charter, but it is experiencing managerial
and financial difficulties. This monopoly increases air transport costs and
inhibits the efficient growth of the air transport industry because small
commercial operators are obliged to operate higher-cost, small aircraft and
are not allowed to compete either with Air Niugini, or among themselves.
Ports and Shipping
30.       PNG has some 418 ports of various size in the country, sixteen
major ports are managed by the PNG Harbours Board and two by mining
companies. In 1980, overseas cargo through the major ports amounted to



- 10 -
3.7 million tons and coastal cargo 0.8 million tons. The major ports are
well equipped and serviced by 15 expatriate shipping companies. Minor ports
are serviced by 176 smaller boats. The proposed poriect will provide for
feasibility studies of several boat service projects which are expected to
improve access isolated communities.
Highways
31.       The total road network in PNG comprises about 19,000 km of which
about 940 km are sealed. Because of the high construction costs caused by
the extremely mountainous terrain and heavy rainfall, the road system is not
linked. It consists of a number of regional networks, where roads are
divided into three functional categories (arterials, collectors, and
locals) and classified into national and provincial roads for administrative
purposes. The arterials comprise about 5,000 km, and collectors and locals
about 13,000 km. In addition, there are about 1,000 km of urban roads.
32.       There is an obvious need to rehabilitate and improve provincial
roads linking isolated communities. However, provincial governments, which
experience shortages of technical and administrative staff, are unable to
undertake expanded road maintenance obligations. The proposed project would
not only provide for rehabilitation and improvement of high-priority,
provincial roads, but would also include technical assistance to provincial
government staffs to address the manpower problem in the provinces.
33.       Both passenger and freight traffic volumes are light.  The High-
lands Highway (600 km) is an exception, it carries a substantial traffic
of over 600 vehicles daily, of which more than 40% are trucks and buses.
The Highlands Highway serves the predominantly agricultural Central
Highlands Region, where about 40% of PNG's population live and its
improvement has been the most significant achievement in the transport
sector so far. The proposed improvement of the two remaining unsealed
sections of the Highlands Highway and the first section of the Enga Highway
would result in significant vehicle operating and road maintenance cost
savings and would further support the expansion of agricultural production
along the Highlands Highway and in Enga Province.
34.       For-hire road transport operations are limited to the area of the
Highlands Highway and are dominated by several large, expatriate-managed
companies which provide an efficient, reliable and well-supported service.
According to a recent study, truck freight rates on the Highlands Highway
are 40% above the "cost-plus-overhead" total and this is partly due to
overregulation of routes, tariffs, and licensing. The scarcity of local
entrepreneurs and managerial staff is a constraint to transport development.
The proposed project would provide for a study to review the road freight
industry in order to increase participation of PNG nationals. Outside the
Highlands Highway passengers and freight are mostly carried by privately-
owned minibuses, often the property of community groups. Rates are set by
negotiation between operators and clients, sometimes mediated by local
government councils or by provincial authorities.



- 11 -
Planning and Administration
35.       Responsibility for planning, construction and maintenance of the
road network is divided between the national Government and the 19 provincial
governments. The national Government's Department of Transport and Civil
Aviation (DTCA) is responsible for policy and planning tasks, and the
Department of Works and Supply (DWS) handles construction and maintenance of
national roads. Despite decentralization, the national Government continues
to provide most of the funds for construction and maintenance of national
and provincial roads.
36.       Most senior and middle-management posts in DTCA and DWS are filled
by expatriates engaged on short-term (2-3 years) contracts. Qualified PNG
nationals are in extremely short supply in most technical agencies. To fill
key positions DTCA and DWS recruit overseas, but the introduction in 1979 of
reduced salary scales and revised terms of contract has made recruitment
difficult and many positions remain vacant. DWS continues to pursue a
training program to accelerate staffing with qualified nationals but, so
far, the focus has been on fellowship programs and on training of lower-level
technical staff. It will take many years to train local staff for all
professional positions. The proposed project will provide technical
assistance to help this effort at DWS headquarters and in the provinces.
The project also provides for short-term technical assistance and consultant
services in order to strengthen the planning and monitoring activities of
DTCA and DWS.
Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
37.       DWS is responsible for the engineering of road works.  A large
proportion of its road design work is carried out by consultants, most of
whom are subsidiaries of foreign firms. Almost all major construction work
on national roads has been carried out by foreign contractors. A small
percentage of the work has been carried out by force account (day labor)
or by its variant, Project Managed Force Account (PMFA), which involves the
use of subcontractors, labor, and plant hired under a construction manage-
ment team of consultants engaged by DWS. The proposed project will provide
technical assistance to aid DWS in making further improvements to its in-house
engineering and supervision capabilities.
38.       Civil engineering contracts have not been of the scale or frequency
to support a comprehensive domestic construction industry. As the Government
wishes to promote the industry, the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project
(Credit 677-PNG) included a component for technical assistance to domestic
civil engineering road contractors. Under this component, a consultant
started field training for a small number of domestically owned and managed
firms which had a basic equipment fleet and the entrepreneurial spirit
necessary for their further development. However, the shortage of suitable
small road construction or maintenance contracts hampered the success of



- 12 -
these training efforts. Under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit
1030-PNG) the Government undertook to investigate further ways of promoting
the domestic construction industry. Although the results have been dis-
appointing, the proposed project contains provisions for reviving previous
attempts to develop the industry. During the project period, DWS plans to
supply work to small contractors by carefully apportioning small roadworks
to be financed under the project.
39.       Maintenance of national roads and bridges is carried out by DWS to
a generally satisfactory technical standard but the level of maintenance
services provided is often inadequate. Adverse topographic and climatic
conditions, increased traffic volumes, and inefficiencies in DWS operations
all contribute to high maintenance costs.. In the past, adequate funds have
been provided by the national Government for maintenance of national roads
but some funds have been diverted to road improvement works. DWS intends to
establish a central Maintenance Branch at headquarters to plan, direct and
monitor maintenance and its cost. Consultants retained under the Third
Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit 1030-PNG) to assist in developing a
maintenance program were appointed recently. Efforts to improve maintenance
will continue under this project.
40.       Maintenance of provincial and local roads is inadequate.  While
maintenance is the responsibility of provincial governments, in most cases
DWS carries out the work on their behalf.  The extent of maintenance to be
carried out and the allocation of the necessary funds depends entirely on
the provincial governments, which sometimes prefer to construct new roads.
The proposed project would assist the provincial governments to develop a
rational strategy for maintenance on provincial and local roads.
Transport Financing
41.       Financing for the construction, improvement and maintenance of
roads is provided from the national Government-s annual budget. Provincial
governments receive funds for provincial and local roads either through
untied grants or through tied National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP)
grants. The Government's allocation for roads and bridges was about US$41.4
million in 1982. Of this, US$24.6 million was for construction and US$16.8
million for maintenance. No figures are available for provincial government
expenditures on roads. The Asian Development Bank is planning to finance the
improvement of about 40 km of national roads together with consulting
services and technical assistance.
Bank Group Lending for the Sector
42.       The Bank Group has assisted the transport sector through three
highway and two port projects. Two of the highway projects and both port
projects have been satisfactorily completed.  The First Highway Project



- 13 -
(Cr. 204/Loan 693-PNG) in 1970 provided US$9.0 million for improvement of
150 km of the Highlands Highway between Kundiawa and Mendi. Because of
high bids, the project showed a cost overrun of 90% which the Bank Group
declined to finance. The Performance Audit Report of June 16,1977 concluded
that the Bank was unnecessarily harsh in refusing supplementary finance, and
that international competitive bidding (ICB) conditions in PNG at the time
may have contributed to cost escalation. The Second Highlands Road
Improvement Project (Cr. 677-PNG) in 1977 provided US$19.0 million for
construction and improvement of 68 km of the Highlands Highway as well as
for consultancy services and training. Bids for civil works submitted prior
to negotiating the credit exceeded the cost estimates by 75% and rebidding
failed to obtain lower prices. The project was scaled down in 1976 from
300 km to the most urgently needed sections (totalling 68 km) and one-third
of the work was set aside to be carried out by DWS through PMFA. The
project was completed in February 1982, one year behind schedule, with a
total cost some 15% above the appraisal estimate.
43.       The First Port Project (Cr. 326-PNG) of 1972 provided US$9.2 million
for improvements at four main ports, and was completed in 1977. The Second
Port Project (Ln. 1551-PNG) of 1978 provided US$3.5 million for a new
container berth at Port Moresby, for improvement of a minor port, procurement
of launches, and consulting services. The Kuwait Fund co-financed US$3.5
million, and the project was completed in May 1980.
44.       The Third Highway Project (Ln. 1856/Cr. 1030-PNG) of 1980 has
provided US$30 million for construction and improvement of 138 km of the
Highlands Highway, procurement of traffic counting equipment, consulting
services, technical assistance for road maintenance, and training. After a
slow start, the rate of progress in implementing this project has improved
and civil works are now about 50% complete. Recent civil unrest and a
substantial increase in the required earthworks due to unstable slopes are
expected to cause further delays. Project completion is expected during
19R4, some twelve months behind the appraisal schedule.
Transport Sector Issues
45.       The Bank Transport Sector Review of 1979 identified a series of
issues: sector planning, efficiency of transport operations, participation
of PNG nationals in transport-related activities, and balance between public
expenditures for, and public revenues from transport operations.
46.       These issues were addressed in the Third Highway Project, however,
difficulties in implementing political objectives such as localization and
decentralization, scarcity of experienced national staff, and the technical
intricacy of issues such as pricing policy and deregulation suggest that
much more time than originally envisaged will be needed to appreciably
improve transport sector management and operations. During negotiations
for the proposed project, the Government agreed to adhere to a timetable for



- 14 -
addressing the policy and manpower issues, and to prepare a Transport
Sector Development Strategy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project was identified in 1981 and prepared by the
Government with the assistance of consultants financed under the Third High-
way Project (Ln. 1856/Credit 1030 - PNG). The project was appraised in May
1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from January 31 to February 8,
1983 with a Government team led by Mr. Michael Essex, First Assistant
Secretary, Department of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4184-PNG,
dated March 8, 1983) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in A_nnex III.
48.       The project's mairn objectives are to improve both rural mobility
through rehabilitation and improvement of roads and bridges, and highway
maintenance through the establishment of an efficient management system, and
to assist in developing the road transport and construction industries. The
project also aims to assist in establishing a strategy for transport sector
development leading to policy action plans and associated investment
programs.
Project Description
49.       The proposed project would include:
(a) Rehabilitation and Improvement of Provincial Roads
About 15 high-priority, provincial road sections (totalling
about 277 km) selected from the Rural Transport Works Program would be
rehabilitated or improved. These provincial roads are rough and narrow
gravel or earth roads, most of them impassable in the rainy season. Lack of
maintenance and inadequate original design, have resulted in their rapid
deterioration though traffic levels are light. The roads will be improved
to an all-weather standard and provided with gravel surfacing; slopes will
be stabilized, drainage improved, and bridges strengthened or replaced as
needed.
(b) Rehabilitation or Replacement of Bridges on National Roads
About 32 deteriorated, temporary or unsafe bridges on national roads
would be rehabilitated or replaced. These bridges prevent the flow of traffic
on otherwise adequate roads and they often generate high maintenance costs.
The bridges would be improved to an adequate design standard.



- 15 -
(c) Improvements to Sections of the Highlands and Enga Highways
Three sections totalling 54 km would be improved. Two of these
sections, the Kudjip-Minj (13 km) and Watabung-Chuave (16 km) are the
remaining unimproved sections of the Highlands Highway, and they now contri-
bute to high vehicle operating and road maintenance costs. Improvement of
these two sections will provide a paved, all-weather road from the port of
Lae to Mount Hagen in the Central Highlands (Map IBRD 16665R1). The third
road section, Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff, covers the first 25 km of the Enga
Highway, which is the continuation of the Highlands Highway to reach Wabag.
The entire length (93 km) is proposed by the Government for improvement over
the coming decade.  All three road sections have rough and narrow gravel
surfaces which have deteriorated due to poor original design, inadequate
maintenance and substantial traffic, exacerbated by difficult terrain and
heavy rainfall. These sections will be improved, mainly on existing
alignments, to double bituminous paved standard, drainage improved, slopes
stabilized and bridges strengthened or replaced where necessary.
(d) Consulting Services
Consultants would be engaged for feasibility studies, preliminary
and detailed engineering and construction supervision for project roads and
bridges, construction management and monitoring services for works using PMFA
(para. 37), and for undertaking feasibility studies and detailed engineering
to prepare future projects, including several boat service projects identified
by the Provincial Rural Transport Study, which was financed under the Third
Highway Project. In addition, consultant services would be provided to carry
out transport policy review studies which would cover topics such as:
establishment of a data information system (to facilitate transport planning,
policy formulation, price controls and tariff-setting and to determine needed
policy and regulatory measures); review of the road freight industry (to
develop measures for the increased participation of PNG nationals); review of
airport user charges; and review of the bus transport systems in Port Moresby
and Lae.
(e) Technical Assistance and Training
Consultants would be engaged to provide technical assistance:
q             (i) to DTCA to assist in provincial planning and training programs, and in
upgrading and localization of DTCA-s capabilities at both the national and
provincial levels; and (ii) to DWS to assist in improving its management
capabilities and maintenance operations; in instituting a maintenance training
program at the national and provincial levels; and in developing the domestic
construction industry. Further training would be provided to PNG nationals in
construction management and supervision through their secondment to consultant
teams, particularly where PMFA operations will be used.



- 16 -
Hydropower Survey
50.       In order to assist the Government in conducting a review of
potential hydropower resources as soon as possible, a total of US$1.0 million
was added to the proposed loan. The urgency of this survey is that the
location and capacity of these sites may be a determining factor in the
location of future mining and processing industries.
Cost and Financing
51.       The total financing required for the project, including the hydro-
power survey, contingency allowances, right-of-way acquisition and the
front-end fee on the Bank loan, is estimated at US$55.5 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$37.4 million, representing 67% of
total project cost. The proposed loan of US$31.0 million, would finance 56%
of total project cost, or 83% of the foreign exchange cost, including the
capitalized front-end fee of US$230,769, and about US$580,000 equivalent of
local costs incurred in connection with consulting services and technical
assistance. The Kuwait Fund has indicated its interest in providing about
US$7.0 million to finance on a parallel basis the foreign costs of the
provincial roads component, together with the relevant consulting services for
design engineering and construction supervision. The balance of the local
costs, about US$17.5 million equivalent, would be financed by the Government.
Cost estimates are based on February 1983 prices and exclude taxes and duties,
from which the project will be exempt. Total cost includes: (a) physical
contingencies of 10% to 25% of base cost on all civil works items depending on
the status of engineering in each case; and (b) price contingencies amounting
to about 21% of base costs (estimated for both foreign and local costs at 8.0%
for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985, and 6.0% for 1986 and later years).
Overall, physical and price contingencies combined represent about 26% of the
total project cost. The project cost includes US$900,000 equivalent of
retroactive financing for project preparation work undertaken after July 30,
1982 by DTCA and DWS through consultants (Beca, Carter and Hollings - PNG,
Cardno and Davies - PNG and Ove Arup and Partners - UK).
52.       The road rehabilitation and improvement costs, including contin-
gencies and rights-of-way, vary from about US$40,000 per km for provincial
roads to approximately US$475,000 per km for sections of the Highlands and
Enga Highways. These costs are reasonable. However, for the two sections
on the Highlands Highway (representing about 25% of the total project cost),
the cost estimates are tentative because detailed engineering is still to be
done. A total of 788 man-months of consulting and technical assistance
services would be provided at a total cost of US$8.6 million equivalent
(contingencies not included). An additional 75 man-months of consultants
services for construction management of PMFA works, estimated at US$800,000,
is included in the construction cost for the works involved. The cost of
consulting services for detailed engineering and construction supervision for
project roads and bridges is estimated at about 12% of the construction cost.
Average man-month costs for consulting services and technical assistance,
including travel and allowances, are estimated at US$9,500 equivalent. In



- 17 -
addition, local facilities, equipment, administrative costs, vehicles and
materials are estimated to cost about US$1,500 equivalent per man-month. For
the hydropower survey 84 manmonths of consultants services are required, at
an average cost of about $10,000 per man-month.
Implementation Arrangements
53.       In accordance with the Government's decentralization policy, the
project extends the assistance of previous transport projects from the
national to the provincial government level by financing rehabilitation and
improvement of provincial roads. Because of lack of management capabilities
and technical expertise in the provinces, the provincial road component
would be implemented by DWS. DWS would thus be the executing agency for all
civil works to be carried out under the project, for consulting services for
construction management, detailed engineering and construction supervision,
and for technical assistance for maintenance, highway management and train-
ing. DTCA will be responsible for the consulting services for transport
policy review studies, including the boat services feasibility studies, and
for the technical assistance for transport planning and programming at
national and provincial levels. As DWS and DTCA have been responsible for two
previous Bank projects and technical assistance would be provided, no
administrative difficulties are anticipated.
54.       As the project consists of many small components scattered
over the country, preparation has been difficult, time consuming and costly.
The feasibility studies and economic analysis for the project roads and
bridges were carried out under DTCA supervision, through its Project and
Planning Divisions. DWS supervised the execution of the preliminary and
detailed engineering for the roads and bridges; some of this work is
ongoing. Consultants would be engaged under the project to provide
construction management, monitoring and supervision, to carry out studies
and detailed engineering, and to provide technical assistance.
55.       The project will be implemented over a five-year period.  Civil
works will begin during 1983 and should be completed by mid-1988. Upon
completion, DWS will be responsible for maintenance of all project roads and
bridges, including the provincial roads which will be maintained with the use
of DWS's financial resources. In the long term, when provincial capabilities
reach a satisfactory level, the responsibility for maintaining these roads
will be transferred to provincial governments.  During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government will: (a) by October 31 of each
year during project implementation furnish to the Bank for its approval a
program of civil works to be carried out during the next calendar year
(Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement); and (b) by July 1, 1985 prepare and
furnish to the Bank for review a Transport Sector Development Strategy and,
after taking into account the Bank's comments, submit it to the National
Executive Council for consideration (Sections 3.08(a) and (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
56.       In addition, the Government agreed to an action program in the
form of a Side Letter, which supplements Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement and includes agreement that: (i) an agreed timetable for



- 18 -
addressing transport sector issues, namely transport planning, modal
deregulation, user charges, and development of domestic contractors would be
adhered to; (ii) DWS would submit to the Bank for comments by March 31,
1984, and subsequently implement, an action program for improvement of
maintenance operations satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) DWS would establish a
Maintenance Branch and would appoint national staff for training, not later
than December 31, 1983; (iv) DWS would submit to the Bank for comments by
September 30, 1983 an action program for implementation of a road mainte-
nance training program and subsequently implement a training program for its
maintenance staff; (v) Government would continue to review transport user
charges with a view towards increasing them appropriately to recapture a
larger share of the costs, maintenance and administration of transport infra-
structure; and (vi) Government would continue to evaluate modal regulations
with a view to applying regulations which will promote an economic and
efficient transport system.
Procurement
57.       Civil works totalling about US$15.0 million equivalent (including
contingencies) for the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff and Kudjip-Minj sections on the
Highlands and Enga Highways will be procured through ICB following standard
Bank guidelines. During project appraisal the possibility of constructing
the Togoba-Tanbul Turnoff using a modified version of force account (PMFA)
administered by a consultant management team was evaluated and rejected in
favor of ICB for the following reasons: (a) even allowing for local
security problems, contractor prices and schedules would probably not exceed
PMFA estimates; (b) there would appear to be sufficient interest among
international contractors to assure responsive bidding under ICB; and,
(c) the Government could promote the domestic construction industry and
extend its training efforts by using PMFA for other more suitable project
works. In order to measure the cost effectiveness of carrying out road
works by PMFA as contrasted with using ICB, consultants will be retained to
establish an appropriate monitoring system. Civil works totalling US$17.0
million equivalent (including contingencies) for paving and bridges on the
Watabung-Chuave section of the Highlands Highway, for selected provincial
roads and for parts of the bridge program will be procured under contracts
(value of each package not exceeding US$1.0 million) awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which are satisfactory.
58.       The balance of the improvement works for the Watabung-Chuave
section and the rest of the provincial roads and bridge program works,
totalling about US$9.7 million equivalent (including contingencies), will be
carried out by DWS, partly by force account and partly through PMFA, in
packages not exceeding US$750,000. For works to be undertaken in the first
two years, the form of procurement is outlined in Schedule 4 of the draft
Loan Agreement. The specific form of procurement for remaining works will
be agreed with the Bank. LCB contracts and PMFA works will be based on unit
prices applied to bills of quantities with monthly invoices certified by a
supervising consulting engineer. Opportunities will be provided to domestic
contractors, primarily through subcontracting portions of larger contracts
and on PMFA and force account works.



- 19 -
59.       All consulting services and technical assistance will be procured
in accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines. Outline terms of reference
for consulting services have been agreed upon between Government and the
Bank. Contractors would be pre-qualified to bid for works to be tendered
through ICB. Where LCB is to be used, foreign contractors operating in the
country would also be allowed to submit bids. All bidding packages for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 or more will be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation.
60.-      Assurances were obtained that the Government will take the steps
necessary to acquire land, including rights-of-way, prior to awarding
contracts, and would furnish evidence of such acquisition to the Bank
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). During negotiations the
Government confirmed that necessary arrangements for acquiring rights-of way
are well underway and that all necessary rights-of-way for roads and bridges
to be undertaken during the first year of the project period have been
obtained.
Disbursements
61.       Disbursements of the loan proceeds would be made against normal
documentation over a six-year period /1 on the following basis: (a) 65% of
total expenditures for civil works; and (b) 100% of total actual
expenditures for consulting services, technical assistance and training.
All expenditures would be fully documented except those for civil works
carried out by DWS through force account, which would be reimbursed on the
basis of statements of expenditure certified by DWS in accordance with
previously agreed total estimated costs for each road or bridge. Supporting
documentation would be retained by DWS and made available for review by
supervision missions. Payments will be subject to internal audit by DWS and
to audit by the Auditor-General's office (Section 4.02 (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Disbursements, up to an aggregate total of US$900,000, may be
made for project preparation costs incurred after July 30, 1982 and prior to
loan signature. Assurances were received that disbursements for the two
Highlands Highway sections would not be made until their detailed
engineering is completed to the satisfaction of the Bank (Schedule 1, para.
3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The closing date for the proposed loan
would be June 30, 1989.
/1 This disbursement schedule, with some minor modifications, follows the
regional profile in order to provide for unexpected delays in
implementation.



- 20 -
Project Benefits, Justification, and Risks
62.       Rehabilitation and improvement of the provincial roads included in
the project would provide increased rural mobility. Improved access would
benefit the rural population by promoting economic activity, reducing
transport cost and providing better access to government health and education
services. Rehabilitation and replacement of deteriorated bridges on national
roads would provide safe, economical and efficient means of transport among
districts, regions and provinces. Improvement of the two Highlands Highway
sections would complete a paved road from the port of Lae to Mount Hagen,
providing lower cost, safer and speedier access between the coastal area and
the Central Highlands. Improvement of the first section of the Enga Highway
would extend this improved, lower cost access towards Wabag, assisting the
process of economic development in Enga Province. On all these roads, the
currently high maintenance costs would be reduced and road safety improved.
63.       The technical assistance component of the project would improve
maintenance operations, help rationalize transport planning and upgrade
capabilities to administer and operate transport infrastructure. The
training component would reduce dependence on expatriates and enhance the
capability of PNG national staff. The various studies and the resulting
policy measures would help place the management of the country's transport
assets on a sounder financial and technical basis, encourage development of
the domestic construction industry and promote increased participation by PNG
nationals in the road transport industry.
64.       Based on vehicle operating cost savings and on savings due to
reduced maintenance costs, the estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for
the project items whose economic justification has been established (four
provincial roads, eight bridges, the Kudjip-Minj section of the Highlands
Highway and the Togoba-Tanbul section of the Enga Highway section) is 33.2%.
Sensitivity analysis for these initial phase project components (representing
about 49% of the total project cost) shows, in the worst case of a 10%
increase in costs and a 10% decrease in benefits, an ERR of 28.3%. Under
agreed criteria, the project items under preparation ought to show a minimum
ERR of 10%; the project as a whole ought thus to show an ERR of 20% or better.
65.       The risk of major cost increases is not substantial.  Potential
difficulties over right-of-way acquisition have been dealt with by extending
construction schedules to allow for protracted negotiations; and Government
has confirmed that no right-of-way problems exist for the civil works to be
started in the first year of the project period (para. 60). The possibility
that provincial roads may not be properly maintained after completion has been
reduced by arranging for DWS to undertake maintenance of all project



- 21 -
components. The risk that policy and institutional objectives would not be
met because of delays in recruiting expatriate staff, or because Government
would not assign enough national officers to work with the foreign experts,
has been reduced by agreeing with Government on a detailed action program
for implementing the technical assistance components for transport planning,
highway maintenance improvement, and staff training (para. 56).
Environmental Aspects
66.       The project is not expected to cause any environmental or
ecological problems. No major changes in the alignment of project roads
will be made. Wider and better constructed shoulders will contribute to
road safety. Suitable design of drainage and slope stabilization will ensure
that the works will not cause or aggravate flooding, erosion or land slides.
Paving the road sections on the Highlands and Enga Highways will eliminate the
present danger caused by dusty, slippery and muddy surfaces.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Independent State of Papua
New Guinea and the Bank and the Report provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
68.       A special condition of disbursement for the two Highland Highway
sections is that the detailed engineering be completed to the satisfaction of
the Bank (para. 61). Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
(
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1983



- 22 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (TROUSANI SQ. KH.)                                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             461.7                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        4.7                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                    190.0        390.0      820.0                   890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(kILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         51.0        146.0     299.0                    701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAIION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1932.0         2394.0    3007.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT CF TOTAL)  2.7             9.8       17.9                    32.4                     65.7
PPOULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            4.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              9.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RIM.                          4.2          5.2        6.4                   255.4                     35.2
PER SQ. P;1.. AGRICULTURAL LAND    508.4        546.6      625.3                  1748.0                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.5          42.0      42.0                     39.9                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                           56.6          55.0      54.8                     56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.9          3.0       3.3                      3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.8          2.1        2.3/c                   2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                15.3         15.1        8.3                     3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        44.0         41.5       36.8                    35.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATS. RATE (PER THOUSAND)       23.2         18.1       15.1                     9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          2.9        2.6                     2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..       3.0/d                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            100.0       100.0      105.0                   115.6                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     79.3         83.6       86.7/e                 106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            41.9         46.4        47.0/e                  54.4                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          16.7         19.9       19.97e                  13.9                     34.0
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        26.2         19.3       13.6                     6.7                      5.6
HEALTH
LTFF FXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEABS)    40.6            46.4       50.6                    59.8                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TrHOUSAND)                            165.0        133.0      104.5                    63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       20.0/f                  32.0                     65.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..       30.071                  51.9                     78.9
RURAL                                  I- *-                 19.0/f                  20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-         14.0       18.0/f                  37.7                     59.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                    65.7                     75.3
RURAL                                  ..          5.0        5.0/f                  24.0                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           14390.0/g   11509.6   14040.0/e                  8540.4                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2450.07T    2347.1    1585.57ie                  4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               170.0/g      150.5/g   214.9/e                 1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                                  ..         52.1/i    96.77T                  651.6                    679.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..      272.7/e                2597.6                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..                    27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGU SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 3.1           ..
'RBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NLMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                80.0           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



- 23 -                                               N8eTkf 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                REFERENCE GROUPS (VEIGHTED AVER/AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 32.0         52.0      64.0                   96.2                     104.3
MALE                  59.0        64.0       73.0                   99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                 7.0        39.0       55.0                   92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0          8.0      12.0                   37.6                     41.3
MALE                   2.0        11.0       17.0                   41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                 0.5         4.0        8.0                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  16.0          19.4      22.3/h                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.0         29.7      30.5                   35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                          18.0         23.0      22.9/h                 25.0                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        29.4         32.1      32.0/f                  73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          7.3       6.4/h                  9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           *-           *-      54.4                  116.5                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..                  37.6                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       6.5                   53.7                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                   2.8                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1058.4       1244.9    1492.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.4         41.3      40.6                   33.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0         86.0      82.1                   52.2                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.3          5.8       7.7                   17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.8         52.0      49.6                    38.5                     33.6
MALE                                 61.2         58.5       56.4                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                               47.7         44.9      42.2                   26.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       0.9                     1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     400.0                  194.7
RURAL                                ..           ..     275.0                  155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 178.2                    518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      10.0                   24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      75.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populationweighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Indigenous population growth rate is 2.8x; /d 1974; /e 1977; /f 1975; /g 1964; /h 1976.
May, 1982



- 24 -                                                                             ANNEX I
D-"T ON F SIALOd   MItttAWO                                                                 Page    3   of   5
Ntteies   Aliorogrlh the daca-odre-ote   9ouhe  g-11ri   jodged the    eta h,htiai-i- aod rtalieb., Iosrao                        - too  htteotha,rrht         -roeb oa toter-
_hlsa   aeo  to desretir, order  of  egoroa. idt-atorads,  _od Tha..reert cc trer-i  majo  dfrrtr_ s teo--   oot
sot-otoa f fiecltoe) Ia   he or.f...o.r gro.p datth  a a  age  are  -ottt wighted  -cish-ic as  hd   for  -ah i,,dot oto   hort -                           hr
aoooo   h   oce.stdeL a  dt   o   httdttor L-Stor  the oreae  frtore   ceogha   okaoadooetd Iohe,~*thtIooo
- hi--at attierawc.grtha-oorreo  aidreferecte  aLIora
05th  (ehoacaodaoea.)                                                            Popoterter~~~~~~~~~~~~97  d,a.h,ah  phee  idaca    d bto heti eo  br ort-  PF h.t-ttoo  (ros
ec t-ecalsorf -r           -Vrreo irmoe -drgiaeooaaadtotlaedee--;td          -a.oto   so                        a) dioieh         hi    eaecocae-othoaoteathcdoi
toe  -oop, Pa.cec-., market a-d totohem  gardeo  or to toe li      tom   1979 dara-               tattlir taooi teer-   topoto    are  - achthmata per--eoLt  o -fod
trcfas   t  p-IEet    sahts heeoe,rooa'daeg prorripatJorat.to
tsr PRg OAFItt  (fit$) - taroc  tarra  soata -i      at       - rcr...earte  potoes.  a:               dt-l oare ace  _o  Lo'oe     ac            ptt   h-e.trI -  trAsde he tot
rotated 7o.a.e.creeaet oehooata..rfdfwatkdtt1t  (tol8-d0 hosts); 1Oil,                         aodcedatatrceeetaro-e                1I peeoottrffeah ph tta    o t
rIs,. aod t9d0 d-ca.                                                                                 eoataaeae trc wdtt.et)  ohot, otter to-patter   ac-rt-
grteeaotafttfetoPehoifto    troet- aoaoapeoooo       rcaoateoetP  (root1                                -- ortap aeartetareaafloettar                 litese.tr-ttF c,t
adttte,teteo""e.     1- r   gsaedtgaaaedtrf     -1-1oterad    oteodt -e                      acdeaeatroth-piatI,trr-   oeatc-t  asratats dr tdiedaratsd  -e-eiey
trti Ita  kttogr-so  ro.at  qooe-o   a                1960 ;  ri, tOld, eat 1979               z-ethers   tp,ootiteed   e eta dt. totoded ootp toertoet
dat-                                                                                              Adoisetoos go  ota  ted - fI---           aha  ofb.   sC tatoos--  to   Lt daohda-
f.o. hoapitaft daoader to the  -tte  of toSs.
PtPtL.ATION 0th fTAI STttifTlCS
Tetta raetstafaoo. Ott-Year lrhoosaads)    t~~AI of Jolt,   tdt 16, 1970, sed  d80  HOtUtING
difflrce   defirii-tesr  o-haror-as- matlft-   r aahleyo  data                                    ord -heir  etmat   Ahade                tdre   ap-ao   o   etrac
actt9otoe;  r      0,tO, -tt  tOri dat-                                                  ehe hras-hotIdoraaae tproe
to-at poPtt-aase-yh0 9O  dd se  oar  OiOeraooto  std feettta, eae                              detos,rse  aep                     fte -toettddtrroaet   5erte 
Peefj-aeinaaeet   omeati-ae    --pcieaItehteateostsa as-c-ato ird 0t--
t-tdtaftepeao tsotttttstgah  -ot-toa potgat toooi.   -e-                                        - d   teioaeatttotere~odetttt)t_t,"a.sdo
teoe,at Id f-oatetafeetpet-toyi,aht 7atfa                Of-tocrs    Thr pa-                                             "'hteod   tettosaoeeoehttaitolitit ra--c  as
asdfrt-ititooreedaAitrpeojrtoe-ri petiAdj.aecdtootteot ioa
toeriatara Iror..atar,.Itorlb"                                1 tattero osttoteei-oo"..,tOosto-  Prieayooo-at, Ihwa--l     tetd feelteh-do ortaeo f...s
mtd hs oootah  -- iho  t0,I   athtoedbaolr  aftr   foit-c   rate  de,Ittocho                      poaaaeo     hoe-se   aethaea pt--tstl  te-ttea..ttdo..at                     . t
_ofatecorelarstse0   ore Th               ecii-bd  byaf-   fteta lYp ttataa  saceeLo taaoteteaateh  ottoesa   edra1,ad oeto                                  ilcw0eoerttf1e    ohI
-ctpadt . asdhesedetoofottprtteta-                                                     a detriotte-oeot,aateaedteotI -tehocooeed-  aadt...;seroodI t
sue attt trer-rid.                                                                                -saatt  of  too. to fe1ar  of sse;rorrc1aosdba-rroa aaee  g9-b-1t
Meiht   tdotarropttoafo- paes,-e  krlo-tter(W0 ter -sr   (of                            Voa  ooatoteolerer  feoosef                          fo   IoatoIllote,
otstaleea; t9t0, 19r0taodt1979taca                                                              i-tid~ ticohotrati. dacroit            , _o or toaiooa-Lroooeidapood-
pcosohaarroootoooottao     ---ouridaaho   facgeroao             -tAd                     ctetraratdoewtcfta-r dootsfifio
toip; trio. tr7O had t97r dtaea                                                             PFaott-esheroacio  o a                     --esseoda-r - foos1  -hd-ofa er iita
PooJs-~oo..t tirotoee torreot  -hildee-, to-fa  --er), oe-tttg- ge (t-                    prtary aed ter-sary to..ctadooidot ip -reo-r  at It-h-bo     ar~ tO
taerlad te          Ilelh Ye...a-det(a  rereatt              ad pytro-pt-                   ....es--oateet-tet.
Poeotoaomtrass  eae  (persts)- toat -  tosa  getet ra,s- a  to-a  ead-                -aae        -eodi  0  totat edtt1eortatoagd 15  -et  bad otto.
-0popo-atto  foe tASaht. ldit-7t, ard tht-ht.
Po0stafioe tretath Rate (br-rot) -  ohao-aooasl ocoart rates at-ar hat. rpo-~      f5ittTtlt
aeosfor -d950-60. t96O-70, ard trt9o7Pa0ege  tart(oa  thuatst  tepta -ot  - la..rge are                                                                        ..i     ..
tooe  ieaiae   rerohtatd)-  oot    a- tooths per th-osad of ta-ea                        ao   ea  in lesta   f0etest;  o  oe   ag latt  h  re    t
papata toe;--    - h-- -- rst i-balt -Itatd  trrdt did-                                               radatseatrt-    Atleelroaodo    ypoO                    Oo  ter"ode  to
trots tcidteeao    gar-Oeras-rrhd           oada1tee   atmteel   wooo                                -tesereeoersrras,teeI                 to    aae1,-e-statiofdL
tee Rso-eobi oap "'aoo-e  peeto   h   roretareetseseat   e-teeheat eI.r-     d-- or-erata year wlay oaf o oi-cti. Otiadia
thb  dOtt   atptoeoaoac  ioad-5i   dt  tOYi, sod tOt,                                               as  athoe   attt%a   tI.oe.ttyOt-             ..
oawholaootg-drercll'          -Oooset(fhos.a.d.(-  d.at..soatetc                             _ieeiet (t-eoIosodportoto-mee__ea   orrgdds
of hltiochl,,,,AL~,                 ~           ~L-raeofcaeooe    eoe   taia_fatoaaoort rtI        i-oetatoit   Pttoatdttfe.ooeraittepieeoo
Pahad hhTttiet it  dety  if aesleara  at  atti  -to
[ode  of-ied  -cedoooo  per hapt ha. ftk-ttO       ow    fpoateama                                ita   tt    iedail e oc   aro  per aeae-iastdfmmetoahe   ofida
is 00 tateedar peat haaia-  htmaadtebtsioaei-pdi-acd  goads                                                    r__disrtaroa-e aid oahtte-tia-ad
ice. ar  terd t-d-d) t"gpetate  dOOdfOtia- - t wart oso-ro  ts hated at                       tA-OO-F-dt
oaiea   tecge p-ad--r  pL_t _eigtt; ldt-ti, 1017(. a-d t(R5 dafa.                         floea1 Later F...e (oho--eam) -ttEma-ra-(to  etara p-osha, - otttofo
Peetacfsasopearofoato-Kes(etotettofraoaieeae-ttsla)-roeeacrtdto                      sowe1:d I       IoeadattepIapyd baoteettodfthteeoo,atati,t
crero  etrcaeco      te  food -sa50ttes    .bl toattit ..et .ote  retaih                          LIeee  etra aitto   h  ots    ohtiLottOtatOohtt                        c
re- dap-  tA-lotie  sspiietowrotdo-teit prood-riae - tre-s  et                                    to196aa      0e t . i970 ecd t9ti data.
roparts. at  hod-tics  a atook    me  soon aes  ettoaw  aitat toed, sadsd.     O~eaet  (eooo   - Female is1io   fooe at  ceetas   t               Its  tto  ftore
vtlyshtd  tett,rl tti  _rl  ard ttl d_f,-                                                           arts , ~ In.   idlO-aodifS  daIa
recoepatasapot-iof 0ooort,t (         -oar  d Ier  dat.  0 -Pott-riet  of.7c - e1aia            Paiitdt         eat      --otot -A    a      ae a  ed  fet  .al- Pa        -cbpst;
oetaaphptyJ_ffo 19d6eod 1y 7 iespt 9           fatdeteaaho  7e-daraooio6 rate   sootpaeasael..taaos...tt.fer
pois Ipcttt  o  sio   1  grae atoi  hePI        aoied  pooteo -   Tes  aia -                      refit-l fiotat a-te  sf-00     -tor    tth  prptotea  od  fl e  iat, tf od hA
aoo   tedtaoc;  tttt   170at  aOldart-.  t20eaaaa ......
rIar   et---      issdpossh  traa6otodarttoi-h_                   tr(t af  fiYf Idaa         ttsstdh iftootgspaptr                                      ii   I"
hhtd(-            f-oteahwh 10 Iraotoheoaded(eaoiaade-ft- etehs-I-dia                            Part-ateof peita-   aaotee_  (hot                     -tsatttdl- tetoihy-dteA
ociat Oafs dfatsft   tethe;ta,ll aod iri  data.                                                   ef-h-ost-fd65
.-ta-tooo16165a97                                                                               Po7 ~.tio  taoit  te1oi.b    -
age p to shaaatd thee hirsa; -ti It..tO I so d,ihdat -th.ad1                        fhott pooeip  to-  teecthO th-athiosd icoe  -eo  whtirhd a, ltem-
her ofpea I   catat-  acat aid,-a at) with.9  ocsethicteeo                   gt                 af-tscdahte.                        art          0         .d- -4
eate  sapo   tttdi-tItaaea         bl.;190 coe9d7rfreae badaoeeid19  atti0etaedaaitaaaettiepttt htoe...                                     (       pe ahoa o1drsdset
eses-         hsta    re    raeidhchPe,sees.iaatiepett                                                TrARGETatoGeocpiaamaoti    meetd   fatrg
rec-wcmah.ie  tetwat           a  ihsi ihe -heaaathet a hesc ef.dtc  ssht -                       amdicartd A l- Pe.eis, rrtca                                                   IIItadeaa)wear    sats
If two pcoe it apsd aL airthoap      1960sca 97 parsde ihe  dwpib     eeheat                      poetlt .    ..  yL            -        ata    h       -        b-h~        ii
gahcatp_       tetet P,     arham.-aod eaat                                    - -ecoed ip es-are-is dispe-satawt-
pecereagecat ehtorepeetiow  pbpa-hcat-,  iptitefe h Steecitcap itriL_ade.                                                                                            .,-pt
th -etitec  cad t  icpscRIesalweef c ca-cepimet,lcyiia eccc
asd w-cie-eaee   Iywter-dae   cpcec   or, ihed awe a      r.ate   hcoia sm  sief-ihd--h     -hih                                     a   .    ihiL
r.ises h qa tif.  tehawdla   ec a-t tieetip  tweet                                                                                getomrhic.cc,sdh.aetisc-epceac
focatlyte    --c (tcss   ce_           eaattsdmde   ytwe  a   reiiasHPt
mAte. ma--cegaaseomc,esstt   awe   oastt  w sa
wteet-cg acathicciyec.                                          d.p .. 



-25 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981 /b                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
1960-       1970-        1975-
US$                    1969         1974         1980
Million        %        ------(Constant prices) --------
GNP at Market Prices      2,486.7       100.0        6.5/c        5.2/c        1.0/c
Gross Domestic
Investment                707.3       28.4        19.2          8.1         6.8
Gross National Saving        446.9       18.0         ..           ..
Current Account Balance    542.9       -21.8
Exports of Goods, NFS        875.0      35.2         9.9         25.3         -0.3
Imports of Goods, NFS    1,237.0        49.7        16.5         -2.9          3.6
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added /d          Employment           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million      %        '000     %         US$    % of National
Ave rage
Agriculture           659.4        32.1       996    87.6        774         39.9
Industry              699.0        34.1        27     2.4    25,141      1,295.3
Services              696.3        33.9       114    10.0      6,642        342.2
Total/Average       2,054.7       100.0    1,137   100.0       1,941        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                   % of GDP
1981                1981          1976-1978
Current Domestic Receipts                374.0                18.2            19.7
Current Expenditures                     589.1                28.7            32.2
Current Deficit                          195.1                 9.5            12.4
Capital Expenditures                      55.9                 2.7             4.5
External Assistance (net)                 184.0                9.0            13.5
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1 - June 30
to January 1 - December 31. All data have been adjusted to a calendar year
basis.
/b  National accounts and balance of payments figures differ, since the first is
on a flow and the second on a payments basis.
/c  Growth rates are calculated in line at end-points.
/d  At factor cost.  These figures are for 1981.
/e  Preliminary.
not applicable
November 1982



-. 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPIJA NEW GUINEA
March    March
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1978      1979      1980      1981       1981      1982
(Million v outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                           449.0    571.7    553.1       554.7      545.7    553.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net                13.5      35.0      15.0      42.3       55.8      70.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net              193.8    227.5    301.9    342.6        308.0    350.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                31.4      35.3      31.9      33.5
Consumer Price Index (1977 = 100)              105.8    111.9    125.4    138.7         134.3    140.6
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                           5.8       5.8      12.1      10.6       11.0        4.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 41.8      17.4      32.7      13.5       24.9      13.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-1981)
1979    1980    1981 /a                                  US$
(US$ Million)                                         Million    z
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,058.6 1,038.9    875.0  Coffee                            168.2    18.8
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,028.5 1,288.4  1,237.0  Cocoa                              80.2      9.0
Resource Gap (Deficit = -)    30.1  -249.5   -362.0  Copra & Copra Products                68.3      7.7
Timber & Timber Products        52.1      5.8
Factor Services (net)          -109.8  -175.7    -88.6  Copper Concentrates               226.7    25.4
Transfers (net)                 157.9   162.0    190.3  Gold                              212.1    23.8
Balance on Current Account    78.1  -263.3   -260.3  All Other Commodities                 85.2      9.5
Private Capital (net)            15.7    27.9    155.7  Total                             892.7   100.0
Public MLT Loans (net)           37.5    68.9    137.9
Errors and Omissions /b         -21.7    85.7        4.0  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Increase in Reserves            109.6   -80.7       37.3                                          US$
Million
Imports of fuel and related                               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          757.0
materials                       76.4   108.7    183.3  Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed          757.0
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 /c
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed            7.0
1977                             1980                     Nonguaranteed private Debt
US$1.00 = K 0.79                 US$1.00 = K 0.67         Total Outstanding & Disbursed             7.0
K 1.00 = USS1.26                 K 1.00 = US$1.49
1978-1979                        1981                     IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF 09/30/82)
US$1.00 = K 0.71                 US$1.00 = K 0.67                                            US$ Million
K 1.00 =uS$1.41                  K 1.00 = US$1.49                                            IBRD   IDA
1982 Jan-June                          Outstanding & Disbursed            52.0   71.0
US$1 = K 0.72                           Undisbursed                       33.5   43.1
K 1.00 = US$1.39
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  85.5  114.1
/a  Preliminary.
Tb  Including capital n.e.i.
/c  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
not available
January 1983



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                   Amounts (US$ millions)
Credit                                                     (less cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower      Purpose            Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Seven credits and six loans fully disbursed             58.5    49.4         -
1333-PNG    1976        PNG      Agriculture            12.0                 4.49
841-PNG    1978        PNG      Rural Development               20.0       10.89
1856-PNG    1980        PNG      Third Highways         17.0                17.00
1030-PNG    1980        PNG      Third Highways                  13.0        2.34
1934-PNG    1981        PNG      Primary Education       6.0                 6.00
1087-PNG    1981        PNG      Primary Education               12.0/a    11.78/b
1149-PNG    1981        PNG      Second Agric. Credit            15.o70    13.117T
2125-PNG    1982        PNG      Enga Provincial Dev.   6.0                  6.00
1227-PNG    1982        PNG      Enga Provincial Dev.             2.0/d      2.00/b
1279-PNG/e  1983        PNG      Technical Assistance             3.07f      3.00M7
Total                                       99.5   114.4       76.61
of which has been repaid                    13.3     0.3
Total now outstanding                       86.2   114.1
Amount sold                 8.1
Repaid                      7.4              0.7
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                                  85.5   114.1
Total undisbursed                           33.5    43.1       76.61
/a  Credit amount is SDR 9.4 million (equivalent of US$12.0 million at time of
commitment).
/b  Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms
of US$ commitment.
/c  Credit amount is SDR 12.3 million (equivalent of US$15.0 million at time of
commitment).
/d  Credit amount is SDR 1.7 million (equivalent of US$2.0 million at time of
commitment).
/e  Signed on November 5, 1982, but not yet effective.
/f  Credit amount is SDR 2.7 million (equivalent of US$3.0 million at time of
commitment).



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 1333    Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project;
US$12.0 Million Loan of November 19, 1976; Effective
Date: January 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to establish 9,600 ha of oil palms with
processing facilities around Popondetta. -It includes a 4,200 ha nucleus
estate and a factory to serve both estate and smallholders, developed as a
joint venture between the Government and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation. The Bank-financed portion of the project includes: 5,600 ha of
oil palm plantings, subdivided into, 1,400 smallholder plots; long-term credit
facilities for smallholders to be provided through the PNGDB; extension and
visiting inspection services; and technical assistance for project
management; social infrastructure and improvement of the road network.
All civil works have been completed. About 80% of the smallholder
plantings have been undertaken, and 95% of the families are on site. The
recent introduction of the oil palm weevil for pollination has led to a
significant decrease in labor inputs and boosted production. The project is
expected to be essentially completed by the end of 1983, in line with the
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 841   Rural Development Project I; US$20.0 Million Credit of
September 7, 1978; Effective Date: February 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Within the Southern Highlands Province, the project would provide
for research into subsistence crops, nutrition and health of the people,
expand coffee, tea, silk and cardamom production, build roads, schools and
health subcenters; support adult education and agricultural extension
services; and contribute to the general development of the province's people
and economy.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                            ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Most of the civil works under the project have been completed, and
staff recruitment has made good progress. This should permit an accelerated
implementation of components which so far have been lagging (e.g., coffee
clan blocks). Nurse training is expected to start in early 1983.
Loan No. 1856    Third Highway Project; US$13.0 Million Credit
and              and US$17.0 Million Loan of September 16, 1980;
Credit No. 1030  Effective Date:  November 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The project will assist the Government in completing its program
to improve and pave the Highlands Highway from the main port at Lae through
the Highlands region up to Togoba. It will, further, help strengthen
central and provincial governments by assistance in formulating, through the
help of consultants, a strategy for maintenance of national, provincial and
village roads. The project also provides additional assistance for transport
planning and project identification, preparation and implementation at the
national and provincial levels. The civil works have been successfully
tendered and construction is underway. Civil works are now about 50%
complete with the work scheduled to be completed in June 1984, a delay of
about 12 months beyond the appraisal estimate. The consultants' work on
rural transport studies has been completed. Consultants to assist the
improvement of road maintenance procedures and practices have been appointed
after protracted delays. Tribal fighting, social unrest and poor security
continue to cause delays and difficulties in the area.
Loan No. 1934    Primary Education; US$6.0 Million Loan
and              and US$12.0 Million Credit of May 11, 1981;
Credit No. 1087  Effective Date:  August 28, 1981;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
The project is designed to assist the primary education system
through (a) improving education management; (b) raising quality through
improved textbooks, materials and teacher training; and (c) increasing
access by assisting the provinces to expand and improve existing schools and
to establish new schools.
Initial implementation in civil works and recruitment of experts
is progressing satisfactorily. Activities have commenced to strengthen
provincial education planning in preparation for implementation of the
provincial fund. No applications for reimbursement have been submitted due
to the delay in recruitment of a project accountant.



-30 -                              YNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 1149       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$15.0 Million Credit
of December 7, 1981; Effective Date: May 26, 1982
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project would finance over a period of three years a share of
PNGDB's planned agricultural lending and also support the expansion of
related agricultural services. The project has two principal components:
(a) field development of about 8,000 ha of coffee, cocoa, oil palms and
rubber, and establishment of piggery and poultry enterprises through
subloans made by PNGDB; and (b) expansion of hybrid coconut planting
materials supplies, and of other support services to agriculture, such as
crop development teams, consultants and studies. Although disbursement from
IDA Credit has been slow due partly to the delay in loan effectiveness, the
project is progressing satisfactorily in terms of subloan disbursements,
estimated project cost, management performance and compliance with loan
conditions.
Loan 2125 and    Enga Provincial Development Project:  US$6.0 Million Loan
Credit 1227       and US$2.0 Million Credit of June 28, 1982; Effective Date:
September 16, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The proposed project constitutes the first four-year phase of the
Government's eight-year plan to accelerate social and economic development
in the Enga province.  Specifically, the project would:  (a) help to
maintain food production and improve nutrition by promoting growth in the
subsistence system through the introduction of improved agricultural tech-
nologies and practices to farmers; (b) support low-cost income-generating
activities, e.g., cash crops and small-scale enterprises; (c) improve
provicial roads, facilities for health care, and government services; (d)
increase the coverage of the formal and vocational education systems; (e)
support community development activities to promote inter-clan cooperation,
thus creating conditions conducive to development; and (f) strengthen the
provincial government, local and social services and the availability of
trained manpower through technical assistance, training and local
participation.
The project became effective on September 16, 1982. Most of the
expatriate and counterpart staff planned for recruitment in the first year
are already in place. Civil works program has been delayed due to lack of
funds. The 1983 budget contains adequate funds to cover the 1982 and 1983
works program.
Credit 1279       Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project:
US$3.0 Million Credit of November 5, 1982; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project comprises (i) a geological/geophysical reassessment
of past exploration data with the objective of preparing reports designed
to generate interest in PNG's prospects by the oil industry; (ii) strengthen-
ing of the Geological Survey Division of the Department of Minerals and



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Energy by the provision of technical assistance, the acquisition of essential
office facilities where all past exploration data would be assembled, and the
training of PNG nationals; (iii) a promotional effort aimed at inducing oil
companies to seek exploration licenses in PNG; (iv) a prefeasibility study
of the development of a small gas-condensate field in PNG and a re-evaluation
of the gas reserves from five earlier discoveries; and (v) other studies, the
scope of which remains to be determined.
The appointments of project manager and consultants are being
processed and the first contracts are being prepared.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                     24 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                     DTCA and DWS
(c) First Bank mission to
consider the project:                   July 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:          April 27, 1982
(e)  Completion of negotiations:              February 8, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           July 31, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) Bank will review the composition and scheduling of each year's
program of civil works (para. 55); and
(b) a supervision mission will be sent immediately after the loan
becomes effective to assist in expediting the initial project
implementation activities.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Condition of Disbursement:
A condition of disbursement for the two Highland Highway
sections is that detailed engineering has been completed to the
satisfaction of the Bank (para. 61).
(b) Other Conditions:
(i)  The Government will by October 31 of each year during
project implementation submit to the Bank for approval its
program of civil works for next calendar year (para. 55);



- 33 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) By July 1, 1985, the Government will furnish to the
Bank for its review a Transport Sector Development
Strategy, and subsequently submit it to NEC (para. 55);
and
(iii) The Government will take the necessary steps to acquire
land, including rights-of-way prior to award of contracts
and will furnish evidence of acquisition to the Bank
(para. 60).






;=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 1666 R
)?5   W4f8S0Tit  iE5;ii;  '  t  i;52 i ; ii9\0(15 ; :ffRQD i iIM#RttE:MEi9T:::PrRQJ;ELCTEdi;2: CeNA!K@jenC i '5'@ i 1 ' L    ;                  EE3i ARY  ; 9it 
t:iiS  P0<;290  1 f(:X5( S;StiKi;2;i;;    0 J;05 ;     Oti PROAECT    WO PONN5 G:j ; pit:Ll           .AtA                                fLiNs  X;0 t                 ii       V 
-    f   r                                                                                                                     AVONGAI:|t i620 0 (i     \                   -     :   \t       :: :          ;      6X0    : i0           :3;;\ 2i          :\::z\                ;     :fti::5z :E::(yEE fB f         9f        
\ Sf:  ; :     9  1    ;>Sii U;:::  :              f  T    !  C :R if0:f    ADAMPRif  Q\OVEETNG RROANDT V L :
5E    K, EA 5X r  5\i 5 p  K                                            ;4 k        e4A08   ;1            ~       4"   R;XA8;             S0i$         0\NUaob;A               uuRR ;0i
6   J    .    ,i    i'   2   S   <>   5  04  :t  1  - -t - s t ib 4 > 5 9 E E: : sit i97 :0 :: at Z @ : : i : 0: V : -      -    -    --  - --  -  ,  'N' ISLA  
91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ab bi; A1. ' iV  0 ii0ii<t^ / R;:N\2@@5i > Lk JC
\)   tfCkN  .>Sv  ~n\  q  _tt\2;5;:152:5 i f :9:: \\ \ii:'ll0!' :\ :09ff\>5)T0;0;i5iW  :--0 r  A'chE'd  B  e'oI i A :5
g        T -                                               (2        ;;     l74t!i:          i    i  5t  :J0t    <;  s9;r:                             EVOPR]CS                ;i   
w/      <XyV9 };i ;0; ) ;  # 2;F i i&d    ;'\)i'   ''  FUil; F ,   p 
WESTE/PAS  \ A F,<,,(fS   n\>EM?  H <             u;  01   r; t S  (7 itid;c>i; |iQA  ;ASSSESSU  S 541 40500 S ::       1  7RDPR 7ECTqLXBt6>C7REt j   8005 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
~r   <|:  ;000270  \  ;\:  0  2  i: 2 i |+ ; ^toR7DyacR^ i : t \ ) ------ Liture ~'7al0r Roo7s (S107<tiorl6Ij;iz; 0 5 )1 ' 
1;         ;7   ;t]otf5    @  )  0^   t <i5 : ;; : ' $>: 0   i:32:  :;' i95i5 4 b Po  i IRoz   7 7  i 
90 4;   L i;;  ;> ; @5  $;fpnXf'5i   i,     >      4   ;         t it :;    f            ii|0j          ?@"fior7atiist<Ra< tn6-3X0es) 
?  4   .Xl:kS,,;:  000)  i; ,  f f  f ;: ;C H, LfEriSif>)D   ;   O t\ r4      f    \: iT ;  bd S; )f Ti  L ; ; f;fS---0;iSArue'N            &  doresRItA!N       C
>;)fW10   EH7;  ?  X  0C:i)  bfi} i t1 1 kL0dLtSi tiP>kr S,-  rr >' \L f fLtV ft0SS if fE;RF07 SSD PROJECTs
hT   ;;ANO   H,6eh   >  '  e  eNGA  H;  t i t :0; ;l t 4 0 0 5 :it ;ECEX'TSMY'% >/ rl l 0-<\ 9\; lE \ \H: hl<' l) dn dA  Eng; Hghwtys L6T19fi
.  W   _  [ 1E L_a ........K.k.r........                                                                                                              1i v i4tsu   ie        r1    I e.



