[1OFFICIAL
OCUMENTS LOAN NUMBER 2265 PNG
Loan Agreement
(Road Improvement Project)
between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
Dated     0             a7          ,1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2265 PNG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAP A NEW GUINEA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to Loan   and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "DWS" means the Department of Works and Supply of the
Borrower;
(b)  "DTCA" means the Department of Transport and Civil
Aviation of the Borrower; and
(c) "DME" means the Department of Minerals and Energy of
the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-one
million dollars ($31,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-2-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to two hundred thirty thousand seven hundred sixty-
nine dollars ($230,769).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annim above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-3-
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means:  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(.iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
furth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B,
C, D.1, E.1, E.3 and F of the Project through DWS, Parts D.2 and
E.2 of the Project through DTCA and Part G of the Project through
DME with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall carry out the Project substantially
in accordance with an Action Program for Improvement of the
Transport Sector satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and


﻿-4-
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants
and experts to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and adequate
procedures to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,


﻿-5-
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
,ater date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. Prior to the award of any contract or con-
tracts for construction under Parts A, B or C of the Project, the
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect of
land, including all such rights-of-way, as shall be required for
the construction and operation of the roads and bridges included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain and repair its
national roads and the provincial roads improved under the
Project in accordance with appropriate engineering practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.07- The Borrower shall by October 31 of each year
during Project implementation furnish to the Bank for approval
the program for the civil works to be carried out under Parts A
and B of the Project in the following calendar year.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) by July 1, 1985, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
its review a Transport Sector Development Strategy; and
(b) after having taken into account the Bank's comments
thereon,  submit   said  Strategy  to   the  Borrower's   National
Executive Council for consideration.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause     to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with .consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting.all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such aidit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date   IM   F'3                 , is hereby
specified for the purposes          ction 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister for Finance
Department of Finance
Post Office Ward's Strip, Waigani
Papua New Guinea
Cable address:                     Telex:
TREASURER                         FINANCE
Boroko                            NE 22312
Papua New Guinea                  NE 22218
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿9
of Columbia, United States of Aerica, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                    65%
(a) Highlands             2,000,000
Highway
(Kudjip-Minj
Section)
(b) Highlands             4,300,000
Highway
(Watabung-
Chuave
Section)
(c) All other             8,900,000
(2) Consultants' ser-          8,300,000           100%
vices, technical
assistance and
training
(3) Fee                          230,769          Amount due
(4) Unallocated                7,269,231
TOTAL    31,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or


﻿- 11 -
in the territory .of- .the Borrower on..goad,s or services or on the
importation,, manufapture, procurement.or,,supply thereof; to that
end, if,. the amount of yany,suchJ, axes.,1evied.on or in respect of
any item to be financed out,,of the,proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $900,000, may be
made under Category 2 on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after July 30, 1982; and
(b) in respect of expenditures under Sub-categories 1 (a)
and 1 (b), for the construction of the two sections of the High-
lands Highway referred to in Part C of the Project, until the
respective engineering has been completed to the Bank's satis-
faction.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the


﻿- 12 -
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- I3 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to improve, rura3 mobility through
the rehabilitation and imprivement of roads and bridges and the
maintenance  thereof  and   to  assist  in  developing  the  road
transport industry. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
Rehabilitation or improvement of provincial road segments
totalling about 277 km.
Part B:
Rehabilitation  or  replacement  of  about   32 bridges   on
national roads.
Part C:
Improvement of two sections of the Highlands Highway (about
29 km) and of the first section of the Enga Highway (about 25 km)
Part D:
1.   Detailed engineering and construction supervision of
roads and bridges through the provision of consultants'
services therefor.
2.   The carrying out of transport policy studies and the
preparation of related transport investment programs
through   the   provision  of   consultants'   services
therefor.
Part E:
1.   Increasing the effectiveness of the management and
administration capabilities of DWS through technical
assistance and training.
2.   Improvement of the transport planning, supervisory and
monitoring   capacity  of   DTCA  and  the   provincial
governments through technical assistance.


﻿- 14 -
3.   Improvement of the domestic road construction industry
through technical assistance.
Part F:
Training, through technical assistance, of personnel of DWS
and provincial governments involved in maintenance of highways.
Part G:
The carrying out of a review of the potential hydropower
resources of the Borrower through technical assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿-' 15 -
SCHEDULE.3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February I and August 1
beginning August 1, 1987
+ through -August 1, 1999                    1,190,000-
On February 1, 2000                             1,250,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment n':1tiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                          0.88
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years                             1.00
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, civil works under Part
C of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive   bidding,  in   addition  to   the  requirements   of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of'the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Civil works under Part C of the Project in. respect of the
Watabung-Chuave section of the Highlands Highway and civil works
on provincial roads and bridges under Parts A and B of the
Project may be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank or may be carried out by
Project Management Force Account (under procedures satisfactory
to the Bank) or by force account as per the Annex to this
Schedule.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 18 -
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 19 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
HIGHLANDS HIGHWAY
Watabung-Chuave Road
Pavement and Bridges                            LCB*
All Other Works                                 PMFA**
PROVINCIAL ROADS
Category I (Engineering completed)
1.   Sila-Itokama Road                          PMFA
2.   Henagaru-Tunakau Road                      PMFA
3.   Doliba-Kilau Road                          PMFA
4.   Mai-Nuku Road                              PMFA
Category II (Engineering - underway)
1.   Aseki-Menyamya Road                       LCB
2.   Ua River-Bundi Road                       LCB
3.   Kilau-Nomame Road                          PMFA
4.   Manemp-Kol Road                           LCB
5.   Tsingoropa-Koinambe Road                  LCB
6.   Wamu River-Ubaigubi Road                   LCB
Category III
Other Roads to be identified                    To be agreed
*    "LCB" means local competitive bidding procedures.
**   "PMFA" means a Project Managed Force Account unit formed by
subcontractors, labor and plant hired under a management
team of consultants engaged by DWS for the carrying out of
works on public roads.


﻿- 21 -
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
BRIDGES
Category I (Engineering completed)
1.   Kaugel River Bridge                       LCB
2.   Kemp Welch River Bridge                   LCB
3.   Tuoima River Bridge                       FA *
4.   Wasego River Bridge                       LCB
5.   Hapmet Creek Bridge                       FA
6.   Gilagil River Bridge                      LCB
7.   Sikor Creek Bridge                         LCB
8.   Ulingan River Bridge                       LCB
Category II (Engineering - underway)
1.   Nuimen River Bridge                       FA
2.   Akanai East Bridge                        LCB
3.   Wainingi River Bridge                     LCB
4.   Drinumor River Bridge                     LCB
5.   Aitape River Bridge                       LCB
6.   Nenema River Bridge                       LCB
7.   Ormond River Bridge                        FA
8.   Raihu River Bridge                         FA
9.   Wahgi River Bridge                         FA
Category III
Other Bridges to be identified                  To be agreed
*    "FA" means force account work carried out directly by the
Borrower utilizing its own resources.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this ,9'      day of4      , 1982
FOR SECRETARY


