Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmFCIAL USE ONLY
RePOrt No. 13509
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
(CREDIT 1476-GM)
SEPTEMBER 7, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Operations V
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dalasi (Dal)
US$1.00 = Dal 9.0
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP II       Agricultural Development Project H
AfDB         African Development Bank
CPMS         Cooperative Primary Marketing Societies
DAC          District Agricultural Coordinators
DAR          Department of Agricultural Research
DAS          Department of Agricultural Services
DES          District Extension Supervisors
DOC          Department of Cooperation
FAO          Food and Agricultural Organization
GARD         Gambian Agricultural Research and Diversification project
GCU          Gambia Cooperative Union
GPMB         Gambia Produce Marketing Board
IDA          International Development Authority
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF          International Monetary Fund
ITC          International Trypanotolerance Centre
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
NSC          National Seeds Council
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
ODA          Overseas Development Authority
PBS          Program Based Budgeting System
PCC          Project Coordinating Committee
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PWC          Project Working Committee
RDP          Rural Development Project
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SMS          Subject Matter Specialist
STU          Seed Technology Unit
TO           Training Officer
T&V          Training and Visit
VEW          Village Extension Workers
WID          Women in Development



FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 8, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on The Gambia
Agricultural Development Project H (Credit 1476-GM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on The Gambia - Agricultural
Development Project II (Credit 1476-GM) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The project
was cofinanced by IFAD and the Government of Italy. Their comments on the draft report have
been incorporated.
The project was the only IDA operation approved in the agricultural sector for the
Gambia between 1976 and 1993. It was large for the size of the country and was almost sector
wide in scope. Its primary objectives were: to increase agricultural production of both export and
food crops; to assist the Government with major sectoral reforms and to consolidate progress
made under the previous project. Project preparation was protracted with excessively detailed
input and output matrices and inadequate institutional assessments.
The major components were: (a) providing fertilizer, groundnut seeds and animal
"packages" (harness, ploughs, etc.); (b) supporting and streamlining the Ministry of Agriculture;
(c) supporting agricultural extension, research and seed multiplication; and (d) developing the
Gambia Cooperative Union and its member societies. Performance was uneven. Fertilizer import
was handled in a single assignment (for three year's supply) which caused storage problems and
significant wastage. Political interference caused serious credit recovery problems and led to
widespread loss of confidence in the cooperative system. On the other hand the project had
considerable success in improving the capacity and effectiveness of the MOA and of its extension
related activities and in removing fertilizer subsidies. Overall, institutional impact was modest,
sustainability is considered uncertain, and the outcome of the project is judged to have been
unsatisfactory.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation.
Part II, prepared by the Borrower, is forthright and balanced. An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 11 (CREDIT 1476-GM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
Evaluation Summary .i                                                                      -vii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE    .I
A. Project Identity.                                                               1
B. Project Background .1
C. Project Objectives and Description.                                             2
Project Objectives.                                                           2
Project Size and Design.                                                      2
Project Components.                                                           4
Project Management.                                                           5
Technical Assistance.                                                         6
D. Project Implementation.                                                         6
Credit Effectiveness, Project Financing, Disbursement and Closing             6
Government Counterpart Funding.                                               7
E. Project Results.                                                                8
Input Supply.                                                                 8
Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture.                                9
Agricultural Extension .10
Agricultural Research  ............................                          12
Seed Multiplication .12
The Credit Component .13
Improved Performance of Rainfed Crops .16
F.  Project Sustainability  .............................                         17
Ministry of Agriculture .17
Extension ....... .............................                              18
Research .....................................                               18
Input  Supply  ..................................                            18
Credit .................                                   .....    18
G. Bank Performance .19
H. Borrower Performance .19
I. Lessons Learnt .20
PART II PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                      22
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION .......................                                  24
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
(CREDIT 1476-GM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Development Project II in The Gambia (Cr. 1476) for which US$23.9 million was approved.
The project was confinanced by the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) in the amount of US$5.0 million and by the Italian Government through a grant of
US$9.5 million. The Italian aid was tied to the procurement of Italian goods and services
allocated as follows: US$8.0 million for the procurement of fertilizers, US$0.6 for
technical assistance and US$0.9 million for the financing of local costs. The
Government's contribution was US$1.0 million.
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division, Sahel
Department, Africa Region. The PCR was sent to the cofinanciers, and their comments
have been incorporated.
The PCR is based inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's
Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision, Borrower, and Cofinanciers' reports and
correspondence contained in the Bank's project files.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II (CREDIT 1476-GM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
i.    The Gambia Agricultural Development Project II (ADP II) was approved by the Board
in March 1984 and became effective in September of that same year. The principal objectives of
the project were to consolidate progress made under the previous IDA-financed Rural
Development Project (RDP) and address the constraints which emerged during its
implementation, to assist the Government implement structural reforms in the sector, and to
increase the production and yield of rainfed agricultural crops. Specifically, over a seven year
period, the project sought to create an integrated field extension system, strengthen the
agricultural research capacity, establish a national seed program, assist the reorganization of the
Ministry of Agriculture and strengthen the country's cooperative structure. The project also aimed
to support the Government's efforts to phase out fertilizer subsidies by the end of FY88 and
finance part of fertilizer imports.
Project Size and Design
ii.    For The Gambia this was a very large project -- US$23.9 million -- amounting to more
than 10% of current GDP. The project was cofinanced by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) in the amount of US$5.0 million and by the Italian Government through
a grant of US$9.5 million. The Italian aid was tied to the procurement of Italian goods and
services allocated as follows: US$8.0 million for the procurement of fertilizers, US$0.6 for
technical assistance, and US$0.9 million for the financing of local costs. The Government's
contribution was US$1.0 million.
iii.    The project explicitly sought to avoid the mistakes of RDP, especially by having more
local involvement during project planning -- Gambian officials were very much involved in the
preparation of ADP II -- and by designing a relatively simple project. The project brief, prepared
in February 1978, proposed an ambitious project of US$30 million with an excessive number of
components. The project was later scaled down both in size and components, though livestock,
which was omitted, should have been included since it is an integral part of Gambian farm
activities. The main components of the project were: (a) providing fertilizer, groundnut seeds and
animal "packages" (harnesses, ploughs etc); (b) supporting and streamlining the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA); (c) supporting agricultural extension, research and seed multiplication; (d)
developing the Gambia, Cooperative Union (GCU) and its member societies.
Project Preparation, Implementation and Management.
iv.    The project took four years to prepare. Much of this time was spent defining the project.
The process of having 15 working groups dealing with that many sub-sectors generated more
proposals for project components than could be accommodated. The advantage of this approach,
however, was stronger Government involvement and commitment. Project preparation was also
delayed due to difficulties filling a financing gap of US$9.5 million after the British ODA
declined to participate. Two PPFs were used, and thereafter, disbursement of the credit was slow,
and consistently below the profile anticipated at appraisal (Part III Table 3). Of the total credit
amount, only US$18.7 million (64%) was eventually disbursed. The closing date was extended
twice, and the project closed on June 30, 1993.



iii
v.     The project was coordinated by the Deputy Permanent Secretary responsible for all
agricultural programs and projects of the MOA with the support of a small unit. This helped
promote the integration of the project into the sector as a whole. Project execution was the
responsibility of the participating technical departments, an arrangement that worked well except
for GCU. The SAR proposed an extraordinarily complex administrative structure which proved
unworkable in practice and was soon dropped. The amount of technical assistance used - 21.75
years - was excessive and its effectiveness varied widely. Problems with the timely availability
of counterpart funding occasionally disrupted implementation.
Project Results.
vi.     Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA): The project had considerable
success in improving the capacity and effectiveness of the MOA. The Ministry's operations were
streamlined, unnecessary departments (such as mechanical services) were privatized, and others
performing complementary functions merged. Two new departments - the Departments of
Agricultural Services and Agricultural Research - were set up to replace the former departments
of Agriculture and Crop Protection, and a Personnel and Training Unit was established. In the
process of streamlining the Ministry, a retrenchment program resulted in the eliminatior. of 1,221
positions and considerable budgetary savings - at the end of the project, total salary costs of the
Ministry were about one-third of salary costs at the beginning of the project in real terms. The
project also up-graded the skills of MOA staff; 72 staff were sent for formal training ranging
from agricultural extension to crop science to financial management. In addition, a Program
Based Budgeting System (PBS) was introduced into the MOA, and a program to cover MOA's
computing needs was carried out including microcomputer purchasing, training and operations.
As a result, the MOA financial staff are among the most computer-literate in the Government.
vii.    Agricultural Extension: Under the project, the extension services for rainfed crops were
to be merged and a unified service established along Training and Visit (T&V) lines. This had
mixed results. On the positive side, the extension system was intended to cover 10,500 farm
families in all 6 Divisions, but covered twice this number by the end of the project. On the
negative side, while village extension workers (VEWs) were established in the field, their
transport was continually a problem due to poor maintenance of vehicles and lack of fuel. The
low technical quality of extension staff was also a serious problem, especially among SMSs and
extension managers, adversely affecting the supervision and quality of training provided to
VEWs. The project financed substantial training to extension staff, but during the course of the
project there was little evident improvement in their performance. As a result, the quality of
farmer training and demonstrations was poor. Project design should have provided more basic
training for extension staff through a pre-implementation phase.
viii.  It was expected that the T&V system would cover all crops, but this did not happen. The
extension activities for cotton and the Jahally Patchar rice project (funded by other donors) were
not integrated into the national extension service resulting in conflicting advice being given to
farmers and poor morale among staff due to differing fringe benefits.
ix.    Extension activities were also weakened by the poor linkage between research and
extension. This weakness was due to several reasons. First, because of the poor qualifications and
experience of extension staff, the researchers had difficulty interacting with them. Second, the
bi-monthly meetings between research and extension staff ceased to take place early on in the
project, and few joint research and extension trials were undertaken. Third, the splitting of the



iv
Research and Agricultural Services Departments resulted in bureaucratic impediments between
interactions among the staff of the respective departments.
x.     Extension staff also ignored important technical messages. In particular, soil and water
conservation practices and the use of compost were not included yet were critical practices for
maintaining and improving soil productivity. In addition, the exclusion of livestock extension
from the project was detrimental since livestock and cropping are integral activities at the farm
level. The need to include livestock was subsequently recognized by both the Bank and
Government, and by the last year of the project it was included. Despite these many
shortcomings, extension staff persuaded farmers to adopt several new technologies. An evaluation
report of 1990 found that around half the farmers contacted through extension adopted
recommended practices.
xi.    Agricultural Research: The project sought to strengthen the research capacity of the
Agricultural Research Station at Sapu and improve links with other agricultural research
institutes. However, once the project got underway, a USAID-funded Gambian Agricultural
Research and Diversification (GARD) project promoting essentially the same research goals as
* ADP II, became operational. It fostered Gambian research collaboration with international
research centers, strengthened the activities on on-farm trials using results emerging from
research stations and identified a number of adapted varieties of groundnuts, maize, sorghum and
millet. Since this was a national project, it made no sense for ADP II to attempt to achieve the
same research goals. So, in 1987, the Government, in consultation with IDA, transferred the
research activities planned under ADP II to the GARD project and ADP II's support for research
was limited to improving the physical infrastructure of the research station at Sapu. By all
accounts, the GARD project successfully improved the agricultural research capacity in The
Gambia, so the decision to curtail ADP II's support for research to infrastructure was
appropriate. It is unclear, however, why the scope and timing of the GARD project was not taken
into account at the time of appraisal of ADP II.
xii.   Seed Multiplication: The project sought to strengthen the national seed multiplication
program so that high quality seeds would be available to farmers on demand. In the end,
however, no functioning seed multiplication program was set up. The Seed Technology Unit
(STU) at Sapu was responsible for organizing seed multiplication programs. During the project
period, the STU produced improved cultivars of groundnuts, rice, maize, sorghum and millet and
foundation seeds of rice, groundnuts and maize. The project also supported the production of
certified seeds from these foundation seeds, but how this was to be done was not clearly worked
out during appraisal. The Government decided to contract NGOs to produce the certified seeds
in collaboration with farmers, but this proved to be unsustainable. The supply of foundation seeds
from Sapu was inadequate and unreliable, due largely to Sapu's weak management and limited
human resources, and after a few years, the NGOs pulled out of the program, causing
considerable disruption to the seed supply in the country.
xiii.  In 1992 a new decentralized seed production system was initiated whereby foundation
seed produced by STU was supplied to the District Extension Supervisors (DESs) who produced
certified seed in collaboration with selected farmers. These certified seeds were to be then
distributed more widely to other farmers. This arrangement has the potential to work well, but
will take time to get established and tested.
xiv.   Input Supply: The provision of fertilizer through the project was fraught with problems.
In line with an agreement with the IMF, fertilizer subsidies were removed over a three-year



v
period ending June 30,1988 and over this period the bulk of fertilizer imports were financed by
the Italian cofinancing grant of USS8 million. The supply of fertilizer from Italy had serious
problems. First, the supply was erratic; the initial shipment, expected for the 1985/86 cropping
season, arrived late causing a national fertilizer crisis and a loss in production estimated at 10%
of agricultural GDP. Second, most of the fertilizer supply arrived in one year (FY 1985/86); in
fact, the entire importation of urea sufficient for the country's needs for 5 years arrived in that
year creating enormous storage problems for Government and resulting in a large decline in
quality since the nitrogen content declines the longer urea is stored. Third, the unit cost of the
fertilizer was excessively high. The price per ton based on fertilizer invoices of the Italian
suppliers averaged 64% more than current world market prices plus freight. Perhaps the most
serious problem of all, however, was that this arrangement precluded the development of a
viable, national system of fertilizer importation and distribution - a situation that still continues.
xv.   The project also provided groundnut seeds and draft animal equipment (harnesses,
ploughs etc). In the SAR oxen imports were planned but did not take place. Inputs were sold on
a cash or credit basis by the Gambian Cooperative Union (GCU) to cooperatives which, in turn,
sold them to farmers. The supply of these inputs was, however, disrupted by serious problems
with the credit system.
xvi.   The Credit Component: The project included a major credit component intended to
strengthen GCU and the Cooperative Primary Marketing Societies (CPMSs) with a credit line of
US$4.2 million made available for financing farm machinery, groundnuts for seeds, crop
chemicals and fertilizer. GCU provided these inputs mostly on a credit basis to the CPMSs
which provided them - again usually on credit - to individual members. Recovery was effected
by cash deductions from the proceeds of crop sales to the CPMS which were sent to GCU. Over
the project period 86 CPMS received credit and in certain seasons up to 50,000 individual
members benefitted from loans.
xvii.  However, because of GCU's financial mismanagement and political interference, loan
recovery was a serious problem during the course of the project. The Mid-term Review of the
project in October 1986 was extremely critical of the lack of financial discipline in GCU and
recommended a fundamental reform of the credit delivery system. This reform program, which
included upgrading the GCU Credit Department, was not implemented until the arrival of an
expatriate credit manager in April 1988. By this time the loan recovery rate had declined to 48%.
Thereafter, some improvements were made in GCU, especially in the credit unit, and operating
costs were reduced. In addition, a Village Branch lending system was introduced on a pilot basis.
However, the practice of lending to CPMSs regardless of their repayment record continued.
There was also a problem with audits: there has been no satisfactory audit of GCU since 1985/86.
xviii.  The situation at the time of the credit closing was that Dal 38.4 million (around US$4
million) of ADP II funds for input supplies through GCU was unaccounted for. While farmers
undoubtedly benefitted from the supply of inputs, none of this was repaid to Government. A
revolving fund, set up for repayments from farmers, did not function and apparently was empty
(GCU has been unable to provide details). It is fair to say that extremely poor management and
political interference combined to bankrupt GCU: all its assets are presently mortgaged, and the
three top managers are on administrative leave pending an official investigation of GCU activities
by an independent auditing firm.  Perhaps most serious is that farmers' confidence in the
cooperative system has been badly shaken, and there is still no viable rural credit system in The
Gambia.



vi
Project Sustainability
xix.   The project had mixed success in setting up sustainable improvements in agricultural
support services. The reorganization of MOA and upgrading of its staff were two of the more
successful features of the project. Expectations were unrealistically high regarding extension,
given that the training and experience of extension staff were very poor. At the end of the
project, however, most extension staff and farmers - particularly women who account for 60%
of contact farmers -- had some familiarity with the T&V system, and with the continued support
of Government and IDA through the recently-approved, IDA-financed Agricultural Services
Project (ASP), this progress should be sustained.  With research, the project only funded
infrastructure. The GARD project was reasonably successful in meeting its objectives, which
were similar to the research objectives of ADP II, hence the decision to delete the research
component from ADP II was appropriate. Any sustainable improvement will depend on continued
Government support through the ASP. The project failed to establish a sustainable system for
input supply. The strategy for seed supply did not work, and no satisfactory importation and
distribution system for fertilizer was set up. Regarding credit, the project failed to set up a viable
agricultural credit system despite continuous efforts of Government and the Bank.
Lessons Learnt
xx.   The extensive participation of Government in project conception and design fostered a
strong sense of ownership and commitment, especially among those managing the project.
However, a more clearly defined scope of the project would have reduced the lengthy preparation
time. Having a deputy permanent secretary who was responsible for all agricultural programs and
projects as the project coordinator helped integrate the project into the sector as a whole. This
integration of the project into the ministerial services was very successful and should be routinely
adopted. However, the amount of technical assistance used in implementing the project - 21.75
years - was excessive and its effectiveness varied widely.
xxi.   The project expected too much too soon given the country's institutional weaknesses (such
as GCU) and human capital needs (such as the low level of education and training of the
extension agents). More time should have been given to strengthening both. The project supported
considerable training of extension staff, but the impact of such training has only recently become
evident. Similarly, no credit should have been channelled through GCU until there was clear
evidence of financial discipline.
xxii.   ADP II focussed excessively on rainfed crops - particularly groundnut production and
yields. More explicit support (especially through research and extension) should have been given
to crop diversification - such as horticultural crops and irrigated agriculture - and to livestock
production. Omitting livestock, a key feature of Gambian agriculture, from the project until the
last year was detrimental to both livestock services and the quality of the extension messages
given to farmers.
xxiii. The SAR was unrealistically specific in the quantity of inputs the project was expected
to finance. Similarly, production and yield targets given in the SAR were overly optimistic, being
based on the optimum application of these inputs. Estimating the economic rate of return (ERR)
involved lengthy and detailed calculations. The SAR expected an ERR of 23%; for this PCR it
has been re-estimated at 2%. Yet for this kind of project, the ERR is a meaningless tool because
of lack of any clear relationship between project investments and agricultural performance.



vii
xxiv.  The decision that the distribution and sale of inputs would continue to be the
responsibility of the cooperative system as it functioned in The Gambia was misguided. The
cooperative structure lacked accountability and was vulnerable to political interference, as had
been clear from the experience of the previous Rural Development Project (RDP). Given the
dismal financial record and continued financial disarray of GCU, and particularly, the inability
of other Government agencies to keep political interference at bay, no credit component should
have been included until there was clear evidence of improved financial discipline. The financing
of GCU activities through the project was eventually terminated at the second extension of the
project, but this should have been done earlier.
xv.    The project failed to develop a reliable supply of inputs at reasonable unit cost. With
regard to seed multiplication, the arrangement with the Seed Multiplication Unit did not work
satisfactorily, and Gambian farmers are still without any sustainable seed multiplication
arrangement. Regarding fertilizer, the arrangement with the Italian Government did not serve
Gambian farmers well. Imports were irregular and unit cost high. No viable importation and
distribution system was set in place. As the experience with this project shows, allowing fertilizer
procurement to take place under bilateral deals can be very harmful to the recipient country: the
farmer pays heavily in terms of higher unit costs and erratic deliveries. In The Gambia, a clear
and transparent policy on fertilizer importation is still very much needed.
xxvi.  The project should have been more cautious in introducing a new national extension
system, given the low levels of education and training among the extension staff and the logistical
problems involved in introducing such a system. A phased approach would have been preferable.
xxvii. Regarding agricultural research, USAID involvement in research through the GARD
project was -successful; so the decision to eliminate this component from ADP II was not only
appropriate but a good example of exercising flexibility during project implementation. However,
in such a small country as The Gambia, the separation of research from extension activities made
no sense. Yet over the course of the project, research and extension were separated into two
independent departments, thereby weakening their crucial linkages and inflating the government
bureaucracy.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II (CREDIT 1476-GMI)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:  .........  Agricultural Development Project II
Credit Number:  .........   1476-GM
RVP Unit: .........  Africa V
Country:    ............................   The  Gambia
Sector: ......... Agriculture
B. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The Republic of The Gambia is a narrow strip of land (10,700 sq. km.) located on the
west coast of Africa and surrounded on three sides by Senegal. Limited natural resources and
an underdeveloped human capital base have constrained diversification of the economy and its
growth. In addition, the expanding human and animal population are steadily increasing pressure
on fragile natural resources. A high population density on agricultural land (210 inhabitants per
sq.km.in 19911/) is becoming an unsettling development and raising concerns about
environmental issues. The Gambia's open, undiversified economy is vulnerable to volatile
changes in the external environment such as adverse weather conditions, fluctuations in the world
prices of the main export commodity -- groundnuts -- and a few other agricultural products, and
external conditions in neighboring countries.
2.    The Gambia is one of the least developed countries in SSA with a per capita GNP of
US$360 (1991). The mainstay of the economy is the undiversified agricultural production
established on the flat, arable land along the Gambia river, suitable for rainfed cultivation of
cereals, groundnuts, and other agricultural products. Agriculture, traditionally concentrated in
groundnuts and cereals, supports about 75% of the active population. In the past decade,
agricultural production has been adversely affected by irregular and inadequate rainfall in the
absence of substantial irrigated agriculture. In recent years tl ere has been some progress in
diversifying the sector, mainly through horticultural and livestock products.
3.    The Gambia's economy is highly dependent on imports because of its limited natural
resources and industrial and technological base which also constrain export capacity. Past
economic policies did little to broaden the export base, relying on one commodity -- groundnuts,
which accounts for about 70% of the value of domestically-produced exports. About one-third
of food requirements are imported. Until recently, a decline in world market prices of groundnuts
meant that export receipts were inadequate to sustain the country's growing import demands.
Recent efforts to diversify exports through tourism, horticultural products, and re-exports of
imported goods have improved earnings and slightly changed the export structure. However, the
increase of regional re-exports is related to trade distortions in neighboring countries, and is
highly vulnerable, as the recent closing of border trade with Senegal has shown. This
vulnerability underscores the urgency to diversify its agricultural production.
I/ In view of the recent (1993) census estimate of total population of I million, this density
may well be higher.



4.    In 1985 the Government embarked on an Economic Reform Program (ERP) to stabilize
the economy, reorient government investment, and strengthen and reform institutional structures
central to development priorities.  In the first phase, Government implemented critical
stabilization measures, which were largely successful and set the stage for phased reform of the
parastatal sector and the promotion of agricultural production. The ERP supported reforrn
measures in the agricultural sector, particularly phasing out of the fertilizer subsidy, improving
price incentives for groundnuts, and institutional improvements in the supply of inputs and credit,
and in the storage, marketing and processing of the groundnut produce.
5.     The objectives of ADP II were consistent with Government strategy as articulated in the
Development Plans (the Second and Third Five-Year Development Plans, 1981/82 to 1985/86,
and 1986/87 to 1990/91, respectively). These Plans emphasized: (i) increasing food production;
(ii) achieving a speedy recovery in groundnut production; and (iii) diversifying food and crop
production. The Project also sought to consolidate the progress made under the Bank-supported
Rural Development Project (RDP) (Credit 644-GM), the total cost of which was US$11.7
million. This project, which was effective November 1976 and closed March 1982, aimed to
increase cereal, cash crop and livestock production through introducing proven packages of
technical recommendations for crop production supported by better coordinated and strengthened
Government services, and improved communications and marketing. While attempting to build
on the achievements of RDP, ADP II also made considerable effort to avoid some of the
problems encountered under RDP; this is discussed further below.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
6.     According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the principal project objectives were to:
(i) consolidate progress made under RDP (para.5) and address the constraints which emerged
during its implementation; (ii) assist the Government with major sectoral reforms; and (iii)
improve production of rainfed export and food crops. Specifically, the project would: support
the increased production and yield of upland rainfed crops by creating an integrated field
extension system, strengthening the research capacity, establishing a comprehensive national seed
program, assisting the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and strengthening
the country's cooperative structure. The project would also support the Government's efforts to
phase out fertilizer subsidies by the end of FY88 by financing part of the fertilizer imports.
7.     The project, which was national in scope, aimed to extend agricultural support services
throughout the country, and, at the end of the project period, benefit an additional 10,500
households. At full development, the project aimed to generate an incremental annual production
of 13,200 tons of groundnuts, 2,100 tons of cotton, 3,000 tons of paddy, 3,800 tons of maize
and 1,100 tons of millet and sorghum.
Project Size and Design
8.    For The Gambia, this was a very large project -- US$23.9 million -- amounting to more
than 10% of current GDP. The project was cofinanced by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) in the amount of US$5.0 million and by the Italian Government through
a grant of US $9.5 million. The Italian aid was tied to the procurement of Italian goods and



services and was allocated as follows: US$8.0 million for the procurement of fertilizers (US$7.0
million for urea and compounds and US$1.0 million for superphosphates); US$0.6 million for
technical assistance; and US$0.9 million for the financing of local costs. This US$0.9 million
helped relieve a severe shortage of counterpart funding. The fertilizer was to be procured over
a three-year period on an annual basis to be agreed with Government. The Government's
contribution was originally set at US$2.4 million, or 13% of the project's incremental costs.
However, over the year and a half that it took between appraisal (October 1982) and negotiations
(March 1984), the Government's fiscal situation had deteriorated markedly. The Government had
embarked on a stabilization program agreed with the IMF which committed them to a 50% cut
in an already shrunken development budget. Bank staff were of the view that these developments
would make it impossible for the Government to sustain a commitment of this magnitude and
could adversely affect project execution. Bank staff therefore requested, and were granted an
increase in IDA contribution by US$1.4 million, making IDA's total contribution US$ 9.4
million, or 50% of the project's incremental costs, and reducing the Government's obligation to
US$ 1.0 million or 5% of the incremental project costs.
9.     The project explicitly sought to avoid some of the mistakes of RDP. In particular, efforts
were made to have more local involvement at the planning stage to ensure stronger Government
commitment during implementation. This was very definitely the case with ADP II. Gambian
officials were fully involved in the project preparation; a task force was formed and multi-
disciplinary teams produced position papers on key sub-sectors.
10.   The intention to make the design of ADP II relatively simple made sense in view of the
experience with RDP.  After much debate within the Bank, with actual and prospective
cofinanciers, and with Government, the project was scaled down during preparation and the
livestock, forestry, irrigation, nutrition, feeder roads, and swampland development components
were dropped. There was good reason, however, to include livestock. Mixed farming was of
growing importance in The Gambia, and the growing use of animal traction to relieve labor
bottlenecks had been noted during project preparation. At appraisal, however, livestock was
excluded from the project primarily to simplify its design. It also appears that the linkages
between agriculture and livestock activities were not fully appreciated by some Bank staff.
Preparation documents also noted the existence of an ongoing livestock-related activity in The
Gambia -- the AfDB-funded International Trypanotolerance Centre (ITC) program. But in fact
ITC was only involved with the control of trypanosomiasis; it did not cover measures to improve
livestock production. As a result, the provision of livestock services did not improve over the
project period, since only local funds were available and some staff had been seconded to ITC.
11.   The project also sought to pay more attention to the promotion of women's farming
activities than under RDP. This was de-emphasized because of unforeseen circumstances. The
Appraisal Report referred to the needs of women farmers, but the strategy of how to do this was
not well defined. An appropriate strategy may have developed during the implementation of the
project but in 1985 a self-standing Women in Development (WID) project, which included an
agricultural component, was approved by IDA. This project sought, with considerable success,
to improve the effectiveness of agricultural extension for women farmers. To avoid duplication
of efforts, ADP II made no specific attempts to promote women's farming activities.



-4 -
Project Components
12.   At the time of appraisal, the project was expected to contain the following components:
(a) Crop Development: The production and yield of groundnuts, maize, rainfed rice,
cotton, millet and sorghum were expected to increase over the life-span of the project. The SAR
was quite specific concerning the extent of this expected increase, which was to be achieved
through a reorganized and integrated extension service providing farmer training, improved
cultural practices such as more effective use of animal drawn equipment, timely planting and
maintenance of optimum plant population per unit area, more effective use of fertilizers, and a
restructured cooperative movement. The project aimed to finance the supply of farm inputs to
be distributed by the Gambian Cooperative Union (GCU). The SAR was unrealistically specific
in that, over the project period, these inputs were expected to include 6,650 tons of fertilizers,
1,239 tons of seed, 990 oxen pairs, 3,300 "oxen packages" (animal drawn equipment) and some
hand tools. Despite the unpredictable impact of such exogenous factors as weather and world
market prices on agricultural production, the SAR was quite specific in the increase in production
and yield expected over the project period and which was based on the optimum application of
these inputs.
(b) Support of Institutions:  According to the SAR, this involved three aspects:
reorganizing the MOA field extension services, and creating an integrated rainfed crop extension
service using the T&V approach; strengthening the primary marketing societies and supporting
their development into "multi-purpose self-financing farming services organizations" including
the establishment of farm input delivery, sales outlets, and credit facilities; and strengthening the
Project Coordinating Unit, and the Project Planning and Monitoring Unit to monitor and execute
the program. Curiously, one of the more successful aspects of this project, the reorganization
and streamlining of the MOA, was not cited as an institutional objective. This objective was also
supported by an on-going SAL.
(c) Agricultural Research: It was expected at appraisal that the project would provide
support for the continuation of agricultural research initiated under RDP, with increased emphasis
on farming systems and upland crops. Support was to be concentrated on strengthening the
research unit at Sapu, conducting off-station trials in farmers' fields, identifying improved
cultivars of rainfed crops adapted to Gambian needs and conditions, and improving contacts with
relevant national and international agricultural research institutions.
(d) Seed Multiplication:  The project was to build on earlier support to the Seed
Multiplication Unit (SMU) at Sapu by RDP and also by the British aid agency, the Overseas
Development Authority (ODA). Through this support, it was expected that the SMU would be
able to multiply groundnut, rice, maize, sorghum and millet seed to meet the country's needs
through the production of foundation and certified seeds on the Sapu station, and in the case of
groundnut, improved seed through contract growers. NGOs would be contracted to multiply these
foundation seeds into certified seeds which would then be bought back by SMU using a revolving
fund. The agricultural extension services, in collaboration with the cooperative societies, would
supervise further multiplication by selected cooperative members and improved seed would be
bought back by cooperative societies on behalf of the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB)
prior to distribution to farmers for commercial production. A seed processing plant funded by
FAO had already been constructed at Sapu and an ODA-funded specialist would train Gambians
in the use and maintenance of this plant as well as develop a seed marketing policy covering



- 5 -
pricing of certified and improved grades for recovery of an agreed share of seed costs and
cooperative distribution costs. A pricing policy statement to recover at least operating and
distribution costs was submitted to and approved by IDA in 1984 prior to submitting the project
to the Board.
(e)  Cooperative Development and Credit: A key component of the project was the
development of the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU), its member societies, and the Department
of Cooperation (DCO) in MOA. The project sought to strengthen the credit structure of GCU,
helped by a cooperatives advisor who was hired under a PPF and a credit advisor who was
recruited later. The Primary Multi-purpose Cooperative Societies (PMCS) would be provided
with funds for groundnut storage facilities and equipment for 38 buying stations for the
groundnuts. The DOC of the MOA was also to be provided with funds for transport, an office,
operating costs and training. The distribution and sales of inputs would continue to be the
responsibility of the cooperative structure. The SAR recognized that this arrangement for input
supply had not worked well under RDP but hoped for improvements under ADP II. Fertilizer and
agro-chemicals would be purchased from GPMB by GCU with funds provided by the project,
and equipment purchased by the project was to be distributed for cash or on credit to farmers.
The proceeds of ADP II that were passed on to GCU were in the form of an interest-free loan
to be repaid at the end of 10 years or converted into an equity contribution at the end of 10 years.
During negotiations, the Gambian delegation requested that GCU be required to pay a
commission fee of 1% on the principal amount of the Credit outstanding. Bank staff however
argued that in view of GCU's difficult financial situation, this would not be advisable. The Bank
prevailed.
f)   Recurrent Fertilizer Imports:  As part of the Economic Reform Program the
Government had agreed with IDA and the IMF to phase out fertilizer subsidies from 60% to zero
by end June 1988. In view of the Government's tight financial situation, the project financed
two-thirds of the necessary recurrent fertilizer imports for a three-year period ending June 30,
1987. By this time it was expected that the Government would have improved its foreign
exchange position to enable it to finance these imports itself. This component was financed by
ADP II in the form of an Italian grant. The fertilizer price adjustments consistent with this
elimination of subsidy were worked out annually in consultation with IDA and announced by
December Ist each year.
Project Management
13.   The project was coordinated by the Deputy Permanent Secretary, Programs and Projects,
of the MOA with the support of a small unit. Project execution was the responsibility of
participating technical departments (DAS and DAR) and GCU. With the exception of GCU, this
arrangement worked well. In particular, having a Deputy Permanent Secretary responsible for
all agricultural programs and projects in the MOA helped promote the integration of the project
into the sector strategy as a whole so that the project did not become isolated, which was a
problem with RDP. Project implementation was the direct responsibility of the departments and
organizations receiving funding. This was a major difference from RDP which helped ensure
commitment at the department level where project activities were seen as an integral part of their
duties.
14.   The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the MOA was relatively weak due largely to weak
management. Because of its poor performance, in 1990 the unit was merged with the Department
of Agricultural Services (DAS) and thereafter its performance improved.



- 6 -
15.   The SAR proposed an extraordinarily complex administrative structure, adding two new
tiers: the Project Coordinating Working Committee at head office level, and Divisional
Coordinating Committees at the field level. These were recommended by the World Bank to
promote better government participation in project implementation. While these were created,
they did not function from the onset, being excessively bureaucratic and superfluous. In addition,
there were serious problems with the inefficiency of the Government's Central Tender Board,
resulting in extremely long delays (up to 9 months) in processing procurement documents. The
Board did not understand well the issues of project management, and was excessively
bureaucratic. This problem has been highlighted in the Bank's Country Implementation Review
and a study on procurement arrangements in The Gambia has been commissioned by the ongoing
Public Works Project. It is expected that the recommendations of this study will be supported by
the forthcoming Economic Management Sector Adjustment Credit.
Technical Assistance
16.   The technical assistance used by this project was excessive. A total of 21.75 years was
used, exceeding the 16.5 years planned at appraisal (Table 9 in Part III). The effectiveness of
this assistance varied widely: by all accounts the Italian-funded manpower development consultant
was helpful in advising on the reorganization of MOA and in developing a training program for
MOA staff. The Project Accountant, hired while the local accountant was overseas being trained,
was also adequate. Some of the others were less effective, reflecting more the less conducive
environment than their own competency. The first credit advisor hired under PPF arrangements
was ineffective with no real authority. The second credit advisor had considerably more authority
as credit manager and produced extensive guidelines on cooperative lending, as well as promoting
the village-branch system of lending While he performed well, his effectiveness in ensuring a
sound, viable credit structure was limited by the unreceptive environment. Similarly, the
extension advisor, an international expert in his field, was frustrated by the lack of progress in
setting up the T&V system of extension. But his expectations were unrealistic given the training
and preparation that was needed to fully get the system underway.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness, Project Financing, Disbursement and Closing
17.   The project was appraised at the end of 1982 after an extended period of preparation.
The Project Brief, prepared in February 1978, proposed an ambitious project of US$30 million
with components ranging from extension, research, marketing input supply, feeder roads,
forestry, livestock, and swampland development through irrigation. A nutrition component was
later added. Project preparation was done in three phases: first, 15 working groups were set up,
each to produce a working paper covering the different components; second, the final working
papers were reviewed by Government and the Bank; and third, a preparation report was
produced. This report, produced in January 1980, estimated project costs at US$40 million,
which in the view of Bank staff, was too high.
18.   Much of the four years preparation was thus spent defining the project. The process of
having 15 working groups dealing with that many sub-sectors generated more proposals for
project components than could be accommodated, and, as a result, the third phase of producing



- 7 -
the preparation report took longer than anticipated. The advantage of this approach, however, is
stronger Government commitment.
19.   Project preparation was also delayed due to difficulties encountered in filling a financing
gap of US$9.5 million, which, for over a year, made final processing of the project highly
uncertain. Consultations with the British ODA had raised expectations that they would cofinance.
However, because of their concern over the size and complexity of the project, ODA's
cofinancing did not materialize. After lengthy discussions, the Italians confirmed their willingness
to cofinance the project in December 1983, and project negotiations with The Gambian
Government were held in March 1984.
20.   Two PPFs were used to prepare the project. The first, for US$300,000, financed
consultant services to carry out a survey in preparation for the project's civil works construction
program. The second, for US$370,000, was to finance the services of a financial advisor and
architectural fees for building design preparation activities, including a master plan for the
research station at Sapu. At the request of the Government, US$125,000 of these PPFs was
reallocated to provide interim financing (until ADP II became effective) for two other
components: the Sapu Research and Seed Multiplication Units, which had been financed until
March 31, 1984 by the British ODA but which was no longer providing such funding; and a
continuation of financing for additional staff and operating costs for GCU.
21.   After the PPFs were used, disbursement of the credit was rather slow, and consistently
below the profile anticipated at appraisal (Table 3 of Part III). Of the total credit amount, only
US$ 18.7 million (64%) was eventually disbursed. Excluding the Italian grant which was in kind
(fertilizer), and the Government contribution, US$9.4 million out of US$14.4 million (65%) was
disbursed and 70% of IDA's contribution of US$9.4 million was disbursed.
22.   The closing date of the credit was extended twice. The first extension, from June 30,
1991 to June 30, 1992, was to enable the project to concentrate on those components that would
be the core of a follow-up project, i.e. applied research, extension and monitoring. The second
extension, from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1993, was to maintain continuity in certain project
activities and initiate others (such as extension covering livestock and natural resource
management) until the Agricultural Services Project became effective in October 1993. GCU also
requested support during this second extension, but the Bank refused to allow any further funds
to be used for credit, and support for GCU was limited to certain operational expenses. Under
the subsequent Agricultural Services Project, GCU has not received any funding.
Government Counterpart Funding
23.   The volatility of Government counterpart funding was a serious problem. Amounts
fluctuated from Dal 109,000 in FY89/90 to Dal 783,150 the following year, making effective
budgeting by project management impossible. In addition, overall amounts allocated by
Government were insufficient. Agriculture as a whole received only around 3%  of the
Government's total recurrent expenditures over the project period, and, of that, ADP II received
around 10%. In the early years of the project, the Italian grant funds for fertilizer handling of
around $90,000 annually were used to supplement counterpart funds and greatly helped the
situation. However, they ended in 1990, and during the final years of the project, the shortage
of counterpart funding was serious.



E. PROJECT RESULTS
Input supply.
24.    Fertilizer: The provision of fertilizer through ADP II was fraught with problems. Under
the project (and in line with agreement with the IMF to reduce distortions in the agricultural
sector), the Government agreed to eliminate fertilizer subsidies by June 30, 1988. The project
assisted Government in this effort by financing two-thirds of the recurrent fertilizer requirements
of the agricultural sector over a three-year period ending June 30, 1987. The appraisal report
notes that the Government's foreign exchange situation would make the timely allocation of
resources for recurrent fertilizer imports very difficult, thereby threatening agricultural
production. It was felt that, by the end of this three-year period, the Government would have
restructured its budgetary mechanism to ensure the allocation of sufficient foreign exchange to
cover the sector's fertilizer requirements. It was agreed in the Development Credit Agreement
that, not later than October I in each year, the Government would make budgetary allocations
adequate to meet the fertilizer imports during the following fiscal year.
25.    By 1987 fertilizer subsidies had been removed and over this three-year period, 28,000
tons of fertilizer imports were funded by an Italian cofinancing grant agreement of US $8 million.
Since much of this came in one year (para 26), a subsidy was again introduced on urea and
fertilizer compound 8-24-24 in order to sell the glut of fertilizer as quickly as possible. In 1990
all subsidies were once more removed, and the official prices more than doubled in nominal
terms.
26.    The supply of fertilizer from Italy had its problems. One was the erratic nature of the
supply. The initial shipment, expected for the 1985/86 cropping season arrived late causing a
national fertilizer crisis as limited carryover stocks had to be used. This resulted in a substantial
loss in production, estimated at 9.9% of agricultural GDP, or Dal 19 million. The bulk of the
fertilizer supply (10,000 tons urea, 5,000 compound fertilizer and 4,000 tons superphophates)
arrived in The Gambia that cropping season (FY 1985/86); in fact, the entire importation of urea
sufficient for the country's needs for 5 years arrived in that one year creating enormous storage
problems for the Government. There was also a substantial decline in quality given the
hygroscopic nature of urea and as nitrogen is volatile, its content falls the longer urea is stored.
Bank staff protested to the Italian Government about the size of the shipment, which the Italian
Government argued would save on freight charges by shipping such a huge amount. Such savings
were not, however, realized, as explained below (para 28).
27.    Another problem was unit cost of fertilizer. The price per ton based on the fertilizer
invoices of the Italian suppliers averaged 64% more than current world market prices plus freight
(with the excess ranging from 27% for superphosphates to 103% for urea). Bank staff also
complained about the procurement arrangements. It had been agreed at negotiations that IDA
would supervise on behalf of the Italian Department of Development Cooperation the procurement
of fertilizer with the understanding that Bank guidelines would be applied to such procurement.
This procedure was not, however, followed by the Italian Government. Perhaps the most serious
problem of all was that this arrangement precluded the development of a viable, national system
of fertilizer importation and distribution - a situation that still continues.
28.    Other inputs: Other than fertilizer, data are unavailable on the amount of groundnut
seeds and oxen "packages" provided under the credit. This information was requested from GCU



-9-
but not provided. The present audit of GCU being undertaken by an independent auditing firm
(see para 59 below) should contain this information but it has not yet been completed. No oxen
were bought under the project since it was decided that the risk of mortality was too high to
warrant the importation and distribution of such animals. Bank staff were in agreement, though
it is unclear why Dama cattle, a local breed, were not used.
Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture
29.   The project had considerable success in improving the capacity and effectiveness of the
MOA. The urgent need for reorganizing the MOA had been stressed by the Bank for several
years. During preparation of ADP II in 1982, a set of recommendations was drawn up including
proposals to decentralize authority within the Ministry and to unify the extension services. The
Appraisal Report in 1984 noted that general agreement had been reached on a substantial
reorganization which would include an improved chain of command to the Permanent Secretary,
decentralization, and a unified and smaller extension system.
30.   The project Mid-Term Review Mission (October 1986) recommended that the Ministry
be reorganized along the lines of a consultant's report (Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.)
financed by ODA. Based on this report's recommendations, the Ministry's operations were
streamlined, unnecessary departments (such as mechanical services) were shed and privatized,
and others performing complementary functions merged (such as the external aids unit which was
merged with the Department of Agricultural Services (DAS) which enabled the unit to make more
effective use of DAS logistical support). Two new departments were set up: the Departments of
Agricultural Services and Agricultural Research resulting from the dismantling of the former
Departments of Agriculture and Crop Protection. The Soil and Water Management Unit and the
Irrigation and Swamp Reclamation Unit were transferred to DAS; a Personnel and Training Unit
was established and attached to the Administration Unit of DAS; and the agricultural curriculum
of the Gambia College was expanded to include livestock, communication, cooperative
development and other activities affecting farming functions.
31.   The Italian-funded Technical Assistant (Manpower Specialist) was helpful in the
reorganization of MOA. Based on the ODA-funded study of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.,
they drew up job descriptions for almost all cadre staff, formulated the new organizational
structure and helped set it up. Both were appreciated by Government.
32.   In addition, a Program Based Budgeting System (PBS) was introduced into the MOA.
A PBS unit was established in MOA, and in collaboration with the US AID-funded Gambian
Agricultural Research Development (GARD) and Management Development Institute, training
programs were worked out for involved staff. The Ministry's budgets have been in a PBS format
since fiscal year 1990/91. A policy for MOA's computing needs was also developed covering
microcomputer purchasing, training and operations, and appropriate staff were trained in the use
of computer. As a result, the MOA financial staff are among the most computer-literate in the
Government. This is particularly true of DAR and DOP staff.
33.   The project also made considerable contribution in up-grading the skills of MOA staff.
Some 72 staff were sent for formal training ranging from agricultural extension to crop science
to financial management. The longest training was 4 years for the financial controller (Table 10
in Part III).



- 10 -
34.   In the process of streamlining the Ministry, a retrenchment program resulted in the
elimination of 1,221 positions at considerable budget savings: as of June 30, 1984, the total
number of established posts2/ was 2,333 at a total cost of Dal 9.343m or Dal 37.1m in 1993
prices, while by June 30, 1993 the number of posts was 1,112 at a total cost of Dal 13.560m -
or around one-third of the total salary costs at the beginning of the project in real terms.
Agricultural Extension
35.   In The Gambia, on-farm crop yields per unit area are generally low due to poor soils,
and low and irregular rainfall. In addition, potential yields are not achieved because of low levels
of inputs and weak management practices. As a contribution to improving yields, the Training
and Visit (T&V) extension system was introduced through the project and executed by the
Department of Agricultural Services (DAS). Under the project plan, the extension services for
rainfed crops were to be merged (a condition of project effectiveness) and a unified extension
service established focusing on continuous training of extension staff and farmers, regular and
fixed visits of extension staff to farmers, time-bound field work in association with farmers, the
professionalism of extension workers, and strong linkages with research.
36.   In practice, the introduction of the T&V extension system into The Gambia had mixed
results. By the end of the project, double the planned 10,500 farm families in all 6 Divisions
were in contact with extension. A cadre of VEWs was established in the field with some logistical
support in terms of vehicles, fuel and staff quarters. Training of these workers was arranged
through bi-monthly evaluation and planning workshops and this was facilitated by Training
Officers (TOs) and Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) who were posted in each of the 6 Divisions.
Over the project period, more than 60 workshops were held for extension staff, with attendance
amounting to an approximate total of 3,500 staff days. However, the low technical quality of
extension staff was a serious problem. It was especially acute among SMSs (who were seldom
trained above Certificate level) and extension managers, and this adversely affected both the
supervision and quality of training provided to VEWs. To address this problem, Government and
the Bank agreed on minimum educational qualifications for extension staff. These were a diploma
in agriculture for District Extension Supervisors (DESs), a B.S. degree in agriculture for TOs
and SMSs, and at least a Certificate in Agriculture for VEWs. While it was not possible to fully
achieve these minimum levels during the project, a training program for extension staff was
initiated. The project funded the training in The Gambia and overseas of 65 extension staff in the
MOA (Part III Table 10). Motivation was improved by introducing annual awards and
international training and visits for the best-performing staff.
37.   While an adequate number of VEWs were recruited and posted to the field, many left to
take up employment with NGOs or were transferred to better-paying autonomous projects (mostly
commodity promotion programs). As a result, the limited number remaining could not perform
adequately3/. The quality of on-farm demonstrations was so poor that some results were
inferior to the local practices followed by farmers. In hindsight, project design should have
2/ Excluding project employees of enclave projects such as Jahally Patchar, ITC, Cotton
Project, etc.
2/ In 1986 there were a total of 146 VEWs compared to 84 in 1989; the corresponding
VEW:farmer ratios were, on average, 1:370 and 1:605.



- 11 -
provided more basic training and special skills for extension staff through a pre-implementation
phase.
38.    During the cropping season, fortnightly training of contact farmer (male and female)
groups was conducted, though irregularly. Farmer training was by means of demonstrations and
trials in the farmers' fields, visits of farmers to the District Extension Centers and Seed
Multiplication Farms, and off-season training. Farmer training focussed on selected "impact
points" related to critical production constraints. Agricultural programs were broadcast over The
Gambia Radio, and publicity bill boards and video films of improved agricultural practices were
shown to farmers.
39.    Besides the low numbers and poor quality of VEWs, the quality of farmer training by the
was weakened by several other factors. First, despite adequate provision in the project, VEWs
had poor logistical support and their mobility was hampered by lack fuel and poor maintenance
of vehicles. Second, supervision by management was weak. Third, the selection of farmer groups
was problematic; they sometimes comprised whole villages. Finally, the performance of many
senior staff in the Agricultural Communication Unit was often mediocre.
40.    The expectation that the T&V system of extension would cover all crops grown in The
Gambia did not materialize. During project implementation, the extension activities for cotton and
Jahally Patchar rice project, which were funded by other donors, were not integrated into the
national system. This resulted in an inefficient use of scarce human capital (extension staff),
conflicting advice to farmers by extension agents from the different projects, and poor staff
morale because of differing fringe benefits offered by the projects.
41.    Extension activities were also weakened by poor linkages between research and extension.
This weakness was due to several reasons. First, because of the poor qualifications and
experience of extension staff described above, the researchers found it difficult to effectively
interact with them. Second, bi-monthly meetings between research and extension staff ceased to
take place early in the project, and few joint research-extension trials were undertaken. Third,
the restructuring of the Research and Agricultural Services into two independent departments
resulted in bureaucratic impediments to interaction between the staff of these two departments.
42.    Extension staff ignored certain important technical messages. In particular, soil and water
conservation practices and the use of compost were critical for maintaining and improving soil
productivity, but not included. In addition, livestock extension was excluded from the project
until the last year although livestock and cropping activities are both integral to farm families.
43.    Based on the Bank's supervision report of March/April 1990, the Department of Planning
undertook a thorough impact evaluation of the extension component. This report4/ highlighted
the need for a better understanding among extension staff of the T&V system, for more and better
training of extension staff, and for improving the logistical problems - particularly transport -
facing field-level staff. While some of these shortcomings were addressed during the remaining
years of this project, they are to be more comprehensively tackled in the subsequent IDA-financed
Agricultural Services Project.
4/ An Evaluation of the Training and Visit System of Extension, by Ken Johm, Omar Sonko,
and Allen Sendhore, Banjul, July 1990



- 12 -
44.    Despite these shortcomings, extension staff successfully persuaded farmers to adopt
several new technology messages. The aforesaid evaluation report also showed that, as a result
of the extension advice, a high percentage of farmers have adopted recommended practices on
plant spacing (50%), seed rate (45-50%) and thinning (45%). The low adoption of recommended
fertilizers was due largely to problems of availability of fertilizer and difficulties in credit
supply/l.
Agricultural Research
45.    One of the project components was to strengthen the research capacity at the Agricultural
Research Station located at Sapu and improve the links with other national agricultural research
institutes and the international agricultural research centers. The overall aim was to foster fruitful
cooperation with international and national research centers working in the sub-region, develop
a capacity to conduct off-station trials and identify adapted crop varieties. In consultation with
IDA in 1987, the Government transferred these activities to the USAID-funded Gambian
Agricultural Research and Diversification (GARD) project, which was nonexistent at the time of
appraisal. This transfer of responsibilities was appropriate since the GARD project dealt
comprehensively with all aspects of agricultural research. ADP II limited its support for
agricultural research to improving the physical structure of the research station at Sapu.
46.    The GARD project achieved considerable success in achieving the research goals set out
in the SAR of ADP II. It fostered Gambian research collaboration with international research
centers6/. It strengthened the activities on on-farm trials of results emerging from research
stations and identified a number of adapted varieties of groundnuts, maize, sorghum and millet.
It is likely, however, that the transfer of the research component of ADP II to the GARD project
contributed to the weak linkage between research and extension in The Gambia, referred to in
paragraph 41.
Seed Multiplication
47.    Another project component was to strengthen the national seed multiplication program
so that high quality seeds would be available to farmers as needed. This was not, however,
achieved. The Seed Technology Unit (STU) at Sapu, operating under the Agricultural Research
Directorate, was responsible for organizing seed multiplication programs under the project. The
STU was organized into four sections: administration, quality control, production and
processing/marketing. All the sections functioned during the project period.
48.    During the project period, the STU  initiated the foundation seed multiplication of
improved cultivars of groundnuts, rice, maize, sorghum and millet. This was helped by an
51 The evaluation report of 1986 (see footnote 4) clearly indicated that the real problem for fertilizer
use was its non-availability; when fertilizer was available but credit was not, farmers used all possible
means to obtain it since they were aware of its positive effects on yield, especially on groundnuts.
b/For example, with the West African Rice Development Authority (WARDA) for rice, with
the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (OITA) for cassava, with the International
Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) for sorghum, millet and
groundnuts and with the Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development (SAFGRAD) for
maize and cowpea.



- 13 -
assured water supply, funded under the project, for irrigating the foundation seed production
fields of rice, groundnuts and maize at Sapu. The project also supported the production of
certified seeds from these foundation seeds, though the mechanism by which these foundation
seeds would be multiplied into certified seed was not clearly defined during appraisal. The
Government decided to adopt a proposal of NSC to contract NGOs to execute the certified seed
multiplication program in collaboration with farmers. This had the advantage of drawing on the
extensive rural network of NGOs, enabling farmers in different parts of the country to be part
of the program.
49.   This arrangement with NGOs progressed well for a few years, after which they would
no longer continue with this activity. The NGOs involved became aware of the inherent riskiness
of certified seed multiplication due to irregularity of rainfall and consequently, wide fluctuations
in the demand for seed. Another problem was that the supply of foundation seed from Sapu was
inadequate and unreliable, due largely to Sapu's weak management and its limited human and
physical resources. The NGOs, therefore, pulled out of the program, causing considerable
disruption to the seed supply in the country.
50.   A new decentralized seed production and distribution system was subsequently set up in
1992 whereby foundation seeds of different crops are produced by the STU at Sapu and supplied
to the District Extension Supervisors (DESs) in all the 36 districts. Under this arrangement, the
DESs produce certified seeds in collaboration with farmers (seed growers) and these seeds are
then supplied to farmers for cultivation. Since the crop varieties used are non-hybrid whereby the
need for fresh seeds is not mandatory every year, this decentralized arrangement involving the
extension agents and the seed-growers/farmers has the potential to work well. However, this new
system has just started and will need time to be fully established.
51.   In addition, the STU has trained a large number of farmers in seed multiplication
procedures through on-farm cooperative activities and organized visits of the farmers to the seed
multiplication centers.
The Credit Component
52.   The project included a major credit component intended to strengthen GCU and the
Cooperative Primary Marketing Societies (CPMS) with approximately US$ 4.2 million made
availatle for lending in the form of the farm machinery, groundnuts for seeds, crop chemicals,
and fertilizer. Recognition of the problems of operating a viable rural credit scheme were made
clear in the SAR, especially in the light of the bad experience under RDP. As a result, policies
and procedures concerning GCU's operations were stipulated, and lending criteria developed. To
put in place appropriate policies and conditions of lending for agricultural production loans, an
expatriate credit specialist was attached to GCU is 1982 under the project's PPF arrangement.
He was later replaced by another expatriate credit advisor. In addition, a specialized agricultural
credit unit was established, and unlike the arrangements under RDP, the GCU credit unit was to
be responsible for all aspects of loan management from processing applications to disbursement
and recovery.
53.   The standard modality of loan disbursement was that GCU made loans to the CPMSs and
these were on-lent to individual members. Lending decisions at the CPMS level were made by
their Executive Committees under the supervision, advice and control of the GCU field staff.
Recovery was effected by cash deductions from the proceeds of crops at the CPMS and these



- 14 -
were, in turn, sent to GCU. A total number of 86 CPMS received credit each year and records
indicate that in certain seasons up to 50,000 individual members benefitted from loans.
54.   Loan management and recovery rates improved under these arrangements, but were still
unacceptably low given the size and cost of the credit staff unit (12 staff at headquarters and 32
in the field), all of whom had motor transport. ADP II project financing agreements called for
a discontinuation of lending to those CPMS which failed to achieve a repayment rate of 85% on
the previous season's advances, but this condition was never applied by GCU. In 1985, a
particular poor year, some CPMS paid less than 8% of current loans but, due to political
intervention, all CPMSs received new loans in the ensuing season.
55.    GCU's inability to implement its credit program efficiently and independently induced
the World Bank to critically evaluate GCU's performance in 1986. The mid-term review of the
project (October 1986) was extremely critical of the lack of financial discipline of GCU, noting
that "Credit recovery over the last years has been notoriously low and the situation may further
deteriorate." It recommended that "without a fundamental reform of the credit delivery system
and unless credit discipline is established -- even at the cost of little input credit during several
years, the viability of GCU, and indeed of the whole cooperative movement would be
compromised". An in-depth review of GCU, undertaken by the Bank from November 1986 to
April 1987, confirmed the problem of poor management of GCU and political intervention.
However, the report concluded that, despite GCU's poor track record in managing institutional
credit for small-scale farmers, there was little alternative to continuing with GCU if Government
wished to continue to extend credit to farmers. No merit was seen in suspending financing this
component, or in setting up another institution or using the banking sector. It was also noted that
no other institution would immediately be able to disburse and recover credit on a national scale
without relying on the services and infrastructure of GCU and its affiliated societies.
56.   The report proposed reforms which consisted of two separate but complementary
strategies. The first was to upgrade the GCU Credit Department by redefining operating policies
and procedures, enhancing management systems and improving the quality of staff through better
selection, training and supervision. The second strategy was to develop a system of lending based
upon village level (branch) loan groups in order "to incorporate local knowledge and decision-
making capacities into the management of credit at the farm level" (Inception Report of the credit
manager, 1987). The recommendations, adopted in full by Government and the World Bank,
specified a 5-year period for full implementation of the village branch system in all 86 CPMS,
and a 3-year period to complete the institutional reforms within GCU, including the training of
a suitable Gambian counterpart as credit manager.
57.   This reform program was not adopted until the arrival of an expatriate Credit Manager
in April 1988. The Government paid off Dal 53 million of GCU's debt to The Gambia Produce
Marketing Board (GPMB), and withdrew further support to the GCU. Thus, it bailed out GCU
from its past debt obligations and reorganized it as a fully privatized cooperative. Significant
changes were made in GCU, especially in the credit unit, and measures were undertaken to run
a cost-efficient viable program. These measures included a reduction in operating costs7/
7/    GCU's operating costs averaged about 15% of the value of its loan portfolio, with
staff and transport costs accounting for 60% of expenditures. As the credit manager noted:
"This is only achievable because all funds for lending are available at concessionary rates and
carry no charges and consequently the cost of money does not add to the operating costs."



- 15 -
through a cut-back in staff from 178 to 132, and the introduction of a Village Branch lending
system on a pilot scheme basis in 1988/89. Five CPMS were selected based on previous high loan
recovery rates and loan committees were established in 66 village branches. In 1988 the credit
manager also began upgrading GCU's capacity: new staff were appointed, new policies and
procedures put in place and training programs established.
58.   However, during 1987/88 and 1988/89 loans were made to all 86 CPMS regardless of
previous season's repayment performance. As noted by the Credit Manager, this reflected "the
usual political pressures" 8/. In 1988/89, the loan recovery rate declined to 48 %, due to:
(a) The forced closure by the Department of Cooperation of 32 non-viable CPMS out
of a total of 86 after loans had been disbursed but before the crop marketing and
loan recovery period. This was a condition of SAL II. As a result of this closure,
the CPMS members had no incentive to pay back that season's loans, which were
thus added to GCU's outstanding debt.
(b) A fall in the producer price of groundnuts from Dal 1,500 per ton in 1987/88 to Dal
1,100 per ton in 1988/89, creating a huge price differential with Senegal where the
price equated Dal 1,800 per ton. This resulted in much cross-border trade. GCU's
market share of the crop fell to 15,500 tons from 51,300 tons in 1987/88 and the
turnover from produce trading fell to Dal 18 million from Dal 100 million in
1986/87.
59.   As a result of efforts in 1989 to increase the number of CPMS that would qualify for the
Village Branch lending program, 25 CPMS met the qualification of having a repayment level at
an average of over 90% over the two previous seasons. Despite a well-publicized decision by
GCU to extend loans only to these CPMS, continued political interference eroded GCU viability
and in 1993 three top officials from GCU were placed on administrative leave and an independent
accounting firm was hired to audit GCU. This audit report was submitted to Government in
December 1993, but has not been made public nor made available to the World Bank, despite
requests.
60.   The present situation is that Dal 38.4 million (around US$4 million) of ADP II funds
transferred to GCU over the project period (1985-93), mostly for on-lending to farmers, is
unaccounted for. None has been repaid to Government. Farmers did benefit from the provision
of inputs, though data on how many and how much inputs are unavailable. A revolving fund, set
up for repayments from farmers, has not functioned. It apparently has no balance (GCU have
been unable to provide details). It is fair to say that extremely poor management and political
interference combined to bankrupt GCU. Perhaps most serious is that farmers' confidence in the
cooperative system has been badly shaken, and their experience with this credit system has not
encouraged financial discipline.
("Lending to Small Scale Farmers: the Experience of GCU," R. Clarke, October 1989
(mimeo))
a/    "Lending to Small Scale Farmers: the Experience of GCU," R. Clark, October 1989
(mimeo)



- 16 -
61.   The question must be asked as to whether the Bank should have been tougher? The time
between the strong warnings in the Mid-term Report (in October 1986) and the continued lack
of financial discipline in 1992 begs the question of why the critical reports of supervision
missions had not resulted in more decisive and firm action. It was not until the second extension
of ADP II that project funding to GCU for credit activities was stopped. In retrospect, the best
option may have been to halt all ADP funding of GCU immediately and resume only after there
was clear evidence of improved financial discipline.
62.   Given GCU's past record, it would have been advisable to have more control of GCU's
activities by MOA. There was, in fact, no control mechanism in place to ensure compliance of
GCU; the arrangement with the Department of Cooperation proved ineffective since this
Department had no leverage. If the Deputy PS for Programs, for example, had been a signatory
to the revolving fund, with full authority to review GCU accounts and advise the PS MOA on
any problems, then these difficulties could have been avoided.
63.   Stronger Government action would also have been appropriate. GCU has acted contrary
to the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (SLA) in at least two matters. First, GCU had a Management Committee, comprising
of representatives from the 7 administrative areas, the Permanent Secretaries of MOA, the Chief
Executive Officer of the National Investment Board and the Director of the Department of
Cooperation in the MOA. However, they met irregularly, not all members were allowed to
participate and information on GCU activities was restricted to a few people. Secondly, there
was a problem with audits. The audits from 1986/87 to 1988/89 were all qualified, and from
1989/90 to 1992/93 were incomplete. As a result, no audit certificates were issued from 1986/87
to the present day. This is illegal both within the scope of the SLA and the DCA of the Project
and also the Gambia Finance and Audit Act and the Cooperation Act; it should have been a cause
of serious concern to both Government and the Bank, and is in violation of Section 8 (c) of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Moreover, by not paying into the revolving loan fund all
repayments of credit made to the primary societies, GCU is also violating Section 7 (a) of the
SLA.
Improved Performance of Rainfed Crops
64.   The project had mixed success in achieving the sectoral targets set forth in the SAR. In
terms of farm households benefitting from the project, the SAR expected that benefits would be
extended to 10,500 farm households. In fact, the project exceeded this target and, as of 1992,
extension was being delivered to 20,700 farm households. The production and yield targets given
in the SAR were generally too optimistic as they were based on production and yield data from
progressive farmers' fields which comprised a very small proportion (less than 1 %) of Gambian
farmers. At full development of ADP II, the expected incremental annual production and yield
(as given in the SAR) and the actual are as follows:
65.   The production of groundnuts increased impressively over the first 5 years of the project,
with total output in 1989/90 30% more than that of 1984/85 (Part III Table 6). This increase was
due to a 31 % improvement in yield over this period. Thereafter, however, both area harvested
and yield declined, resulting in a sharp drop in production to below the pre-project level. To
some extent this oscillation can be attributed to rainfall, which was below normal in 1990/91 and
1992/93, but more important were fluctuations in the groundnut price which increased sharply
in nominal terms 1985/86 and 1986/87, and declined in the subsequent two years.



- 17 -
66.   Regarding other crops, the picture is mixed. After an initial increase, maize output
declined to 13,630 tons in 1990/91, rebounding in the last two years of the project when
production increased to 20,000 and 18,300 tons, respectively. Yield fluctuated widely over the
project period, but overall there was little improvement, the increased output being attributable
to expanded acreage. Similarly, there was little improvement in the yield of either early or late
millet during the project period, though production was significantly more than that expected in
the SAR due to a large increase in harvested area of early millet (peaking in 1991/92 at 46,000
ha. compared to 14,100 ha. before the project). Sorghum production grew steadily from 1986/87
following a sharp decline in 1985/86, but remained below that anticipated in the SAR. Yield
remained stagnant during the project period. Regarding rice, data are available for swamp rice
only, and do not include bottomland and mangrove rice. The SAR, however, includes all three
types of rice in the projections, so the actual data cannot be directly compared to those in the
SAR. There was little improvement in yield or production of swamp rice over the project period.
Finally, cotton production and yield varied widely over the years of the project, and were below
the expectations of the SAR.
67.   In summary, there was little observable improvement in crop performance over the
project period. But this is hardly unexpected. Performance depends on many interrelated factors
other than those supported by the project, and the most important are exogenous such as rainfall
(there were three years of below-average rainfall over the project), pests and world market prices.
It was unrealistic to expect the institutional changes supported by the project - such as setting up
the T&V extension system - to exert a direct benefit on agricultural output and yield over the
time span of the project. More generally, however, it was misleading for the SAR to give such
specific expected results from the project given the uncertainties surrounding agricultural
performance.
68.   The estimation of the economic rate of return (ERR) was similarly short-sighted. The
SAR estimated that the project would have an ERR of 23%. It based this calculation on farm
budget models, and on the expected output benefits described above. Using the same methodology
as in the SAR and the actual output data, the ERR has been re-estimated as 2% (Part III Table
6, pg.2). However, it must be emphasized that these results have many shortcomings. For this
kind of project the ERR is a meaningless tool because of the many factors affecting agricultural
performance, and the lack of any clear relationship between the project investments and
agricultural output. This measure also ignores the use of animal traction and its impact on labor
productivity, and the effect of area expansion on output, a key factor, for example, behind the
increased early millet output.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
69.   The project had mixed success in setting up sustainable improvements in the agricultural
support services. The progress regarding the institutional development, particularly the MOA,
and the extension and research services has been considerable and is likely to be sustained.
Developments regarding credit and input supply (both fertilizer and seeds) have been much less
successful and sustainable systems remain to be developed.
70.   Ministry or Agriculture: One of the more successful and sustainable features of ADP
II was the reorganization and streamlining of the MOA and the upgrading of MOA staff skills
in management, computer literacy, financial management, and extension. This reorganization
resulted in considerable savings in the Ministry's annual operating budget as well as improving
the functioning of the Ministry. The upgrading of skills of the staff is continuing to pay dividends



- 18 -
not only in the running of the new IDA credit Agricultural Services Project, but also in terms of
the level of policy analysis, computer skills, and financial analysis.
71.    Extension: The expectation to set up a national extension system during the time span
of the project was unrealistically high. Given that the T&V system was new and not well
understood by agents nor farmers, and that the academic and skill levels of extension staff were
low, establishing a functioning national extension system during the course of the project is an
achievement. The T&V system is generally well-understood by extension staff and farmers, and
the number of farm families in contact with extension far exceeds that expected in the SAR.
Female farmers are particularly well served, comprising around 60% of all farmers in contact
with extension. Improvements have also been made in the levels of education and training of
extension staff. With continued support by government and the recently-approved Agricultural
Services Project, improvements in the extension service are expected to be sustained.
72.    Research:   Since the ongoing USAID-funded GARD  project was strengthening
agricultural research capacity, the project wisely decided not to duplicate efforts and instead
funding only infrastructure. The GARD project came to an end in 1992, and the research
activities are being continued by Government but in the new institutional structure. The recently
approved IDA-financed Agricultural Services Project is timely in that it continues to support
strengthening the country's research activities and paves the way for a sustainable research
capacity.
73.   Input Supply: The project did little to establish a sustainable system for the supply of
either seeds or fertilizer. The strategy for seed supply supported by the project did not work. The
revised approach of foundation seed being multiplied under the direct supervision and control of
the STU, and the decentralized system of the multiplication and supply of certified seeds through
the participation of District Extension Supervisors (DESs) and farmers appears, in principle,
satisfactory, but will need time to be tested.
74.    With regard to fertilizer, during the project period fertilizer subsidies were eliminated,
but no satisfactory importation and distribution system was set up. This continues to be a problem
for The Gambia. Chemical fertilizer is not domestically-produced and, in the past, several
importation procedures have been followed resulting in a complex situation. A clear policy
statement is needed from Government on fertilizer importation. The policy presently under
consideration, to involve private importers, has strong merits. In particular, this should encourage
importers to negotiate lower prices from producers and transporters, which, in turn, would lower
unit import costs. However, the importers must have an effective and efficient retail network in
The Gambia. If this policy is accepted by Government and the necessary steps are taken to create
a conducive environment for the private entrepreneurs, then a sustainable fertilizer supply system
is possible.
75. Credit: The project failed to set up a viable agricultural credit system. There was some
strengthening of the cooperatives under the Village-branch pending program, which continues to
function, but the legacy of GCU is not good: farmers are distrustful of its activities and the
country presently faces a crisis in financing this year's groundnut crop.



- 19 -
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
76.   Project preparation and appraisal were lengthy processes due largely to the lack of a clear
conception of the scope of the project and the determination to fully involve Government at all
stages. It was wise to scale down the initial size of the project both in amount and components,
though the exclusion of livestock was unwise. With the important exception of GCU, management
of the project generally went well. In view of the experience with the provision of credit through
GCU under RDP, it would have been advisable not to have included a similar credit component
in ADP II. The Bank was cautious in the design of this component, providing training for GCU
staff and extensive technical assistance. The basic problem, however, was the continuation of
political interference in the management of GCU and the Department of Cooperation in MOA.
Supervision missions, including the mid-term review, were explicit and emphatic in their criticism
of GCU's management, yet project funds continued to be channelled to GCU's credit activities
until the second extension of the project's closing date.
77.   The problems regarding the supply of fertilizer from Italy were beyond the Bank's
control, though in the design of the project attention should have been given to setting up a viable
fertilizer distribution system. On the positive side, the design and supervision of the extension
component was generally satisfactory though the introduction of the T&V system in a phased
manner giving full consideration to the training needs of the extension staff would have been
preferable.
RI. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
78.   The participation of the borrower in the preparation and design of ADP II was good. As
a result, there was a strong sense of ownership of the project among MOA staff throughout the
project, and project progress reports were provided on a regular basis. The conditions of
effectiveness were met on time and the large number of covenants of the credit agreement were
respected (Part III Table 7). The Government rightly abandoned the Project Working Committee
after it was found to be unnecessary (being superfluous and having the same membership as the
Project Coordinating Committee).
79.   Difficulties encountered with the credit component were largely beyond the control of the
Project Coordinating Committee, but stronger action by senior management of the Ministry of
Agriculture to improve the financial management of GCU would have been appropriate. This
is acknowledged in the borrower's contribution to the PCR (Part II). The Government could also
have ensured a more timely availability of counterpart funds which periodically disrupted project
implementation. Regarding the extension service, it would have been helpful if Government had
insisted on uniform benefits and incentives among the extension staff of the various projects. A
more careful monitoring of the quality of extension would also have been advisable. Government
should have made more effort to foster stronger linkages between the research and extension
departments after their separation. And finally, since the staff managing the seeds multiplication
program lacked experience, the program would have benefitted from a more careful selection and
training of these staff.



- 20 -
I. LESSONS LEARNT
80.    The extensive participation of Government in project conception and design fostered a
strong sense of ownership and commitment, especially among those managing the project.
However, a more clearly defined scope of the project would have reduced the lengthy preparation
time. In fact, much of the four years of preparation time was spent defining the project in terms
of components. The process of having 15 working groups dealing with that many sub-sectors
generated more proposals for project components than could be accommodated, and, as a result,
producing the preparation report took longer than expected.
81.   The SAR proposed an extraordinarily complex administrative structure to administer the
project. Two new tiers were added: the Project Coordinating Working Committee at head office
level, and the Divisional Coordinating Committee at the field level. While these were created,
they did not function from the outset, being excessively bureaucratic and superfluous. However,
having a deputy permanent secretary who was responsible for all agricultural programs and
projects as the project coordinator helped integrate the project into the sector as a whole. This
integration of the project into the ministerial services was very successful and should be routinely
adopted.
82.   The project used 21.75 years of technical assistance. This was excessive, and its
effectiveness varied widely.
83.    The project expected too much too soon given the country's institutional weaknesses (such
as GCU) and human capital needs (such as the low level of education and training of the
extension agents). More time should have been given to strengthening both, and T&V extension
system could have been introduced more effectively if time had been taken to adequately train
the agents. Considerable training was provided to agents over the course of the project and
minimum education levels established but were not fully enforced during the project. However,
these efforts should provide a good basis for the subsequent Agricultural Services Project.
Similarly, no credit should have been channelled through GCU until there was clear evidence of
financial discipline.
84.    ADP II focussed excessively on rainfed crops - particularly groundnut production and
yield. In the design of the project, more emphasis should have been given to crop and livestock
diversification, which are essential for Gambia's sustainable agricultural development. More
explicit support, especially through research and extension, should have been given to such crop
diversification as horticultural crops and irrigated agriculture, and to livestock production.
85.    While it made sense to simplify the project, omitting livestock, a key feature of Gambian
agriculture, was to the detriment of both the livestock extension services and the
comprehensiveness of the extension messages given to farmers.
86.    The SAR was unrealistically specific in the amount of inputs the project was expected to
finance (para 12). Production and yield targets given in the SAR were overly optimistic, based
as they were on the optimum application of these inputs. The estimation of an economic rate of
return (ERR) involved lengthy and detailed calculations (there are two working papers on file
detailing the complex and detailed calculations involved). Moreover, for this kind of project, the
ERR is a meaningless tool because of the many factors affecting agricultural performance and the
lack of any clear relationship between project investments and agricultural performance.



- 21 -
87.   The decision that the distribution and sale of inputs would continue to be the
responsibility of the cooperative system as it functioned in The Gambia was misguided. The
cooperative structure was not responsive to farmers' needs, consisting mostly of government
employees and few elected officials. It lacked, therefore, accountability, and was vulnerable to
political interference. Indeed, no credit component should have been included, given the dismal
financial record and continued financial disarray of GCU, and particularly, the inability of other
Government agencies to keep political interference at bay. In both project preparation and during
supervision, effort was made to keep GCU's operations within agreed guidelines, but, in the end,
this proved impossible. Indeed, even now, in preparing this PCR, staff have been unable to
obtain satisfactory records of ADP II financing of GCU's activities. The financing of GCU
activities through the project was eventually terminated at the second extension of the project, but
this should have been done earlier.
88.    The project failed to develop a reliable supply of inputs at reasonable unit cost. The
arrangement with the Seed Multiplication Unit did not work, and Gambian farmers are still
without any sustainable seed multiplication arrangement. Regarding fertilizer, the arrangement
with the Italian Government did not serve Gambian farmers well. Imports were irregular and their
unit cost high. Allowing fertilizer to be procured under bilateral deals can be extremely harmful
to the recipient country since it generally entails higher prices, and having a monopoly supplier
can result in erratic deliveries; in both cases, the farmer pays heavily and the arrangements are
expensive for the country. Under ADP II, no viable importation and distribution system was set
in place, and a clear and transparent policy on fertilizer importation is still needed.
89.    Donors should have made stronger efforts to coordinate their compensation to rural
development staff. Differences in pay and/or fringe benefits between organizations and donors
involved in rural development in The Gambia resulted in many of the better extension staff
leaving for other projects where the pay was better.
90.    Regarding agricultural research, USAID involvement through the GARD project was
successful, so the decision to eliminate this component from ADP II was not only appropriate but
a good example of exercising flexibility during project implementation. However in such a small
country as The Gambia, the separation of research from extension activities made no sense. Yet
over the course of the project, research and was counterproductive as it weakened crucial linkages
and inflated government bureaucracy.



- 22 -
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
94.        The design of the Second Agricultural Development Project (ADPII) was
basically based on the experience of its predecessor the Rural Development Project (RDP). It
was believed that the RDP was too large, complicated and not within the managerial capacity
of Government hence an expatriate Project Manager had to be recruited. This called for a
successor project with a much simpler design and fewer components. Unfortunately this did
not include any livestock component, a key sub-sector.
95.   The Seeds Component which was recommended in the project document was later
replaced by Government's own proposal following the Duncan Burgthon Report.
96.   The time lapse between the project design and implementation was quite long. As
such the ideas and assumption incorporated at the design stage were therefore overtaken by
events. For an example, the implementation of the Cotton Development Project (CDP) had
started, a project which espoused a different extension system to the Training and Visit system
advocated by the ADPII. Also, the Gambian Agricultural Research Diversification Project
(GARD) had come on stream and taken over the research component of the project. The
World Bank should have exerted some pressure on the Caisse Centrale of France, the
financiers of the Cotton Development Project, to adopt a unified system of extension and as
much as possible integrate their extension service into the mainstream service of the Ministry
of Agriculture, since Government was in a weaker position to do so. The same applied to
other enclave projects such as the Rice Development Project (African Development Band
financed) and the Jahally Parcharr Smallholder Project (AFDB and IFAD financed).
97.   During the evolution of the project, Government because of budgetary constraints
could not come up with the financial support for the consolidation of RDP to ensure a smooth
transfer to the ADPII.
98.   During the implementation phase the Government played its role quite effectively. All
the conditions of effectiveness were met on time and the covenants of the credit agreement
respected. The project was audited on a timely basis. The Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC) which was formed could not meet regularly as foreseen during the project formulation
stage. The Project Working Committee (PWC) which was envisaged in the project document
was disbanded, mainly because it was cumbersome and its functions overlapped with that of
the PCC, since both the PCC and the PWC had the same membership. The PWC was
therefore considered superfluous. The Divisional Coordinating Committee (DCC) never took
off, on second thought was determined not to be very useful.
99.   Government should have taken a more pro-active stand on the issue of the extension
service by ensuring that all the various projects within the country had their extension units
and staff integrated into the mainstream service. This would have among others ensured some
sort of uniform incentives and work practices across the board, thereby stemming the staff
attrition which has been witnessed in the Government service.



- 23 -
100.  The lack of a comprehensive policy on the mobility of extension staff, with existing
allowances (including overnight allowances) which were considered inadequate, served as a
demotivating factor to the staff.
101.  During the life of ADPII a relatively substantial amount of aid flowed into the
agricultural sector, but unfortunately Government did not coordinate this aid efficiently
enough to maximize the synergy that could have been realized between ADPII and the other
interventions.
102.  There was also a failure on Government's part in fulfilling its financial obligation to
the project in terms of counterpart funding on a timely basis as well as in terms of quantity.
This caused undue delays in the implementation of some of the time-bound activities of the
sector.
103.  Government was slow in recognizing the institutional weaknesses of the Gambia
Cooperative Union (GCU). Although the ADPII to a very large extent strengthened the
institutional capacity of the Credit Department of the union, this should have been done in
tandem with the strengthening of the other departments too. This inadequacy showed up in
the low loan recoveries.
104.  The necessary linkage between the extension service and the credit system evolved
rather slowly to ensure the effective and efficient use of credit on the technologies which were
being promoted by the extension service.
105.  Although the linkage between the Departments of Agricultural Services and
Agricultural Research existed it was slow in bearing fruit. The linkage should have been
instituted right in the early stages of the project.
106.  The relationship that existed between the Bank and the Government was very cordial.
The Bank was critical and frank on the issues, and showed a lot of interest in the success of
the project. The Bank communicated effectively with Government, and correspondence was
promptly attended to. The harmonious interactions between the Bank and the Government
can be attributed to the mutual trust and respect that existed between both parties.
107.  The performance of the co-financiers during the evolution and implementation of the
project can be said to good. IFAD in most instances jointly supervised the project with the
Bank using in-house personnel. There were few occasions where they were represented by an
external consultant. The Italian Government was represented by its Embassy in Dakar,
Senegal. By and large the co-financiers worked amicably with the Government, and their
comments made during the various supervision mission were treated with all the seriousness
they deserved.



- 24 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: IDA Credits Relevant to the Project
Credit No.      Fiscal       Purpose of
Project Title   Year of         Project          Status         Comments
Approval
Cr. 333-GM      FY73         To support       Closed 12/76
Agricultural                 irrigated rice
Development                  production in
the MacCarthy
Island Division
Cr. 644-GM      FY76         To develop       Closed 3/82      Development
Rural                        crop and                          activities
Development                  livestock                         started under
production in                    project could
three                            not be
administrative                   maintained due
divisions in                     to lack of
Western part of                  Government
The Gambia                       recurrent
funding. Also
problems with
compliance
with
covenants, and
project
organization
Cr. 2453-GM     FY93         To raise rural    Closing 6/99    Project
Agricultural                 incomes by                        effective
Services                     strengthening                     10/25/93
support services
in agricultural
extension and
research and
_________________  _____________   training



- 25 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
ITEM                                 DATE PLANNED  DATE ACTUAL
Identification (Executive Project
Summary)
Preparation                              04/00/78            10/05/80
Appraisal Mission                        10/00/82            10/00/82
Credit Negotiations                      03/26/84           03/26/84
Board Approval                           03/15/84            03/15/84
Credit Signature                         06/13/84            06/13/84
Credit Effectiveness                     09/11/84            11/07/84
Credit Closing                           06/30/91            06/30/93
| Credit Completion                        12/31/91           06/30/93



- 26 -
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS '000)
FY   Qtr.    Cum Estimate        Actual        Actual Cum.      Actual/Est. %
84    1                          546.7            546.7
2                          10.9            546.7
_____  3                          32.9             557.5
4                          78.6            590.4
85    1        1000.0            78.6             669.0            66.9
2        1200.0           143.9            812.9             67.7
3        1400.0           186.8            999.7             71.4
4        1600.0           378.0            1,377.7           86.1
86    1        1850.0            157.3           1,535.0           83.0
2        2100.0           438.5            1,973.6           94.0
3        2450.0           363.5            2,337.0           95.4
4        2800.0           160.8            2,497.8           89.2
87    1        3200.0            251.0           2,748.8           85.9
2        3600.0           359.1            3,108.0           97.1
3        4050.0           133.1            3,241.0           80.0
_____   4        4500.0           266.0            3,507.0           77.9
88    1        4950.0            208.1           3,715.1           75.1
2        5400.0            34.1            3,749.3           69.4
___=_   3       5850.0           189.0            3,938.2           67.3
4        6300.0           268.4            4,206.6           66.8
89    1        6700.0            179.1           4,385.8           65.5
___   2        7100.0            158.4           4,544.2            64.0
3        7450.0           100.5            4,644.6           62.3
4        7800.0           158.5            4,803.2           61.6
90    1        8100.0            222.9           5,026.1           62.1
2        8350.0            93.0            5,119.1           61.3
- 3        8600.0            54.9            5,174.1           60.2
___-_   4        8850.0           310.2            5,484.3           62.0
91    1        9000.0            125.4           5,609.7           62.3
2        9150.0           231.1            5,840.8           63.8
___   3        9300.0            178.7           6,019.5           64.7
_____   4        9400.0           197.6            6,217.2           66.1
92    1        9400.0             0.0            6,217.2           66.1
2        9400.0           243.5            6,460.7           68.7
3        9400.0            67.6            6,528.3           69.5
.__   4        9400.0            47.2            6,575.5           70.0
93    1        9400.0            30.0            6,605.5           70.3
3
Date of last disbursement: September 29, 1 993.



- 27 -
Table 4: Project Implementation
Indicators          Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Elimination of fertilizer   By end FY 1987/88                   Done
subsidy                                                                           l
Providing inputs to         Fertilizer: 6,650 tons  Fertilizer: 28,000 tons provided
farmers
Seednuts: 1239 tons    Seednuts: Information not
available
Oxenpairs: 990       Oxenpairs: No live animals
provided
Oxen packages: 3300     Oxen packages: Information not
available
Providing agricultural   Extension to be provided    Extension provided to 20,750
extension to farm       to 10,500 farm households  farm households
families
Reorganizing and         Total established posts in    Total established posts in
streamlining the Ministry   Ministry of Agriculture to   Ministry of Agriculture reduced
of Agriculture, with a   be reduced to 2,333        to 1,112
reduction in staff



- 28 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES                      ACTUAL
l __________________________     (Dalasis Million)     _       (US  S  000)        (US  $  000)
Local T Foreignj Total   Local J Foreign | Total
Crop and Farm Development     2.4      11.3     13.7     700     3200     3900      1148.65
Extension Training            2.4      8.9      11.3    700      2500     3200      3868.27
Agricultural Research         2.5      4.1      6.6      700     1200      1900     2374.24
Seed Multiplication Unit      1.8      3.2      5.0      500     900      1400      519.77
Cooperative Development       2.6      3.8      6.4      700     1100     1800      3357.99
Project Coordinating Unit     0.6      2.0      2.6      200      600      800      1466.46
Project Monitoring &
Evaluation Unit               0.6      1.1      1.7     200       300      500      508.62
Livestock Services             -        -        -        -        -        -        75.66
PPF                            -       2.3      2.3       -       700      700      225.99
Total Baseline Costs   12.9     36.7     49.6    3700    10500    14200    12545.65
Physical Contingencies    0.6    1.8      2.4     200      500      700         -
Price Contingencies    5.2       8.6      13.8    1500     2400     3900        -
Subtotal Project Costs       18.7      47.1     65.8    5400    13400    18800    13545.65
Recurrent National Fertilizer
Imports                        -       35.6     35.6      -      10200    10200   8919.81 1/
Total Project Costs          18.7      82.7    101.4   5400    23600    29000    22465.46
1/ Italian grant in kind: Fertilizer 28,000 tons valued at US$ 8,8622.01 and 5 FIAT lorries
valued at US$ 297.80.



- 29 -
Table 5 (cont.): Project Costs and Financing (p. 2)
B. Project Financing
I                    (in US $ 000)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES                ACTUAL
IDA                               US $ 9,400.0            US$ 6,254.7
(SDR 6,605)
IFAD                             US $ 5,000.0             US$ 3,846.6
(SDR 4,062)
Italian Government                US $ 9,500.0             US$ 8,760.1
Beneficiaries                       US $ 0.3             Not quantifiable
Government                        US $ 4,800.0            US$ 517.2
(Dal 3,966,187 2/
TOTAL                            US $ 29,000.0           US$ 18,667.00
2/ This excludes governrment contribution in terms of taxes foregone, and includes import
taxes on vehicles and taxes on fuel (project related purchases of fuel average around 40 % of
pump purchase price).



- 30 -
Table 6: Project Results
A. Direct Benefits: Performance of Key Crops
Avemg.              A,rg
CROPS                79-64: .4i8         86166     06/8      87188     88/8      89190 :-  .2                  #2- 8.#-
GROUNDNUTS        -
Are Cuivated          a9.OB       98.50     65.90     81.90     96.52     99.55     88.35     9z19      81.85     66.98     p.53
Area Harvesed     ..   81J2       91.40     58.50     80.40       95      94.76     86.07     89.48     79.85     64.60     82.
YIeld               t1t94.8       1,150     1,295     1,372     1,263     1,038     1,509      883      1,054      649- 157.00
Producton             10024      105.10     75.80    110.35      120      98.36    129.90     74.53     84.16     54.87    "9479
MAIZE
Area Cultivated         *.46      10.00     17.50     13.60     13.43     13.60     11.47     13.52     19.84     15.55    .14.28
Area Harvested          7,Q        9.20     16.70     11.05     13.01     1z65      10.50     11.32     17.31     1207    1z65
Yl ond               10.18        1,357     1,590     1,566     1,187     1,227     1,347     1,204     1,179     1,514  A1352.33
ProducUon              I 0 i$i- lQt6  12.50  26.50    17.30     15.44     15.52     14.14     13.63     20.42     18.27     17.08
EARLY MILLET
Area Cultivated       :12.:54     21.30     37.60     34.30     32.33     31.89     41.87     38.02     48.94     36.66     3-.88
Area Harvested         .9.36-  19.20        35.40     32.15     31.37     30.19     40.62     39.32     46.14     31.61     34.00
Yield                1074,00      1,197     1,214     1,205     1,218     1,115      936       918      1,076     1,140   1113.22
Production              10.8      22.90     43.00     38.75     38.20     33.66     38.01     36.08     49.65     36.02     37.30
LATE MILLET
Area Culvtated         1438       14.70     15.40     15.20     13.28     14.80     1273     13.07     11.44     1Z55      13.09
Area Harvested         ti.92      13.70     14.50     12.55     12.85     13.49     1Z13      1Z45      10.21      9.88     12.42
Yleld                 996.60      1,136      798       988       888      1,063     1,045      888       805      1,037   S96SW7
Production             12.O4.  15.60        11.60     12.40     11.42     14.34     12.88     10.81      8.21     10.25  . 11.02
SWAMP/PADDY
AreaCulUvated         i20.tG       6.90      8.50     12z25     1279      18.62      9.33     11.1o     13.17      8.5. 106
Area Harvested          1660       6.20      7.30      9.65     12Z39     14.01      9.15      9.78     10.19      7.90      0.62
Yield                4 4O46.4..    1,450    1,599     1,321     1,009     1,402     1,253     1,230     1,228     1,583   1341.57
Producton              23.,6    8.90        11.70     12.75     1ZS0      12.20     11.46     12.01     1Z51      12Z50   . 1; .84
TOTAL PADDY
AreaCultivated         26.60      11.80     13.70     19.42     16.36     24.85     14.01     16.21     17.32     12.68      6.2B
Area Harvested         21,fl      10.60     1Z10      15.22     15.93     35.62     11.60     14.00     13.45     11.22     1-$53
Production             34.28      27.20     23.10     24.46     20.43     29.49     21.23     21.00     20.53     19.41      Z98
Area data in '000 ha; yield In kg/a; production In '000 tons.



- 31 -
Table 6 (cont.): Project Results (p. 2)
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal          1          Actual
Estimate             (At Final Development)
Economic Rate of Return                     23 %                        2 %
Underlying Assumptions
1.                      Was based on optimum use  Input supplies were
of inputs (farm models).     disrupted during project
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   p erio d .
2.                       Assumed a 1 % increase in   Assumed a I % increase in
yield for without-project    yield for without project
scenario.                   scenario.
C. Studies
Purpose as                                   Impact of
Studies             Defined at               Status                 Study
Appraisal
1           Study of GPMB          Two separate studies  Clarified extent and
undertaken by         nature of GPMB's
USAID: in May         problems, thereby
1985 and in           paving the way for
February 1989         its privatization
2            Adoption and          Done                   Contributed to
Diffusion Study                              design of
Agricultural
Services Project
3            Kafo Study            Done                   Contributed to
better delivery of
extension
4            Transfer of Jahally-                         Helped in the
Pacharr Project to    Done                   operational transfer
Farmers                                      of project.



Table 7: STATUS OF COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT AGREEMENT COVENANTS
SECTION N. of                          COVENANT                              STATUS                         COMMENTS                               ACTION TAKEN OR
Crtdit Agremenct                                                                                                                                      REQUESTED
4.01(a)     The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MOA, GCU &    Partially
GPMIB, with due diligence and efficiency                        Met
4.01(b)     The Borrower shall:
(i)     not later than October in each year make budgetary   Not Fully  (i)      Foreign exchange was not easily and readily
allocations adequate to meet the foreign exchange cost of    Met         available before 1988 due to severe balance of
recurrent fertilizer imports during the following FY;                    payments crisis
(ii)    review with the Fund & IDA MOA's annual estimates of    Met    (ii)      Counterpart funds, though largely inadequate,
expenditures for the Project, and on the 1st day of the 1st              were provided to the Project quarterly on time.
month of each quarter, MOA shall have in its accounts
the amounts required to cover expenditures for the Project
during such quarter which are not to be covered by
withdrawals from the Special Account, the Fund Loan
Account or the Credit Account;
(iii)    establish a P.C.U. with TOR's satisfactory to IDA. The  Met    (iii)    PCU was established, well-staffed and functioned
Project Director's qualifications and experience shall be                satisfactorily. Project Director was the Deputy
satisfactory to IDA, and shall have a grade of at least                  Permanent Secretary.
Under Secretary within the Borrower's civil service;
(iv)    appoint a civil works administrator, with qualifications   Met in   (iv)    A Civil Works Administrator was never hired.
experience and TORs satisfactory to IDA.  He shall   alter-              Paul  Kjaergaard  and  Partners,  hired  for
coordinate his activities with the P.C.U.             native             architectural consultancy, too over this role.
(v)     establish  a Project Coordination Committee  (PCC)      way      (v)     A   Project  Coordinating   Committee  was
composed of the Permanent Secretaries of MOA,                            established to and functioned well until 1988, but
Ministries of Finance & Trade, Economic, Planning and                    subsequently lost its momentum. Meetings were
Industrial Development, the Secretary General of the                     less frequent as there was no incentive to attend
President's Office, the Managing Director of GPMB, the                   and no sanction for non-attendance.
General Manager of GCU, the MOA officer responsible
for coordinating Project activities of DOA & DOC and
the Directors of other departments or agencies responsible
for carrying out the Project. The P.C.C. shall, inter alia,
review and monitor the execution of the Project and
review the work of the PCU;



SECTION W'. of                        COVENANT                             STATUS                        COMMENTS                             ACTION TAJKEN OR
Credit AgpvnL                                                                                                                                    REQUESTED
4.01(b)     (vi)    establish a Project Coordination Working Committee to          (vi)    The Project Coordination Working Committee
continued            coordinate agricultural development, input supply &                    was set up but proved to be too cumbersome and
marketing and report to the PCU;                                      superfluous. It soon ceased to function.
(vii)   establish Division Coordination Committees in each            (vii)    Divisional Coordinating Committee also did not
Division of the Borrower with TORs and membership                      function as envisaged, being too cumbersome and
satisfactory to IDA & the Fund.                                       unnecessary.
4.02 (a)    The Borrower shall make available to GCU, SDR 1,790,000 from  Met
the Credit, SDR 1, 240,000 from the Fund Loan and 51,600,000
from the Italian Grant under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement agreed
between the Borrower and GCU which shall have been approved
by the Association and the Fund including provisions making the
loan interest-free, with repayment of the principal at the end of ten
years. The Borrower shall consult with the Association before the
date of repayment on whether it is advisable to convert the loan
into a contribution to the equity of GCU.                                                                                        |_l
4.02 (b)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan  Met                                                                                 w
Agreement to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association
and the Fund and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the
Fund Loan and, except the Association and the Fund otherwise
agree, the Borfower shall not change the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision of it.                                                                                                                   l
Section 4.03   In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants  Met
and specialists (Schedule 5) whose qualifications, experience and
terms of employment are satisfactory to the Association and the
Fund, and in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the Bank's
Guidelines published by the Bank in August 1981.
4.04 (a)   The Borrower shaU take required necessary action for prompt  Partially   Tender board and approvals were extremely slow.
issuance of import licenses, foreign exchange permits and all other    Met
approvals required under laws, to ensure the allocation of foreign
exchange for the acquisition and importation of farm inputs and
other materials required for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower insures, or makes provision for the insurance of the  Met
imported goods to be financed out of Credit or Fund Loan
proceeds against incidents to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery to the place of use or installation, and for which
indemnity shall be payable in a usable currency to repla_ and
l____________  repair such goods.



SECI!ON W'. Of                         COVENANT                              STATUS                         COMMENTS                               ACTION TAKEN OR
Crdit Agreemew                                                                                                                                        REQUESTED
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that all goods and services financed out  Met
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan be used solely for
l ___________   Project.
Section 4.05    The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association, project  Met
(a)        plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, work and
procurement schedules, and any material modifications or
additions, as may be required by the Association.
Section 4.05    The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate   Partially   Information provided by GCU  to the Association was
(b)       for the progress of the Project (including cost and, where       Met    incomplete.
appropriate, the benefits to be derived), to identify the goods and
services financed by the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's and the
Fund's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in
the Project and to examine the goods financed by the Credit or the
Fund Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)                                                                                             4-
furnish to the Association and the Fund, at regular intervals, all
information reasonably requested by the Association, concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and
the goods and services financed by the proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for goods, works  Met
or services to be financed by the proceeds of the Credit and the
Fund Loan, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded, and the contract price.
(d)    Not later than six months after the Closing Date or other date  Met      Part 1 submitted by Borrower.
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Association and the Fund a report,
satisfactory to the Association, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost, the realized and potential
benefits, the performance by the Borrower, the Association and the
Fund as required by the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment maned of the
purposes of the Credit and Fund Loan.



SECTION N. of                         COVENANT                             STATUS                         COMMENTS                             ACTION TAKEN OR
Creit Agreemeni                                                                                                                                   REQUESTED
Section 4.06    By no later than December 31, 1984, the Borrower shall require   Not Met  Information on the revolving fund balance was not
(a)       GCU to (i) establish and maintain a revolving fund on terms and         available to PCR preparationmission; major problems were
conditions satisfactory to the Association and the Fund, and pay       encountered in its maintenance.
into the fund all repayments of credits made to Registered Primary
Societies under the Project, and (ii) use the fund to make further
credits to Registered Primary Societies eligible for credit under the
Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall require GCU to apply the eligibility criteria   Not met   Efigibility criteria for cooperatives to borrow from GCU
and terms and conditions in Schedule 6 of this Agreement in            were not adhered to.
making credits according to paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c)   The Borrower shall require GCU  to make credits on terms   Not Met  Major problems in GCU  management and financial
whereby GCU shall obtain, by written agreements with Registered        accounting. Record keeping was inadequate. As a result,
Primary Societies or by other appropriate legal means, rights to       information on the use of project money by GCU is
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association, the Fund       incomplete.
and GCU, including, in each case (i) the right to require that the
goods to be financed by the Credit and the Fund Loan are used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project; (ii) the right to require
the Registered Primary Society to maintain adequate records,
reflecting appropriate accounting practices in  its  financial
operations; (tii) the right of the Fund, the Association and of GCU
to inspect the goods purchased with the proceeds of the Credit and
the farms on which they are used; and (iv) the right of GCU to
suspend or termninate access to the proceeds of a credit by a
Registered Primary Society, if it fails to perform iti obligations
under its agreement with GCU.
Section 4.07    Without any limitation or restriction upon this Agreement, no later   Done
than one year after the Effective Date of this Agreement, or other
agreed date, the Borrower, the Fund and the Association shall hold
consultations on the progress of the implementation of Part F.2 of
the Project.
Section 4.08    The Borrower shall: (a) No later than December 31, 1984, prepare      Done
and furnish to the Association for review and comments, its
proposals for implementation of Part A.2 of the Project; and (b)
implement proposals incorporating the Association's comments.



SECTION W'. of                         COVENANT                               STATUS                         COMMENTS                               ACTION TAKEN OR
Credit Agreemee                                                                                                                                        REQUeSTED
Section 4.09    For purposes of Part D of the Project, no later than March 31 of  Met
(a)       each year, the Borrower shall prepare and submit to the
Association for review and comments, the annual research program
for the succeeding year, of the agricultural research station at Sapu
and its outstations.
(b)   After review and comments of each annual program  by the         Met
Association and the Fund, the Borrower sball make appropriate
revisions, taking such comments into account, and shall carry out
the year's program as revised.
Section 4. 10    The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the  Met
(a)       study referred to in Part A.5 of the Project is carried out by
December 31, 1984 or other date established by the Association.
(b)   No later than three months after completion of the study referred  Met
to in the preceding paragraph of this Section, the Borrower shall
review the recommendations of the study with the Association and
the Fund, and implement them with a time schedule satisfactory to
the Fund and the Association.
Section 4.11    No later than June 30, 1986, without any limitation or restriction  Met
upon the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Fund and the Association, a detailed review of the overall
project performance, allowing for changes if necessary, to ensure
the achievement of the purposes of the Project as set forth in the
introductory paragraph to the Project described in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 4.12   In order to assist the Borrower in: (i) the organization and     Met      Italian firm carries this out successfully.
implementation of an in-service training program on the basis of
the training and visit system developed in Part E.2 of the Project;
and (i) the coordination of its manpower and training needs, and
to prepare a program for the retirement and redeployment of DOA
staff, the Borrower shall employ suitably qualified and experienced
specialists with adequate terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, no later than December 31, 1984.
ARTICLE V -  The Borrower shall maintain or require maintenance of separate      Met
Other       accounts reflecting consistently maintained appropriate accounting
Covenants    practices in operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
Section 5.01   the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
(a)       responsible for implementing the Project or any part thereof.



SECTION NW. of                          COVENANT                               STATUS                          COMMENTS                               ACTION TAKEN OR
Credi Ag                                                                                                                                                 REQUESTED
(b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall: (i)     Met
maintain or require to be maintained separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures for withdrawals from the Credit Account of the
Fund Loan Account, on the basis of statements of expenditure; (ii)
retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures for withdrawals from the Credit Account or the
Fund Loan Account, on the basis of statements of expenditure; and
(iii) enable the Association's and the Fund's representatives to
examine such records.
(c)   The Borrower shall: () have the accounts referred to in paragraphs  Met
(a) and (b) of this Section and Special Accounts 'A' and 'B' for
each  fiscal year audited, according to consistently applied
appropriate auditing principles, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Fund, as
soon as available, but no later than six months after the end of
each year, a certified copy of the report of the auditors' report
satisfactory to the Association and including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors, in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, as to wtiether the proceeds withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the Fund Loan Account, on the basis of statements of
expenditure, have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association as reasonably
requested, all information concerning such separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof.
Section 5.02    The Borrower shall: (a) take all necessary action to ensure the  Met
(a)       purchase price of fertilizer shall have been announced to the
general public by December I of each year.
(b)   Eliminate fertilizer subsidies by no later than June 30, 1988.    Met
Section 5.03    The Borrower shall, by no later than December 31, 1984, prepare  Met
(a)             and furnish to the Fund and the Association for their approval, a
policy statement for the establishment of prices of certified and
improved seeds.
(b) 1 Thereafter, the Borrower shall implement the policy statement     Met
which shall have been approved by the Fund and the Association.



SECTION W. Of                         COVENANT                              STATUS                        COMMENTS                             ACTION TAKEN OR
Credit Ag___mc_t                                                                                                                                  REQUESTED
Section 5.04   The Borrower, the Fund and the Association shall review annually,    Not  Not done systematically.
(a)       the adequacy of the interest rates and interest spread set forth in    Done
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, on the basis of criteria satisfactory
to the Fund and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause OCU to implement any adjustments in   Not
interest rates which shall be made according to the review referred    Done
to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 5.05    The Borrower shall cause all plant, equipment, vehicles, properties   Not met   Counterpart funds were frequently inadequate.
and facilities included in the Project, to be maintained in
accordance with appropriate administrative, engineering financial
and agricultural practices and shall provide promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for this
purpose.



- 39 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
(staff weeks)
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project         Planned       Final               Comments
Through Appraisal   not specified  226.8    Extensive time (4 years) spent on
preparation due to changing views
on project scope; and 2.5 years
between appraisal and board
presentation due to financing gaps
Appraisal through    not specified  10.7
Board Approval
Board Approval     not specified    1.0
Through
Effectiveness
Supervision        not specified   135.3
TOTAL                         373.8



Table 8 B: MISSIONS
No. of
Stage of     Month/  Persons in  Days in
Project Cycle Year    Field       Field   Specialization Represented         Types of Problems
PRE          Jan '78       1         4    Preparation
PRE          Mar '78       1         9    Preparation
PRE          Sep '78       2         2   Seed Multiplication Component
PRE          Oct '78       1         9
PRE          Nov'78        1        11
PRE          Nov '78       1        10
PRE          Nov '78       1        10   Preparation
PRE          Jan '79       1        10
PRE          Mar '79       2         7   Livestock Component
PRE          May '79    1           4  Preparation                           _-
PRE          Oct '79       1        3    Nutrition Component
PRE          Jan '80       3         8   Preparation                                  ;-
PRE          Mar '80       2        23   Preparation                        Scaling down project size
PRE          Sep '80       4        21   Preparation
PRE          Sep '80       1         7    Preparation  Extension                                                                       4
PRE          Oct '80       1        12   Preparation  Credit Component      Gcu's financial situration                                 o
PRE          Feb '81       1         7    Preparation
PRE          Jun '81       1        10   Economist                          SMU pricing policy, GCU credit structure and
____ ____ ___   ____ ________ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___  discipline
PRE          May '82       1        10   Architect/Planner                  Civil works component
PRE          Jun '82       2        10   Technical Mission: Infrastructure    GCU Debt
Review, PPF, Amendments
APPR.        Oct '82       8        14   Economists, agriculturalists, financial
analyst; participation by ODA and
_______   IIFAD
APPR.        Feb '83       1         7    Economist
APPR.        Jun '83       1         3    Follow-up to appraisal            Outstanding Constraints lender PPF
APPR.        Sep '83       2         8   Supervision
APPR.        May '84       1        15   Loan Officer                       Financial sector issues
NEGOTS.    Jun '84         1        15   Fufillment of effectiveness.
Conditions: Start up Mission
NEGOTS.    Oct '84         2         5    Financial Analyst              _Conditions of effectiveness



Table 8 B: MISSIONS (2)
No. of
Stage of    Monthl  Persons in Days in
Project Cycle Year    Field      Field   Specialization Represented       Types of Problems
SPVN        Dec '84            1      12 Loan Officer
SPVN        Mar '85            4      13 Financial Analyst, Agriculturalists,   Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation,
livestock specialist             reorganization of extension services, examination of
possible livestock component
SPVN        Aug '85            1       6 Financial Analyst                General supervision
SPVN        Dec '85            1       6 Agriculturalist                  Seed Multiplication Unit and extension components
SPVN        May '86            4     12 Financial Analyst, agriculturists  Availability of inputs, GCU repayment record
SPVN        Oct '86           3      14 Mid-term Review                   Problems with Audit Component & MOA
SPVN        Nov '86            1     1 5 Mid-term Review: Livestock       Need for livestock prod. prior project
SPVN        May '87            1     11 Extension
SPVN        Jul '87           3      10 Supervision of all Components
SPVN        Nov '87            1      7 Financial Analyst                 Review of all components, expecially credit
SPVN        Nov '87            1      8 Financial Analyst                 Supervision
SPVN        May '88            1     11 Financial Analyst                 Credit
SPVN        Oct '88            1      8 Agricultural extension            Extension component  : monitoring and evaluation;
SAPU
SPVN        Feb '89            1       5 Financial Analost                Credit reform, extension, SAPU operations
SPVN        Aug '89            1      5 Supervision
SPVN        Oct '89            1       7 Supervision
SPVN        Nov '89            1     13 Supervision
SPVN        Mar '90            1       9 Supervision
SPVN        Oct '90            1      4 Extension Specialist              T & V evaluation
SPVN        Feb '91            2      4 Extension Specialists
SPVN        Nov '91            1      8 Financial analyst, FAO/CP         Request for first extension of project
agriculturalist
SPVN        May '92           6      10 Financial analyst, extension specialist Closing date extension
SPVN        Jul '92           4       8 Extension specialist
* Form 590 available - status rating 2



- 42 -
Table 9: Technical Assistance Financed by ADP II: Planned and Actual
Technical Assistance    Duration    Duration                Comments
Planned at Appraisal    (Planned    (Actual)
A. International Staff
Extension and Training    4 years    4 years
Specialist
Cooperatives Advisor    3 years      3 years
Project Accountant      3 years      5.5 yrs
Manpower Development  2 years        4 years      Funded by the Italian grant
Officer
B. Consultant Services
Extension and Training    1 year     1 year
Crop Research           9 mths       none        Done through USAID-assisted
GARD project
Assistance for Seed     4.5 mths     none        ODA staff already assisting
Multiplication Unit                              SAPU
Management Training     3 mths       none
Study of GPMB           10 mths      none        USAID did two studies on GPMB
Project Preparation     12 mths      none        FAO/CP were requested to do
this preparation.
Technical Assistance
Not Planned at Appr.
Sapu Consultancy                     3 mths      Done by Gambian Management
Development Institute in response
to concern over Sapu mgmt.
PKP Consultancy                      4 years     Included the design study of
building for extension workers
(financed under PPF) and
supervision of civil works
Adoption & Diffusion                 3 mths      Done by local consultants in 1992
Study                                            to assess adoption and diffusion
of extension messages
Kafoo Study                          9 mths      Reviewed the use of "peer
groups" in extension
TOTAL                   16.50        21.75
years       years



- 43 -
Table 10  Training of Personnel Financed by ADP II
No.
COURSES              DURA-             LOCATION               staff
TION___
Higher diploma in agr.ext.   1 year    Gambia College                 17
Higher diploma in agr.ext.   I year    Amabou Bello, Nigeria           7
Certificate in agr.ext.     2 years   Gambia College                  34
M.Sc. Extension             1 year    Reading University UK            5
Post Grad.DIP in Extens.     I year    Reading University UK           2
Crop Physiology M.Sc         I year    Reading University UK           1
Crop Science M.Sc            I year    Landbouwu Univ.Netherlds        I
Statistics                  9 mths   USA                               4
Financial Management        4 years   Kenya/UK                         1
Project Management          3 mths   RIPA/UK                           3
Secretarial                  1 year    GMTI, Gambia                    4
Computer                     I year    Kofi Adampa, Gambia             3
K. Saito: A:\GAMBIA.PCR: Mar 18/94



Page 1
Table 11: Economic Costsa nd Benefits of Project
(In VO Dalasis)
Wfthot Project 1/
PY1           PY2          PY3          PY4           PYS          PY6          PY7           PYs          PY9
1984         1985          1986         19s7          1988         1989         1990          1991         1992
COSTS:
A. Development Costal/
Etension and Trak*n                                 -                                                                  -            -
Coop                           - eraiv Do
Crop Developm't                                                  -                          -             -                         -             -
Seed M nicio Unil
Pmoect Cordaion Uni-
Proect Monitorig ad Evil. Unit        .             -
Uvesbck SW5- 
Project Prp. Faciy (PPF)                   0.0          6.            0.0          0.0          0.0           OA           0.           0.0           0.0
Sub-total (a)                        0. e0                      0.0          0.3           0.0          OA           0.0           0.0          0.0
S. Producdon Coss                                       -
FerizKr and Chamc                     3,228.8      6,258.0      10,362.5     15,550.7      15,737.4     38,536.4     54,703.4     67,154.0      83,786.5
Fign Equpmwnt aud kpts                1,007.9      1,953.6       3,234.8      4,854.4      4,912.7      12,029.8     17,076.7     20,963.3      26,155.5
Labor                                10,834.7     16,299.7      30,173.4     65,465.3     84,028.8    104,818.1     130,771.9    155,853.3     195,723.0
Subotod (b)                      18,071.0     24,611.3      43,770.3     36,870A      104,673.9    166,384.3    202,61.8     243,370.6     304,666.1
C. Recurrent Coats (c) 61               66.7          171.2        229.0       S3IA          1,000.8      1,111.6       M261         1,163.5       864.1
TOTAL COSTS (a.b.c))                  16,127.2     24,612.5      43,0908      86,2231.     106,679.6    166,4965.    203,473.0    246,129.1     306,629.1
BENEFITS:
Groundnut 2)                       1,022,169.3    977,220.3    684,140.8    407,538.5    453,300.1     481,414.8    662,708.6    599,186.7    368,904.2
Malze                                34,224.1     30,079.6      20,813.6     12,300.0      17,290.4     17,65.3      15,237.9      13,308.6     11,742.7
Sorghum                              19,644.6     17,321.0      12,066.5      7,25.4        9,824.3     10,262.0      8,928.4      8,020.1       7,141.9
Mi (eary                             54,861.2     48,372.0      33,667.3     20,261.9     27,436.1      28,377.5     24,447.8     21,745.4      19,174.4
Rice (paddy)                        137,991.6    120,488.0     101,659.0     75,826.2      99,080.4    102,761.5     81,729.6     79,556.9      66,010.8
TOTAL BENEFITS                      1,268,690.9   1,193,481.2    862,336.2   623,132.0     606,331.3    640,472.0    703,062.3     721,317.7    472,974.0
NET BENEFITS                        1,263,763.7   1,161,790.7   808,336A     436,863.1     601,261.6    483,S76.1    683,674.3     476,688.6    166,444.S
ERR                                     1J1%
1/ PYI -PYlO0 re In currentpres. PYI 1-21 area i 1993 constant pries.
2V Wdghed average of urdacrlcaed groundmit (63%), growdrU oN (17%), and meal (20%).
3/ Inckding repacent cos for bubdings and veicles.
Source: ADPII Proed Coordinati  Unit, V.flrk OOulok for Major Prlnsy Commodltes,' October 1992. World Bar* Report No. 814/92, Project Staff Appral Repot.



Page 2
Table t1 (cont.): Economic Costs and Benefits ot Project
(in 000 Dalasls)
Without Prolect
PYI041         PY11          PY12           PY13           PY14           PY15           PY16           PY17          PYle
1993          1994          1995           1996           1997           1998           1999           2000          2001
COSTS:
A. Development CotsIl
Etersion and Traini g                                             -                             -              -              -              -
Cop --  Devebpnw- -
Crop Depme                                                        ,.
Seed Mullpction Unit                 -
Proect Coordination Uni              -
Proect Monitorting md Evel. Unit
lvestock Servke
Prect Prep. Facit (PPF)                   0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0             *A             0.0 eo         ,.
Sub-total (a)                        .0            0.0            6.0           0.0            0.0            *.              0.0           0.0         . 0
B. Production Costa
Feriliere and Chemicals            85,462.3      87,171.5       88,915.0       90,693.3       92,507.1       94,357.3       96,244.4      98,169.3     100,132.7
Farm Equipment and Inputs           26,678.6       27,212.2      27,756.4       28,311.5       28,877.8       29,455.3        30,044.4      30,645.3     31,258.2
Labor                              196,701.6      197,685.1     198,673.6      199,666.9      200,665.3      201,668.6       202,676.9     203,690.3    204,708.8
Sub-total (b)                   308,842.1     312,0681      316,3U4S       318,671.7      322,060.2      326,481.2       328,966.8     332,5041     336,091.7
C. Recurrent Costs (c) L/             1,802.0        1,102.0       1,802.0        1,802.0       1,802.0        1,802.0         1,802.0        1,102.0      1,802.0
TOTAL COSTS (&.b.c))                310,644.5    32138701        317,1451       320,473.7      323,862.2      327,23.2        330,7671      334.3061     337,801.7
BENEFITS:
Goundrts 2/                         372593.3      376319.2       380082.4       383883.2      387722.1        391599.3       395515.3      399470.4      403465.1
Maize                                11860.1       11,978.7      12,098.5       12,219.5       12,341.7       12,465.1        12,589.7      12,715.6     12,842.8
Sorghum                               7213.3       7,285.5        7,358.3        7,431.9        7,508.2        7,581.3        7,657.1       7,733.7       7,811.0
Millet (eaMO                         19366.1       19,559.8      19,755.4       19,952.9       20,152.5       20,354.0        20,567.5      20,763.1     20,970.8
Rice (paddy)                          670.9       67,337.6       68,011.0       68,691.1       69,378.0       70,071.8       70,m72.5      71,480.2      72,195.0
TOTAL BENEFITS                      477,703.7     482,480J       487,306.6      492,178A       497,100A       602,071A        507,092.1     612,163.1    617,284.7
NET BENEFITS                        167,069.2      168,6091      170,168.1      171,704.S      173,248.3      174,78.2       176,324A      177,U86.1    171,383.0



Page 3
PY19         PY20
2002         2003
COSTS:
A. Deveokpnd Costsil
Extnson wid Truli'                                -
Crop    vopm                        -             -
So  lwut        Unk  
P.t Coordudon Unr                   -             -
Pre     d Manor  wid Evl. Un        -
LUvstork Sent-
Psetd Prep. Fcfy (PPF)                   S0.          .3
Sub4otW in) \A                                   S
S. Producto Coe 
Feetzus wd  Chenlk                102,135.3     104.178.0
Fwm Equlpmnt end Iputs             31.83.4       32,521.1
Labor                             205,732.3     2067M.0
St*4d (b                      331.7911      343AGA.1
C. Reureft Ceods (c                  1882.3        1.88
TOTAL COSTS (e.b                   341,*3*       34122
BENEFITS:
Gexm*s 2f                         407499.8      411574.8
make                               12,9712       13,100.0
Sonrghm                             7,889.1       7068.0
Madt(-1ty)                         21,180.5      21,39Z3
Rbe (peddc                         7,917.0       73,6.1
TOTAL BENEFITS                     122I.47       127*12
NET BENEFITS                       188884*       124A20A



Page 4
Table 11 (cont.): Economic Coast and Benefits of Project
(in 100 Osaslal
With Proect V
PY1         PY2          PY3         PY4          PY5         PYs         PY7         PYS
1964        1985         1986        1987         1968        1989        1990        1991
COSTS:
A. Developrent CostaW
Ext.neobn wdTrairhV                      9.9        11.8         98.4       740.8      1,371.6     5,178.8       124.2      2,551.9
Coopeai  De _lopmert                    28.5        23.4          0.0       719.6      1,4852      3,870.1      1,313.9     1,249.2
Crop Delpnt                              0.0         0.0         62.8      1,026.4        0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Seed Mu*pkaion Unit                     0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0      1,048.3        78.1       289.0
Proed Corwdt tn Ul                      17.4         0.0          0.0        83.1        23.2        136.6       154.7       132.3
P.e Mono mid Evel. Unt                   0.5         7.2          0.0         0.0         0.0         98.1        13.4        90.9
Livstock SevIe                           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Pr*ct Prp. Facliy (PPF)                196.8         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub.otal (a)                      2".1         42.4        IlSA      1,301       1,t .2      4,203.3       623         422
B. Production Costs
Fetles and Chen*cm                  3,228.8     6,258.0     10,3B2.5    15,550.7     15,737.4    38,536.4    54,703.4    07,154.0
Farm Equipment and Inputs           1,007.9     1,953.6      3,234.8     4,854.4      4,912.7    12,029.8    17,076.7    20,963.3
Labor                              12,979.6    18,827.5     37,511.1    84,373.3    114,826.9    126,977.4    1e2,845.0   199,280.7
Sub.total (b)                  17,216.3    27,03.1      11,103     104,771A     136,4783    177,5A      234,62.1    27,308.0
C. Recurrent Costs (c) 6/                 331.2      1,164.5     1,291.2      3,243.8     3,807.8     6,250.2      5,985.4     8,713.5
TOTAL COSTS Ia+b.c))                17,602A      29,246J     62,519.1    109,3243    140,51U6    137,017.1   241,233A   237,173.7
BENEFITS:
Grundmus 2/                       919,914.3   624,684.8   626,033.3    399,221.5   358,091.8   494,670.6    406,936.7    389,538.8
Maize                              34,224.1    66,304.4     28,799.2    14,891.6    20,629.3     18,816.4    17,051.8    24.304.7
Sorghun                            19,644.6    26,691.5     14,131.0     6,068.0      8,806.6    13,501.1     9,823.7     14,226.1
MLib (ealy)                        54,861.2    98,942.8     60,841.7    35,388.8    41,396.0    47,870.9     42,117.8    50,62.1
RIoe (paddy)                      137,991.6    111,466.5    97,631.6    59,631.5    110,268.2    80,717.6    89,174.1    71,706.2
TOTAL BENEFITS                    1,166,636.3   023,070.0    327,436J    516,201,3    639,1903    666,676.6   U64,103J S  60,4065
NET BENEFITS                      1,148,8333    690,24.1    774,117.7    405,877.    3S3,6063    467,679A    303,8703    282,832.2



Page 5
Table 11 (cont.): Economic Costs and Benefits of Project
(In '000 Dalasis)
Pyg       PYIO 4       PYII        PY12         PY13        PYi4        PY15        PY16        PY17
1992        1993        1994        1995        1996        1997        1998        1999        2000
COSTS:
A. Developwent Costsli
Etension and Trnig                  1,291.8      986.8       986.8       986.8        986.8       986.8       986.8       986.8       986.8
Cooperl Dev-lopmert                    0.0       102.0        94.0         85.0        60.0        40.0        20.0         0.0         0.0
Crp Devebpmer                        282.7       342.0       310.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Seed Mu11patlon Unl                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Project CoodiatIon Uni               796.4       248.6         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Project Monloring and Evdl. Unk      142.7        69.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Lkvestock Sewvces                    472.7        94.5        94.5        94.5        94.5         94.5        94.5        94.5        94.5
Prjed Prep. FacUy (PPF)                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub4otal (a)                    903.9      1,843.      1,488.3     1,166.3     1.141.3     1,121.3     1,101.3     1,081.3     1,031.)
B. Production Costs
Fertilizer and ChemIcals         83,786.5    66,236.9    66,236.9    66,236.9    66,236.9    66,236.9     66.236.9    66,236.9    66,236.9                  c
Farm Equipmen and Inputs         26,155.5    20,677.0    20,677.0    20,677.0    20,677.0    20,677.0    20,677.0    20,677.0    20,677.0
Labor                           200,353.2    160,857.0   160,857.0   160,857.0    160,857.0   160,857.0    160,857.0   160,857.0   160,857.0
Sub4otal (b)                310,295.2    247,770.0   247,770.s   247,770.8   247,n70.9   247,770.8    247,770.9   247,770.8    247,770.8
C. Recurrent Costs (c) LI             6,276.4      7,595.0     7,595.0     7,595.0     7,595.0     7,595.0      7,595.0    7,595.0      7,595.0
TOTAL COSTS (+b.c)               31T7,476.6    257,200.0   266,881.)   256,632.3    266,607.3    266,487.3    25647.3   266,447.3   256,447.3
BENEFITS:
Groumts 21                      172,089.9   364,265.5   371,550.9   378,981.9   386,561.5   394,292.7    402,178.6    410,m.2    418,426.6
MaIze                            18,810.8     15,986.9    16,306.6    16,632.8    16,965.4    17,304.7    17,650.8    18,003.8    18,363.9
Sorghum                          12,501.5     8,847.7     9,024.7      9,205.1     9,389.3     9,577.0     9,768.6     9,963.9    10,163.2
mi  (ealy)                       36,729.6    34,633.8    35,326.5    36,033.0    36,753.7    37,488.7    38,238.5    39,003.3    39,783.3
Rioa (paddy)                     55,149.6    50,366.0    60,553.3    61,764.4    62,999.7    64,259.7    65,544.9    06,855.8    68,192.9
TOTAL BENEFITS                   296.281A    483,09S.S    492,761.    602,617.2   112,669S.    622,922.8    633,381A    644,e4s.0   664,930.6
NET BENEFITS                      -22,194.1    226,"1.0    236,810.7   24US,04J.   266,162.2   266,4365    276,814.1   287,601.7   29,482.7



Page 6
PY18        PY19        PY20
2001        2002        2003
COSTS:
A. Development Cosdsl/
EBdension And Trann                  986.8       988.8       986.8
Cooperati Deveopm                      0.0         0.0         0.0
Crop Developmert                       0.0         0.0         0.0
Seed Multpication UnI                  0.0         0.0         0.0
Proed Co ei*oton Uni                   0.0         0.0         0.0
Proed Monlorr and Eval. UnI           0.0         0.0         0.0
lUestock Servces                      94.5        94.5        94.5
Projed Prep. Facly (PPF)               0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-total ia)                 1,081.3      1,081.3     1,031.3
B. Productin Costs 
Fertze and Chemicals             66,236.9    66,236.9    66,236.9                                                                                         '.
Farn Equipment and Inputs        20,677.0    20,677.0    20,677.0
Labor                           160,857.0   160,857.0   160,857.0
Sub-total (b)               247 70*9   247.770i    247,TT@i
C. Recurrent Coats {c) U1             7,595.0      7,596.0     7,595.0
TOTAL COSTS (&+b.c})             2U,447.3    286,447.3   256,447.3
BENEFITS:
Groundnut 21                    426,795.1    435,331.0   444,037.7
Malze                            18,7312     19,105.8    19,487.9
Sorghun                          10,366.5    10,573.8    10,785.3
MUS (Serly)                      40,579.0    41,390.6    42,218.4
Rice (psd&y                      69,556.7    70,947.9    72,366.8
TOTAL BENEFITS                   U61,020.       ,3".2    636,086.1
NET BENEFITS                     309,861.3    320,801*    332,448



