Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
co00pyl
ReportNo. P-35%L-GM
REPORT AND REODMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 8.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR THE
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 25, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit     =      Dalasis
1 Dalasi          =      US$0.3
3.5 Dalasis       =      US$1.0
1 SDR             =      US$1.06
Weights and Measures
1 hectare (ha)    =      2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)   =      2.2 pounds
1 metric ton      =      2,204.6 pounds
1 sq. kilometer   =      0.386 square miles
Abbreviations
GCU       =    Gambia Cooperative Union
GPMB      =    Gambia Produce Marketing Board
NSC       =    National Seeds Council
PCC       =    Project Coordination Committee
PCU       =    Project Coordinating Unit
PPMU      =    Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (MOA)
RDP       =    Rural Development Project (Cr. 644-GM)
SMU       =    Seed Multiplication Unit
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiary:              The Gambia Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
,Amount:                   SDR 8.9 million (US$9.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
On-lending Terms:         Up to SDR 3.0 million (IFAD and IDA) and US$1.6
million (Italian Aid) would be re-lent to the Gambia
Cooperative Union (GCU) for 10 years, interest
free. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government.
Project Description:      The proposed project would:  (i) consolidate progress
made under the Rural Development Project (Cr. 644-GM)
and address constraints which emerged during its
implementation; (ii) assist the Government with major
sectoral reforms; and (iii) improve production of
rainfed export and food crops. Specifically, the
project would: establish a project coordinating unit
and a monitoring and evaluation unit within the MOA;
strengthen the research capacity at the Sapu Agri-
cultural Station; strengthen the existing Seed Multi-
plication Unit (SMU) and establish a comprehensive
national seed program; assist the reorganization of
the Ministry of Agriculture and strengthen the
country's cooperative structure. The project would
also support the Government's efforts to phase out
fertilizer subsidies by the end of FY88 by financing
part of the fertilizer imports. Two special accounts
would also be established under the project to
expedite disbursement.
Benefits and Risks:       Principal quantifiable benefits expected from this
project would be derived from the incremental produc-
tion of groundnuts, cotton and food crops. Annual
incremental production at full development would be
about 13,200 tons of groundnuts, 2,100 tons of cotton
and 7,900 tons of cereal. Non-quantifiable benefits
include improvement in agricultural institutions.
There are no major technical risks associated with
the project as all technical proposals have already
been effectively demonstrated in The Gambia or other
ecologically similar West African areas. However, a
risk remains of a decline in crop production due to
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
either natural calamities (e.g., drought), or a
decline in export prices, or fertilizer use below
recommended levels resulting from the gradual phasing
out of subsidies.
Estimated Project Costs: 1/
(US$ Million)
Local    Foreign   Total
1.  Crop and Farm Development                    0.7        3.2       3.9
2.  Extension and Training                       0.7        2.5       3.2
3.  Agricultural Research                        0.7        1.2       1.9
4.  Seed Multiplication Unit                     0.5        0.9       1.4
5.  Cooperative Development                      0.7        1.1       1.8
6.  Project Coordinating Unit                    0.2        0.6       0.8
7.  Project Monitoring & Evaluation Unit         0.2        0.3       0.5
8.  Refinancing of PPF 2/                         -         0.7       0.7
Total Baseline Costs                         3.7       10.5     14.2
Physical Contingencies                       0.2        0.5      0.7
Price Contingencies                          1.5        2.4      3.9
Subtotal Project Costs                       5.4       13.4     18.8
Recurrent National Fertilizer Imports         -        10.2     10.2
(for three years)
Total Project Costs                          5.4       23.6     29.0
1/   Net of taxes which would be waived.
2/   The PPF advance finances consultant architects for the project's
civil work program, the financial and cooperative advisors; and The
Gambia Cooperative Union's (GCU) credit program. It eLlso provides
bridging financing for SAPU's research and seed multiplcation program.



- iii -
Financing Plan
Percentage of
Foreign      Local       Total        Total Project Cost
-------- US$ million --…-_____
IDA               6.4          3.0        9.4                 32
IFAD              4.3          0.7        5.0                 17
Italian Aid       8.6          0.9        9.5                 33
Government        4.3          0.5        4-8                 17
Farmers                        0.3        0.3                  1
Total            23.6          5.4       29.0                100
Estimated Disbursements
US$ million
FY85 1/FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
Annual          1.6   1.2   1.7  1.8  1.5   1.0   0.6
Cunmulative     1.6  2.8  4.5   6.3  7.8   8.8   9.4
Economic Rate of Return:  23%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No 4416-GM dated April 20, 1984
Map: IBRD No. 16862 Project Area
1/   Includes an advance of US$670,000 under the Project Preparation
Facility.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA FOR
THE SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of The Gambia for SDR 8.9 million (US$9.4
million equivalent) to help finance the Second Agricultural Development Pro-
ject. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms. Additional external financ-
ing for the project would be provided by a loan from the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) in the amount of SDR 4.8 million (US$5
million equivalent) repayable over 50 years including 10 years of grace with a
service charge of 1% annually, and by a grant from the Italian Department for
Development Cooperation in the amount of US$9.5 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report on The Gambia, dated December 23, 1980,
has been circulated to the Executive Directors. Its conclusions, updated by
the findings of subsequent missions, are reflected in the following assessment
of the state of the economy and its prospects. Country data appear in
Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.       The Republic of The Gambia comprises a narrow east-west strip of land
bordering the Gambia River and surrounded on three sides by the Republic of
Senegal. The terrain is extremely flat, maximum elevation being only 35 meters
above sea level. Three regions can be distinguished from the mouth of the
River inland: the mangrove belt, which extends upstream for over 240 km; the
"bantofaros", areas that become swamps in the rainy season and parts of which
are under rice cultivation; and, finally, the plateau of the eastern portion
of the country which is intensively cultivated in groundnuts, millet, and
other crops.
4.       The population (682,000 in 1982) is predominantly rural, some 80% of
the work force being engaged in agriculture and animal husbandry. Average
population density is 90 persons per km of arable land and reaches higher
level in some areas. Population pressure and persistently disappointing
harvests have in recent years prompted emigration to urban districts and
aggravated urban employment, particularly in and around the capital and
commercial center of Banjul.



-2-
Structure of the Economy
5.       The Gambian economy is traditionally centered on the production of
groundnuts, its major foreign exchange earner. Apart from groundnuts, cereals
(millet, sorghum, and rice) and livestock represent the principal products of
the agricultural sector. Despite the importance of agriculture in terms of
the share of the work force engaged, its importance in relation to the
economy's overall output has declined since the mid-1970s and currently
represents only about 30% of GDP. The trade and transport sectors, reflecting
the natural role of The Gambia as an entrepot for neighboring countries
together account for another 30% of the country's output. Tourism, though the
object of heavy investment in the past few years, has shown disappointing
results and presently accounts for less than 3% of GDP. Industrial activity
is limited to two groundnut crushing mills and a few modest manufacturing
enterprises supplying the domestic market, all of these located in Banjul.
Economic Performance and Financial Developments
6.       Th-oughout the later 1970s and up through 1981, major shortfalls in
groundnut production led the Gambian economy through a period of stagnation,
average annual growth of 'he economy as a whole being negligible over the
four-year period, 1977/78-1980/81. 1/ These shortfalls in groundnut
production were owed principally to natural causes in that period - repeated
drought or unseasonal rainfall. They also reflected the accumulated conse-
quences of falling terms of trade for groundnut farmers and declining yields
due to deficiencies in seed handling and fertilizer application. By the
1979/80 and 1980/81 crop seasons, production was down to an average of only
64,000 metric tons, less than half the average recorded over the corresponding
period just five years earlier.
7.       With favorable weather and moderate producer price increases, ground-
nut production has recovered by 50% in each of the past two crop years and
pushed overall growth of the economy to rates of 10.9% in 1981/82 and 5.4% in
1982/83. The improvement notwithstanding, average per capita income in 1982
was a mere $370 in current prices, and in real terms per capita incomes were
no higher than they had been nearly ten years earlier.
8.       The Gambia continues to suffer from a severely weakened financial
position which emerged in the later 1970s. Government revenue levelled out
beginning 1978/79, and budgetary savings turned negative as of 1980/81. A
doubled capital spending program in the latter 1970s, though heavily foreign
financed, has subsequently added pressure on government budgetary resources
already narrowed by economic stagnation and no longer supplemented by
surpluses of the groundnut marketing monopoly, GPNB, as had been the case up
to 1979. On external account, balance of payments deficits widened beginning
1977/78 as groundnut exports faltered. By end 1979, net foreign reserves had
fallen to a modestly negative position for the first time since Independence
1/   Corresponding to the fiscal year ending June 30.



(1965) and proceeded to decline steadily thereafter. By end 1982/83, net
foreign assets of the banking system had dropped to negative D 164 million
(US$63.5 million), equivalent to 70% of annual merchandise imports.
9.        In an effort to stem the growing deficits, the Government undertook
an IMF Stand-by program in February 1982 (SDR17 million) under which a wide
number of measures were taken, including the upward adjustment in producer
prices for groundnuts referred to earlier and in selected retail prices and
interest rates; limitations on domestic bank credit and external borrowing
were also undertaken. Given the persistence of public sector deficits and the
country's vulnerability to a downward shift in groundnut export earnings,
however, the Gambian Government will need to intensify remedial measures in
price policy and credit administration in particular in order to restore
financial stability. Towards that end, the Government is negotiating a
follow-up program with the IMF which it hopes to see in place shortly.
Investment Policy, Development Options and Constraints
10.      The generally weak performance of the Gambian economy in recent years
is in large part a consequence of persistent drought. Nonetheless, inadequate
attention was given in the 1970s to providing appropriate producer incentives
and the institutional environment necessary to stimulate agricultural
production. Also public investment policy through the 1970s neglected the
directly productive sectors, notably agriculture. Under the current Second
Five-Year Plan (1981/82-1985/86), the composition of the investment envelope
marks an important departure from earlier priorities in transport and
communications and places prime emphasis on the agricultural sector, which
accounts for 28 percent of total investment envisaged, as against only 16
percent of that realized in the First Plan period (1975/76 - 1980-81). The
Government further recognizes that the single crop, groundnuts, cannot be
relied upon as in the past to provide the resources needed to supplement its
normal budgetary receipts or to support adequately the country's foreign
exchange requirements.
11.      The options for diversification are limited and rest principally
within the agricultural sector itself. Scope for diversification is seen in
rice, cotton and livestock as well as in fisheries. Pilot schemes in
irrigated cropping, especially in rice, are being undertaken to alleviate the
foreign exchange burden of importing some 30% of the country's cereal
requirement. Commercialization of The Gambia's sizable livestock sector is to
be stimulated through a new pricing system and a major animal health and
breeding program with a view to expanding exports.
12.      Growth of the Gambian economy over the medium term, officially
projected to average 5% per annum, will continue to be governed by performance
in the groundnut sector. Longer-term prospects will depend heavily on the
Government's success in implementing the diversification measures in the
agricultural sector referred to earlier. Indeed, given the resource endowment
of the country and the size of the Gambian market, agriculture will continue
to be a mainstay of the economy through the foreseeable future despite
climatic irregularities and the severe institutional constraints which
characterize the country's rural sector. The Government therefore accords top



I        - 4 -
priority to the proposed Project, the largest single investment envisaged in
the agricultural sector through the mid-1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA
13.      To date, the Bank Group has made nine credits to The Gambia totalling
US$46.5 million equivalent. Of these, three were in the transport sector, two
in the rural sector and one each in the tourism, education, rural and urban
enterprises, energy and urban development sectors. Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits as of March 31, 1984.
14.      Project implementation and disbursement performance for the few
ongoing operations have been generally satisfactory and compare reasonably
well with other countries in West Africa with similar profiles. The most
serious problems encountered in project execution have been overall weakness
in project administration, including inefficiency in keeping project accounts
and difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified local counterpart
personnel. However, appropriate corrective action has been taken in agreement
with the Association whenever such problems have arisen. Moreover,
future IDA-financed operations, such as the proposed project, are being
designed with objectives better adapted to existing manpower constraints in
The Gambia.
15.      Until recently, Bank Group lending has been concentrated in expanding
and improving The Gambia's physical and social infrastructure which has been a
major bottleneck to economic growth. These efforts led IDA to finance an
education project in FY78, a highway maintenance project in FY79; and in FY82
an energy project for accelerating hydrocarbon exploration and power
distribution, and a rehabilitation project for the port of Banjul. The Bank
Group has also supported the Government's effort to develop small and medium-
scale rural and urban enterprises and build up The Gambia Commercial and
Development Bank (GCDB) as a financial intermediary.
16.      The Government's recent development strategy emphasizes
diversification of the economy and reduction of its dependence on groundnut
production through investments in the directly productive sectors,
particularly agriculture. Bank Group's current lending in The Gambia reflects
this priority. The proposed project, which is the third IDA - financed
agricultural operation represents the Government's largest undertaking in the
sector and is an important step toward agricultural diversification. Under
the project important policy and institutional reforms would be introduced to
stimulate production of food crops.
17.      In other sectors, a recently approved Urban Management and Develop-
ment project supports government programs aimed at rehabilitating major urban
centers. Population in the urban areas has grown almost twice the national
average of 2.8% in the last 10 years. This pace of growth has already
outstripped an inadequate network of roads, drainage water and sanitation
infrastructure. Under the urban project reforms would be introduced for a
more efficient management of the Greater Banjul area where two-thirds of the
total urban population live. Also, this project will demonstrate the



- 5 -
feasibility of extending basic infrastructure, low cost and affordable
serviced land and shelter to the bulk of the low income population. A
proposed DFC II project would assist the further development of small- and
medium-scale enterprises and strengthen GCDB. A Greater Banjul Water Supply
project would reinforce the water distribution system in the urban area and
provide technical assistance and training to the Gambia Utility Corporation.
Finally, a road maintenance project is also being prepared to improve road
maintenance capability of the Public Works Department (PWD) with emphasis on
regraveling poor sections of roads.
18.      The Bank Group's share of The Gambia's outstanding disbursed external
public debt has declined from a peak of 44% at the end of 1976 to 16% at the
end of 1982.
19.      In 1983, The Gambia became an IFC member.  IFC's first operation in
the country, a US$2.9 million loan to complete and open the Kombo Beach Hotel
in Banjul, which was left unfinished because of the bankruptcy of the
expatriate contractor two years earlier, was approved in October 1983.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Characteristics
20.      Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry contributes
about 30% of GDP and accounts for about 90% of earnings from domestic exports.
Also the country' major industrial activity, groundnut oil milling, is
agriculturally based.
21.      Groundnuts, raised by about 95% of the farmers, are the major export
crop, accounting for over 50% of the nation's cultivated area. Other impor-
tant food crops are millet, sorghum, and rice, the major food staple of the
population. Yet, Gambian farmers produce only about 70% of the country's food
requirements -- about 30,000 tons of rice must be imported annually.
Livestock and fisheries also have a significant potential for greater
exploitation and development. About 15% of the population own cattle and
almost all farmers keep small numbers of sheep, goats, and poultry, but the
livestock sector continues to be governed by a traditional husbandry system.
Government Objectives, Strategy and Constraints
22.      The Government gives high priority to agricultural and rural develop-
ment as the key element for economic growth and improvement in the standard of
living of its people. Thus, agriculture receives a large share of total
development resources. UJnder the Second Five-Year Development Plan (FYP),
Government expenditure for agriculture is projected to reach about US$57.0
million, or about 28% of total development expenditure.
23.      The FYP defines the principal agricultural objectives as:  (i) increas-
ing food production to raise nutrition levels and reduce imports; (ii) promot-
ing speedy recovery in groundnut production to increase foreign exchange earn-
ings and farmer income; (iii) furthering rural development and reducing
urban/rural income disparities; and (iv) diversifying food and export produc-



-6-
tion. These goals would be achieved by: (i) improving extension and support
services for farmers; (ii) making GPMB operations more efficient and develop-
ing farmer cooperatives; and (iii) providing support to seed multiplication
and crop protection. In addition, improved research would develop better
farming systems, integrate livestock with agriculture and lead to a better
understanding of the impact of climatic variation on crop production.
Furthermore, the FYP supports fair producer prices to farmers, while reducing
subsidies to help remove existing market distortions and enhance agricultural
production.
24.      However, in setting objectives and elaborating an agricultural
development strategy for The Gambia, several constraints must be recognized.
The physical environment causes large annual variations in crop production.
Rainfall is often sporadic and erratically distributed throughout a single,
short, wet season, while the Gambia river, potentially important for irriga-
tion, is tidal throughout its length in The Gambia and reduced dry season
flows permit salt intrusion as far as 270 km upstream. Institutional
weaknesses result in poorly organized and managed services to rural areas.
The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the Gambia Produce and Marketing Board
(GPMB), the main institutions in the agricultural sector, are constrained by
inadequate funds, a shortage of qualified and experienced managers, and lack
of vehicles. The Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU), the main source of
institutional credit, suffers from both a lack of management expertise and
vehicles, and has insufficient storage and marketing facilities. Labor
availability is also a constraint. While labor is underutilized in the off-
season, labor scarcity occurs in the farming season. With the growing
outflow of young able-bodied Gambians from the rural to the urban areas, the
problem has become more acute.
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
25.      The proposed project would be the third Bank Group lending operation
for agricultural sector development in The Gambia. The first operation, the
Agricultural Development Project (ADP) (Cr.333-GM) approved in 1972, was
designed to develop 3,000 acres of double-cropped irrigated rice along the
Gambia River. This project was completed in 1976 with two third of the land
planned actually developed for irrigation. Most of this was not double
cropped, as expected, for several reasons - poor rice pricing policy, weak
institutional arrangements, poor maintenance of the irrigation pumps. Paddy
yields were high and farmers increased their consumption of rice but market
surplus was less than expected. The Rural Development Project (RDP) (Cr.644-
GM) which followed in 1976, was cofinanced by IDA, the British Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) and the Arab Bank for African Development
(BADEA). It was completed in 1982. RDP aimed at increasing cereal and cash
crop production and livestock husbandry for about 48,000 people living in 65
selected villages. The project included credit for seasonal inputs and ox
cultivation, improved agricultural extension, training and research, increased
seed production, and project management. Livestock production was to be
increased through a vaccination program and improved livestock and veterinary
services and better livestock marketing.



- 7 -
26.      The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of this project, issued
in June 1983 (Report No. 4558), states that project outcome was mixed. RDP
generally succeeded in completing physical targets and in focusing Government
attention on the sector's issues. In addition, GPMB satisfactorily carried out
its project role as importer and supplier of fertilizer. On the other hand,
however, the civil works financed by ODA showed a cost overrun of over 200%
and crop production was below appraisal estimates. This was partly due to
several unexpected droughts which adversely affected production. However,
incremental crop production appears to have been somewhat overestimated at
appraisal. No benefits were obtained from dry cereals (sorghum and millet)
because no attempt was made to promote improved varieties. The project also
failed in promoting a viable cooperative system to handle credit, input supply
and output marketing, partly because it did not provide sufficient technical
assistance.
27.      Several important lessons were learned from RDP:  (i) more local
involvement is necessary during a project's planning stage to ensure adequate
commitment during implementation; (ii) given the important role played by
women in agriculture, particularly in rice cultivation, their activities
should be promoted; (iii) more attention should be given to the selection and
training of suitable extension workers; (iv) project design should make
greater allowances for the lack of management and administrative expertise in
The Gambia; (v) GCU and the primary cooperative societies require much more
attention than was given under RDP, since the cooperatives need to be
strengthened and financially rehabilitated to enable them to handle input
supply, credit and marketing more effectively; and (vi) there is need to limit
recurrent costs arising after project completion, since the Government could
not provide sufficient recurrent finance to sustain the level of development
achieved under the project. Despite these problems, the project has developed
the foundation and much of the infrastructure on which long-term agricultural
development can be based. The farming center, the seed production and crop
trials station at SAPU, the training center and the seed testing and veteri-
nary laboratories which were all established under RDP would be of substantial
long-term benefit for agricultural development if they could be maintained in
a fully operational condition.
28.      The proposed project's design has taken into consideration the pro-
blems and lessons of RDP. In addition, the Gambians took an active part in
preparing this project and accord its implementation high priority. Produc-
tion estimates for the proposed project are conservative and emphasis has been
placed on improving production and returns from upland rainfed crops by using
simple proven technologies. Assistance would be provided to strengthen support
institutions, especially MOA's Extension Services, and The Gambia Cooperative
Union (GCU). A civil work administrator would also be hired to closely
supervise the construction program in order to avoid cost overruns. Finally,
the proposed project has been design in such a way that recurrent costs will
be kept at a level which the Government can afford.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
29.      As part of RDP, funds were provided for a feasibility study for a
follow-up project. In 1978, based on results from this study, the Bank agreed
to the Government's request to assist in preparation of the proposed pro-
ject. Following several missions of the Bank's Resident Mission in West
Africa (RMWA) and reviews of working papers, a joint RMWA/ODA mission visited
The Gambia in October 1980 and assisted Government in preparing a final re-
port. A PPF advance of US$670,000 equivalent was granted to The Gambia to
finance a cooperative adviser for GCU (para. 39) and to facilitate an early
start-up in project execution. The project was appraised in September/October
1982 with participation from IFAD and ODA. The latter subsequently decided not
to participate in the financing of the project but agreed to provide some
interim financing for the research station at SAPU and 6 man years of techni-
cal assistance in agricultural research. Negotiations took place in
Washington, March 26-29, 1984. The Gambian delegation was led by Mr. A.
N'Jie, Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development. Delegations of IFAD and the Italian Department of Development
Cooperation also participated in the negotiations. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled, "The Gambia: Agricultural Development Project II," No. 4416GM,
dated April 20, 1984, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Annex III contains supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
30.      The proposed five-year project, which would be national in scope, has
three closely-linked major objectives: (i) to consolidate progress made under
RDP; (ii) to assist the Government with major sectoral reforms; and (iii) to
increase agricultural production of both export and food crops through
strengthening support institutions, improved input supply and improved
research and seed multiplication. The project would build on the experience
gained in RDP, paying particular attention to containing recurrent costs
during project implementation in view of the Government's financial
constraints. The proposed project would be less complex and more cost-
effective than RDP. In view of the country's stringent foreign exchange
situation and Government's decision to eliminate all fertilizer subsidies by
June 30, 1988, the project would assist the Government in financing 63% of the
cost of recurrent fertilizer import.
31.      The project consists of the following components:
(i)   Crop and Farm Development:  (a) increased production of upland
rainfed crops (e.g., groundnuts, rice, maize, cotton, sorghum,
and millet) through improved cultural practices based on simple
proven technologies and supply of agricultural inputs; (b)
strengthening of Sapu Agricultural Station's research capacity by
improving its links with other national and international
research institutes and providing buildings, vehicles, technical
assistance and operational support; and (c) establishment of a
comprehensive national seed program for groundnuts, rice, cotton,
and maize.



-9-
(ii)   Institutional Support:  (a) reorganization of MOA to allow a more
cost-effective integrated rainfed crop extension service at
village level by instituting a "Training and Visit" system with
fewer, better trained personnel and by providing building,
vehicle and technical assistance; (b) improvements to the
cooperative structure to enable more effective handling of input
supply, credit and marketing by providing vehicles, operational
support and technical assistance; (c) establishment of a strong
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); and (d) strengthening of MOA's
Project Planning Programme and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) to monitor
and evaluate the project.
Project Implementation
32.      The organizational structure which was developed under the first
project would be reestablished but modified on the basis of experience. MOA
would have overall responsibility for the project, but implementation would be
the direct responsibility of departments and organizations for which financing
is proposed. A Project Coordinating Unit would be established as an integral
part of MOA and thus subject to the controls and procedures of Government
departments. It would be responsible for overall project coordination,
monitoring of project activities in conjunction with PPMU, and maintenance of
project accounts and procurement. Reporting to the financing agencies would
also be the responsibility of the Unit. The Unit would consist of a Project
Director to be recruited locally, a Civil Works Administrator to oversee
building construction, also to be recruited locally, and a qualified and
suitably staffed accounts section, to be headed by an experienced expatriate
project accountant. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
qualifications and experience of the Project Director, the Civil Works
Administrator and the accountant would be acceptable to the Association
(Section 4.01(b),(iii),(iv) of the draft Development Credit Agreement
(DCA)). The establishment of the PCU as well as the appointment of the
Project Director and of the project accountant would be conditions of credit
effectiveness (Section 7.01(e),(h) of the draft DCA).
33.      To ensure a maximum degree of cohesiveness in the activities of the
various Ministries and Departments as well as Gambian involvement in the
implementation of the project, the following committees would be created: i) a
high level Project Coordination Committee (PCC) which would have ultimate
responsibility for project implementation. The PCC would be headed by the
Permanent Secretary of MOA and its membership would include: The Permanent
Secretaries, Ministries of Finance and Trade, and Economic Planning and
Industrial Development, the Secretary General in the President's office, the
Directors of the Departments involved in project implementation, the Managing
Director of the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) and the General Manager
of The Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU). The PCC would be expected to meet
every two months; ii) a Project Coordination Working Committee(PCWC), which
would handle coordination of agricultural development, input supply and
marketing. The PCWC, would be chaired by the Director of Agriculture and would
include the General Manager of GCU, the Project Director, and the Assistant
Directors, Extension and Research. It would meet more frequently than the
PCC; iii) Divisional Coordination Committees which would make sure that inter-



- 10 -
ministerial coordination is carried out also at the field level. The estab-
lishment of the Project Coordination Committee and of the Project Coordination
Working Committee would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
7.01e),f) of the draft DCA).
Agricultural Extension and Training
34.      Presently there are a number of different extension services for
upland cereals, groundnuts, irrigated rice, cotton as well as ox-training and
women's and young farmers club programs all providing advice to the one
farmer. Many of the extension staff are untrained demonstrators who find it
difficult to get the respect of farmers and have little access to technical
advice and help on more specialized topics. The diversity of services also
make it difficult to provide a coordinated approach to help farmers improve
their farming practice. Moreover, there is no effective link between the
research and the extension services. Under the project, MOA extension
services would undergo a substantial reorganization which would include
improvements to the chain of command, decentralization, and a unified, more
capable, but smaller, extension service. Reorganization would be phased in
close consultation with IDA. As a first step, the project would support the
merger of the various extension services for rainfed crops, ox-training, women
and young farmers clubs, into one smaller, but upgraded, service which would
be reorganized and run according to the principles of the "Training and Visit"
(T & V) system adapted to the conditions in The Gambia. Further reorgani-
zation and incorporation under one extension service of irrigation, rainfed
agriculture and livestock services would continue during project imple-
mentation. Improved research linkages would be developed through the "T&V"
system, improvement in reporting procedures, the off station trial programs
and closer coordination at the field level between the senior agricultural
officer and MOA's field research specialist (both would be member of the
Divisional Coordination Committee). In support of the reorganization of the
extension services, the project would fund buildings, vehicles, equipment,
operating costs and technical assistance. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would consult the Association prior to any
reorganization of MOA and that it would send to the Association its proposals
for the reorganization by no later than December 31, 1984 (Section 4.08 of the
draft DCA). Merger of the rainfed crop extension services would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the draft DCA). In the
interim, steps have been taken to improve the coordination between the
Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the Crop Protection Service (CPS) within
MOA.
35.      Substantial training would be provided under the project to achieve
the goal of a truly effective extension worker. An extension and training
specialist would be hired to oversee training programs within DOA, while a
manpower development officer, to be based at PPMU, would conduct a full
manpower study of MOA including an assessment of the implications of the
proposed reorganization. Under the extension and training specialist two
training groups would be formed, one for the eastern and one for the western
region. Subject matter specialists would be selected from existing agri-
cultural superintendents. At the divisional level, specialist inputs would be
obtained from the existing MOA staff. As a result of the reorganization



- 11 -
exercise, a number of MOA staff would become redundant (about 110 agricultural
demonstrators and 20 ox-ploughing staff). The manpower development officer
would prepare a program for retirement and redeployment of these staff. Peri-
odic training courses for middle- and senior management would also be orga-
nized in view of the shortage of trained managers in The Gambia.
Agricultural Research
36.      To help strengthen the research program, an experienced research
consultant would be hired to assist Government in preparing and reviewing
research programs, while a farming systems research economist, who would be
based at the research station at Sapu, would coordinate the work of the upland
crops and rice units which are already staffed by four Gambian research
officers, as well as develop a farming systems approach. Both staff would be
responsible to the Assistant Director, Research, and would liaise with PPMU on
farm management aspects. The project would provide funds for buildings,
vehicles, operating costs, and acquisition and testing of animal traction and
cereal processing equipment. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would prepare and submit to the Association for its
comments by no later than March 31 of each year the annual research program at
Sapu and its outstations (Section 4.09 of the draft DCA). Coordination with
research services in West Africa, particularly in Senegal, would be actively
pursued under the project.
Seed Multiplication
37.      The RDP established the nucleus of a seed production station, the
capacity of which would be expanded under the present project. The quality of
seeds provided by the Seed Multiplication Unit (SMU) under the RDP was
satisfactory but supplies were late (due to transport problems) and inadequate.
The proposed project would address these constraints. Quality controls for
both seeds produced at SAPU and seeds grown by contract growers would also be
improved under the project. A National Seeds Council (NSC), has recently been
set up under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary, MOA to advise the
Government on future seeds policies and guide the scheme's overall development
in response to national needs. To eliminate the current subsidy element in
the price of seeds, a seed pricing policy, based on the recovery of the cost
of processing and distributing certified and improved seeds, would be devel-
oped. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that such
a pricing policy statement would be submitted to the Association for approval
by December 31, 1984 and that the approved policy statement would be imple-
mented thereafter (Section 5.03 of the draft DCA).
Cooperative Development
38.      The Gambia has a Cooperative Union (GCU) and 62 multipurpose
cooperative societies. These societies operate 81 buying centers (seccos)
nationwide. GCU, through the cooperatives, is the major licensed buying agent
for groundnuts and distributor of agricultural inputs on behalf of GPMP.
Cooperatives are also the main source of institutionalized agricultural credit
in The Gambia. GCU is currently in financial difficulties due primarily to
the arrears in farmers' repayment of their subsistence, seed and fertilizer



- 12 -
loans. Because of severe drought conditions the rate of recovery on these
loans has been very low since 1979; however, inadequate staffing with
consequent poor supervision and lack of enforcement of repayments have also
contributed to GCU's deteriorating credit performance.
39.      An important feature of the proposed project is the organizational
and financial rehabilitation of GCU and the cooperative movement. This has
already begun with GCU and the Government working closely with the Association
in preparation for this project. A plan for the rehabilitation of GCU and the
cooperatives has been prepared with the assistance of an expatriate coopera-
tive adviser recruited under the PPF advance. Some of the proposals of the
rehabilitation plan have already been implemented. At GCU, the General Mana-
ger has been confirmed in his post and the management structure reorganized
and strengthened. Under the project, GCU's accounting system would be
improved and a management information system introduced for more effective
cost control. GCU personnel costs have increased considerably, but a ceiling
on staffing has now been agreed and a staff review would be carried out. With
regard to GCU's financial rehabilitation, the Government has agreed to a plan
acceptable to the Association which includes, inter-alia, proposals for a)
dealing with GCU's outstanding debt of D25.0 million; b) the removal of sub-
sistence credit; and c) the capitalization of RDP loan recoveries, including
the balance of the RDP Revolving Fund. Budgetary control systems have also
been introduced in the cooperatives and the management of the seccos is
expected to improve considerably with the increase in the number of Field
Coordinators employed by GCU.
40.      To provide support to the program for rehabilitation and strength-
ening of the cooperative structure, about US$3.2 million of the IFAD and IDA
funds and US$1.6 million of the Italian funds (a total of US$4.8 million)
would be relent to GCU to provide loans to farmers for farm inputs. In view
of the severe financial difficulties currently besetting the institution, no
interest rate would be charged on the loan, which would be repayable at the
end of 10 years. At that time Government would consider whether the long-term
loan should be converted into equity. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between Government and GCU covering the US$4.8 million loan would be
a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) of the draft DCA).
Input Supply and Credit
41.      Distribution and sales of inputs funded under the project would con-
tinue to be the responsibility of the cooperative structure. GCU would
purchase fertilizer and agro-chemicals from GPMB with funds provided under the
project. Cash sales of inputs would be encouraged, but seasonal credit,
mainly for fertilizer and seeds, and medium-term loans for animal-drawn equip-
ment, oxen, donkeys and small village rice mills, would also be made available
by GCU to members through their cooperative societies. GCU would charge
farmers a flat interest rate of 13% for seasonal credits. As the latter are
usually repaid within 9 months, the effective annual charge would be higher.
The interest rate structure was recently increased in The Gambia in connection
with the IMF-supported stabilisation program. Given the current inflation
rate of 11% in The Gambia (which is estimated to rise to 12% in 1985 and 1986
but to decline thereafter (para. 48)), the on-lending rate would be



- 13 -
positive. Medium term credit would also be available at 13% per annum, to be
repaid over five years, with a grace period of one year on principal. Agree-
ment was reached at negotiations that interest rates and margins to cover
costs would be reviewed annually with the Association and adjusted upwardly if
necessary (Section 5.04 (a),(b) of the draft DCA). The cooperative adviser
hired under the PPF advance is currently assisting GCU in establishing manuals
covering policies, procedures, terms and conditions for the provision of both
short and medium- term credit. Group lending would be introduced to further
reduce costs and to improve loan recovery. GCU would also review its lending
policies to ensure that both men and women have equal access to credit (women
are not members of cooperatives). Finally, to ensure that GCU has adequate
resources to carry out its lending operations, it was agreed at negotiations
that GCU would establish and maintain a separate Revolving Fund into which all
the farmers' loan repayments would be made (Section 4.06(a) of the draft DCA).
Marketing and Pricing
42.      The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), a wholly Government-owned
company, is responsible for handling The Gambia's agricultural exports
(groundnuts and cotton) and procuring agricultural inputs. It also imports
rice, markets the locally produced one, and operates paddy as well as ground-
nut processing facilities. GPMB heads the pricing committee which makes
recommendation to the Government on producer prices (groundnuts, cotton and
rice). This committee does not have a systematic approach to determining
producer prices or well defined pricing policy objectives. In the case of
groundnuts, this approach results in unstable producer prices which are mainly
determined by widely fluctuating world prices and the need to correct the
financial imbalances of GPMB.
43.      During negotiations it was agreed that consultants would be hired to
undertake a study of GPMP's operations. The study, to be carried out by
December 31, 1984, would include inter-alia: i) recommendations for the
achievement of the Government's agricultural producer pricing policy object-
ives including price stability, assuring maximum incentives to farmers while
assuring adequate margins to GPMB, and the promotion of optimal crop diversi-
fication; ii) a review of the existing institutional mechanisms for the annual
establishment of agricultural producer prices and the optimal timing of such
announcements; iii) a review of the impact of the elimination of fertilizer
subsidies on the use of fertilizer and the correlated need to adjust producer
prices; iv) determination of the scope for improving the efficiency of GPMB
and specific measures to achieve this goal; and v) recommendations as to the
appropriate measures to be taken in order to restore a crop stabilization fund
and to assure its financial viability. Assurances were obtained during negot-
iations that the Government would review with the Association the study's
recommendations and agree on an implementation schedule within three months
from the date of completion of the study (Section 4.10 of the draft DCA).



- 14 -
Recurrent Fertilizer Imports
44.      In view of the Government's stringent budgetary situation which does
not allow for the timely import of recurrent fertilizer, the project would
finance 63% of the necessary recurrent fertilizer imports. This assistance
would be provided while the Government implements its policy of gradually
eliminating fertilizer subsidies (currently at 60%) and carries out a major
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and of the cooperative
structure. Financing of recurrent fertilizer imports would be provided for
three years. Italian aid would finance the total national requirements of
urea and compound fertilizer, while the Government would finance the import of
super phosphate. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would allocate sufficient amounts of foreign exchange to meet the cost of the
import of this fertilizer (Section 4.01(b),(i) of the draft DCA). Assurances
were also obtained that the Government would gradually reduce and by June 30,
1988 eliminate fertilizer subsidies and announce the price adjustment for
fertilizer by no later than December 31 of each year (Section 5.02 of the
draft DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
45.      A new Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be set up in PPMU to
provide the Project Director and the PCC with regular and timely information
concerning project implementation. This unit would assist the Project
Director in taking appropriate action to speed up the implementation process
and make periodic adjustments if necessary. In view of the RDP experience, a
mid-project review would be essential. A major review of the overall project
performance would be carried out by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be
submitted to the Association by no later than June 30, 1986, paying particular
attention to progress with institutional reforms. Government would discuss
the findings of the review with the Association and agree on an action program
for the remainder of the project period by not later than October 31, 1986.
The Government's and the Association's agreement on the action plan should be
a condition of continuing disbursement on all project components except con-
tracts specifically approved by the Association before that date. Agreement
to this effect were obtained from Government at negotiations (Schedule 1 of
the draft DCA).
Project Accounts
46.      Annual budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements would be
prepared by the Project Coordinating Unit and would be submitted to the PCC
for approval. On the basis of the approved budgets, the Government would make
appropriate allocations in MOA's budget and release all necessary funds
quarterly in advance (Section 4.01,(b)(ii) of the draft DCA). The PCU would
maintain accounts for the project. However, because of the experience under
RDP an expatriate project accountant would be employed for the first three
years to ensure proper maintenance of project accounts and provide training to
the local accounts staff.



- 15 -
Technical assistance
47.      The project would provide 12 man-years of experienced expatriate
staff and 56.5 man-months of short-term consultancy services to assist MOA in
the following areas: (a) preparing and supervising MOA's training programs and
providing experienced guidance in the introduction of the "Training and Visit"
extension system; (b) establishing project accounting procedures and train
project accounting staff; (c) conducting a full manpower study of the Ministry
and preparing a program for retirement and redeployment of redundant staff;
(d) advising on a research program in various areas of crop research; (e)
organizing management training seminars for senior and middle level
management; (f) conducting a study on GPMB operations; (g) establishing
agricultural credit procedures; and (h) preparing a follow-up project. The
extension and training specialist (4 years) and the manpower development
officer (2 years) would be financed by Italian aid. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that these experts would be on post by December 31,
1984. The credit specialist is already on the job and the appointment of the
project accountant would be a condition of effectiveness. In addition to the
technical assistance financed under the project, ODA is providing 6 man-years
of technical assistance in agricultural research and seed multiplication.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that prior to engaging any consultant
or technical assistance staff: (i) detailed Terms of Reference for their
employment would be reviewed and agreed with IDA; (ii) the consultant's
reports would be reviewed with IDA to examine possible implementation
implications.
Project Cost and Financing
48.      Total project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties which would
be waived, are estimated at US$29.0 million, of which US$23.6 million is the
foreign exchange cost. A summary breakdown of costs is shown in the Credit
and Project summary at the beginning of this report. Cost estimates are based
on beginning 1984 prices. Local staff costs reflect the current civil service
scale and costs of US$100,000 per man-year for internationally recruited staff
are in accordance with prevailing market conditions. Physical contingencies
have been calculated at 10% for buildings, and 5% for vehicles, equipment,
non-labor farm inputs, and operational costs. Price contingencies are based
on estimated annual local cost increases of 11% in 1984, 12% in 1985 and 1986,
10% in 1987 and 1988 and 8.5% in 1989. Price contingencies for foreign costs
are based on assumed price increases of 3.5% in 1984, 8.0% in 1985, 9% in 1987
and 1988 and 7.5% in 1989.
49.      IDA would provide a US$9.4 million credit for this project. Jointly
with an IFAD loan of US$5.0 million, the IDA Credit would cover about 45%
(US$10.7 million) of the total foreign exchange costs. In addition, the
combined IDA/IFAD financing would cover about 69% of local costs. An Italian
grant of US$9.5 million would finance about 32% of the total project costs
while the Government would finance 17% (US$4.8 million) and farmers 1% (US$0.3
million) of the total costs. The Government's share in the financing of the
project development cost is only 5%, the remaining 12% covering the cost of
recurrent national fertilizer imports. Cross-effectiveness of IFAD's loan and
Italy's grant would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section
7.01(a) of the draft DCA).



- 16 -
50.      In view of financial constraints facing the Government, it would be
essential to prefinance some operational costs. Therefore, an amount of
US$500,000 from the IDA credit and the IFAD loan would be deposited in two
separate Special Accounts (US$300,000 for IDA and US$200,000 for IFAD) to be
held in foreign exchange at the Central Bank, promptly upon receipt of a
disbursement application from the Borrower. Opening of the Special Accounts
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01 (d) of the draft
DCA). The accounts would be replenished upon receipt of satisfactory evidence
for expenditures, provided such expenditures were eligible. Management of the
accounts and preparation of Statements of Expenditures would be the responsi-
bility of PCU's accounting section. Assurances were obtained from the
Government at negotiations that the Special Accounts would be operated under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02(c) of the
draft DCA).
Procurement
51.      Procurement arrangements under the project are summarized on the
following table. Goods and civil works would be under contracts awarded in
accordance with IDA procedures, on the basis of international competitive
bidding or local competitive bidding, except where otherwise agreed with the
Association. Contracts for procurement of technical assistance and consultant
services would be awarded in accordance with IDA procedures. All bidding
packages for ICB or LCB contracts over US$75,000 would be subject to the
Association's prior review of procurement documentation.



- 17 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Project Category             Procurement Method                Total Cost
ICB    LCB      Local      Other
Shopping
Production Inputs
Fertilizer                                          12.3 a/          12.3
Oxen and Donkey
Packages and Seeds             2.4                                   2.4
(1-4)                                 (1-4)
Vehicle and Equipment
Vehicles                 1.2                                          1.2
(0-7)                                       (0.7)
Office Equipment                          0.6                        0.6
(0-4)                      (0-4)
Building and Con-
struction
Houses and Stores              3.0 b/                                3-0
(2.2)7                                (2.2)
Consultants Services
and Technical Assistance                             1.6 c/           1.6
='(1 .o)         (1.0)
TOTAL
COST                     1.2   5.4        0.6      13-9             21.1 d/
(0.7) (3.6)     (0.4)      (1.0)             5.7 e/
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
Credit.
a/ Fertilizers and chemicals worth about US$8.0 million (US$1.6 million
incremental and US$6.4 million recurrent) would be procured by GPMB from
Italian firms under Italian tied aid arrangements. The remaining
fertilizer would be procured by GPMB under their own arrangements.
b/ Amounts are small and houses and stores are dispersed through the country;
they are not likely to be attractive to foreign contractors. Should ICB
be required, local bidders would be given 71/i preference.
c/ To be procured individually through reputable firms; Italian aid provides
technical assistance worth about US$0.6 million.
d/ Does not include price contingencies of US$4.6 million, local salaries of
US$1.2 million, operating and maintenance expenses at US$2.0 million.
Differences of US$0.1 million is due to rounding.
e/ Does not include price contingencies of US$2.1 million, local salaries of
US$0.5 million, operating and maintenance expensens of US$1.1 million.



- 18 -
Disbursements
52.      Disbursement of the IDA credit and IFAD loan would be on the
following basis: for production inputs, 100% of foreign and 95% of local
expenditures; for buildings, 100% of foreign and 70% of local expenditures;
for vehicles and equipment, 100% of foreign and 95% of local expenditures; for
local staff 30% of local expenditures; for consultant services 100% of foreign
expenditures; for operating expenses, 100% of foreign and 95% of local expendi-
tures. Disbursements for vehicles and equipment, expatriate salaries and
allowances, production inputs, would be made upon submission of full documen-
tation to IDA.  Other disbursements would be made against statements of expen-
ditures, which would be verified from time to time during project supervision.
Financial Implications for Government
53.      The project would generate government revenue in the form of
incremental foreign exchange earnings by GPMB and taxes from licensed traders
even though there are no direct taxes levied on the commodities that would be
produced under the project. In addition, secondary economic activities
induced by the project in construction, rice and groundnut processing and
trading, would also generate incremental revenues from direct and indirect
taxation. Government cash flow shows that the project would generate an
average annual net cash surplus of about Dalasis 2.1 million (US$0.6 million)
from PY1 to PY10. The annual contribution from Government to the development
costs of the project would average about Dalasis 0.7 million (US$0.2 million).
The recurrent costs of ADP II would be about Dalasis 1.3 million (US$0.4
million) at the end of the investment period and would cover mainly admini-
stration, extension and other services necessary for maintaining the produc-
tion levels achieved by the project. 1lj Thus, the incremental revenues are
expected to fully cover the recurrent costs of the project.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.      The major quantifiable benefit of the project would be the expansion
of cash and food crops. By full development, it is estimated that about
10,500 farm families would earn significantly higher incomes due to various
crop improvements and credit programs. As The Gambia is a net importer of
food, the incremental production would directly reduce imports. Incremental
production of groundnuts (estimated at Dalasis 15.4 million) and cotton
(estimated at Dalasis 3.6 million) 1/ would increase net foreign exchange
earnings. The world market for groundnuts is generally influenced by seasonal
fluctuations in world groundnut production. The incremental groundnuts export
due to the project would not be adversely affected by the world trend because
The Gambia enjoys strong traditional trading ties with EEC and the incremental
production would be too small to have any impact in the international ground-
nuts market. Additional employment would be created in other sectors by the
activities induced by the project. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is
estimated to be about 23%.
1/   Figures are in constant 1984 prices.



- 19 -
55.      Among the non-quantifiable project benefits would be an improvement
in the agricultural institutions due to the reorganization of MOA and the
rehabilitation of the cooperative structure. In addition, the existing seed
multiplication unit and agricultural research capacity in the country would be
strengthened.
56.      Since the project is a follow-up of RDP and is built on that
experience, normal risks associated with similar development projects are
minimized. The proposed agricultural techniques are simple and do not require
major changes in cropping patterns, thus associated technical risks are also
minimal. However, there remains a risk of a decline in crop production
because of natural calamities, such as drought, or other factors, such as a
decline in export prices, or fertilizer use below recommended levels due to
gradual phasing out of subsidies. These potential risks have been considered
in computing the estimated incremental crop production.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of The
Gambia and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.      Special features of the draft Development Credit and Project Agree-
ments are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III to
this report.
59.      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that: (a) the PCU has
been established and a Project Director has been employed and is in post; (b)
a project accountant has been appointed; (c) the Project Coordination Commit-
tee and the Project Coordination Working Committee have been established; (d)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Government
and GCU; (e) the Special Accounts have been opened; (f) the various depart-
ments or agencies providing rainfed crop extension services have been merged
into one single organization; g) the IFAD loan agreement and the Italian grant
agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary Government
action and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan and
the Italian grant have been duly fulfilled; and h) IFAD has appointed the
Association as cooperating institution to administer the IFAD loan (Section
7.01 of the draft DCA).
60.      A condition of disbursement for the credit would be that the
Government and the Association, at the time of the mid-term review, would
agree on an action program for the remainder of the project period (Schedule 1
of draft DCA).
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATI0N
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 25 , 1984



- 21'-                                                      Annex I
Page 1 of 5 pages
GAMBIA, THE               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GAMBIA, THE                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /e
MOST                         (MOSr RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT  /b           LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCCME
1960-L       1970,b  ESTIMATE-         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
AREA (THOUSAND SO. EN)
TOTAL                                   11.3          11.3         11.3
AGRICULTURAL                             4.0           3.9          4.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        90.0        140.0        370.0                254.6                       1147.9
ENERGY COSDN3'TION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          27.0         49.0         121.0                 79.8                       724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        327.0        450.0       604.0    682.0*).
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           12.4          15.0         19.0                 19.5                        28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                   0.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      2.9
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           28.9         39.8          52.3                29.5                         56.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                82.4        115.4        137.4                  94.:                       131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                             42.8         44.0          44.5                45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                             54.2         53.1         52.5                 52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                           3.0          2.9          3.0                  2.9                          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.0          3.2           2.7                  2.8                         2.8
URBAN                                  3.6           5.1          4.8                  6.2                         5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)               ..           ..         49.5                 47.9                        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)               ..           ..         27.7                 19.2                        15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    ..           ..          3.2                  3.2                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..         1.0
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          101.0         98.0          75.0                 87.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         110.0        101.0         97.0                 88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              63.0         58.0         58.0                 51.2                         56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            12.0         14.0         14.0/c               18.1                         17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             53.9         52.3          46.1                 25.7                        23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)              ..           ..         35.8                 47.4                        51.9
INFA-NT MORT. R.TE (PER THOUS)         222.3        216.5        196.2                126.5                        117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..        12.0            ..                 24.7                        25.4
URBAN                                   ..         97.0            ..                56.8                         70.5
RURAL                                   ..          3.0            . .                18.3                        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..            ..                 28.1
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                 65.7
RURAL                                    ..          ..            ..                21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             21800.0      22950.0      11470.0/d            27420.6                      12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               1420.0/e          ..      1650.0o7             3456.2                       2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                810.0            . .      810.0/f             1183.2                       1075.4
URBAN                                170.0/e         ..        170.071              380.6                        402.3
RURAL                               8220.07           ..      3890.07T             3177.5                       3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BE)                ..          ..            ..
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..         8. 3/g
URBAN                                   ,,          6.1/g                    ..
RURAL                                   ..          9.07           .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..            ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..            ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..            ..
URBAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _   _ _    _      _      _      _      _      _      _ _ _ -_ - _ -    _      _ - _- _ _- _ _- _ _- _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



- 22 -
Annex I
Page  2  of         3 rages
GAMBIA, THE             - SOCIAL INDCATORS DATA SHEET
GAMBIA, THE                           REPEREICE SROUPS (WEIMfED AVERAGES) (a
MOST                      (MST RECECIT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENtT             LOW INCOME             MIDDLH IlNlW
960/b     R1970-  ESTD4AT=         APRICA S. o0 SAHAR      AFRICA S. 0 SABARA
VOCATION
ADJUSTFD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    12.0        24.0        48.0                63.9                      97.2
MALE                    17.0        34.0        62.0                73.6                     103.1
FEMALE                   8.0        15.0        33.0                51.6                      88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    3.0         8.0        13.0                13.5                      17.2
MALE                     4.0        12.0        18.0                16.7                      23.5
FEMALE                   2.0         4.0         8.0                 8.1                      14.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)           1.4         3.6         3.3                 7.3                       5.2
PUPtL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0        27.0        24.0                46.4                      42.9
SECONDARY                          19.0        20.0        16.0                25.1                      23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               6.0/e         .        20.1                36.5                      37.1
OIDSUIT IOI
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           2.4         6.4          ..                 3.3                      18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUS4ND POP          6.1       111.1       110.0                45.3                      97.8
TV RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP               .           ..         ..                 2.2                      18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST!') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              4.6          ..          .,                 4.7                      1i.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..          ..          ..                 1.0                       0.6
LABOR FOCI
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           169.0       219.0       277.0
F6MALE (PERCENT)                   46.8        46.2        44.1               34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTtURE (PERCENT)             85.0        82.0        79.0                76.9                      56.8
TNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0         8.0         9.0                 9.8                      17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              51.7        48.7        45.8                40.9                      37.0
MALE                               56.2        53.5        50.6            .  53.0                       47.1
PEMALE                             47.4        44.2        40.9                28.9                      27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.9         1.0         1.0                 1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTIIlUJTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
POVERTI TARGT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..           ..              165.9                     534.2
RURAL                                ..          ..        95.0/c              87.4                     255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       185.0/c             100.8                     491.5
RURAL                                ..          ..        90.0/c              64.6                     188.1
ESTIMATFD POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                ..          ..          ..                39.5
RURAL                                ..          ..        40.0/c              69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mans. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1978; /e 1962; If 1976; /g 1973.;/ * 1982  data  of  the  1983  census  of  population
May 1983



- 23-                                                                             Annex :I
DFNTOSOF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                             Page   3  of  5  pages
Notes.:  Although the dano1I  11 are  oaeofro     Iorcseoral ly judged the most auhorttv   and relIabl, ft sh~ouldls  h e notd char they say rot be inteosaIoeaI ly
copsrahble bec..ut. of thelac  of etandardIloedbdot lInloeadcoepe                  dby dIferetouore   tocolet ogth  data   Th  dat  are,                         h noete ..s omeful to
de--ibe ....ers of aagitdo, iIndicate treod, and  hba-cter to crtal  maJor adi  -c     bet- oe                  ..
socbec   curyfaetfor "fitgh-tcoo    Oi  ootr'  ru.hr  'MiddleInoeNorth AIca aod Middl  East  I. choseo becaue of  -ragee sori.-..lturaI
aftftrttlet I.  Io rho ref oe-cs grou  dat  the  ccoe  Arepp            Rtot   egtd ha-t elc sa freachtoctrsdthose only  hb.s sajrity of l t                               ..ecosertesto
gro..p hat dera for chat ltdi toto.  Since the c-orrge of ooutreaaoo   the ir,dlcasoredepeeda or hn                   oiai thyofdata    to"o.aif...                catto _atb
AREA fth-o.saod sq.ha.f                                                                                Poea1tlaro    e   hyilc        Poaatndin,i,dedby  0-bo  of 1praettseg
Total - Tota  surfbac  orOa  -upncting lord alea ad inla-d sa tees  l960,                               pbscatqa  te   emaiodcisho7                         t =uie.fry leIe.
ff70 and 1980 data.                                                                                fpnlarios perr N-stog Persc  - PopuLlatt   dintded by smber of pssoo
.Agetta1tutal - Etsis-t  of uriulon            ..re  usd too.rorr-y or  -smaon  Ipsl   s   sai   rdae   as5-sisstnre   pr...ttraios.....s.I
foe oroos. pastures, oartot and hitchec gardona or to ~~~~~~~lie folios  ff80,        noring9uiiiarie..
1970 and  981  aa                                                                                   oalto    c  tosits  aod -  -os1, orbar, aed orat.  - PapaLattor (-erl,
ua,aerua   dirided by  bhtr  -especrine rsbey at hasptral bads
GNP PERa COPITd (U:L)   GNIP pen canirt  -shi-as   at curen  -ah pie,ssis.blirn public sod prirah   geteral sad syscttired bamptesl sad
caclaeby  taecoeso          ethad aa Wr,   at id    tlkas. (INt79-SI ba Ils                      rhbablirthao  errrs   Hospitl.s are  mabian                  peras-ly staffed
6bi, 1970, and ff81 dens,                                                                             bat les  ore..  phymiciar.  Estbifshcent  pr-idieg po.inrplly cstadie1
ENtRGY cONSMFtpIiON PtR CAPITA - Ar-ua  appun-r, cotousyi-c of casetamdi.1caltaters not perasooslystffedbyaphyscas,                                                      s  byasmttdi.
perrysegy  Ici and lignIte -, ptror,b  nooa   u   r   er, l-   -en     n-oea                     aIlor     us,adio    t.   hm ofri-s  etscda  ta  sd
cr      thra  slloctintry   il to hiogras  of ..oaI anutnaon  oa   o ia:p-ida                                        he    uneo   eia  facittis.    Co   ttsta  eaeoe
1960, if70, and 10980 data,                                                                            urban hspitala  irclude AdsHrO.       ialgreo          -opitrst, sAnd  -ara
hositas  focal  no .rural hopitis and  -edca  ar  stsooityoeteom
POPULATION ANT) VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                         SnlleAi      hbopi'tala  ar  icldd   rt  odr  otl
Totl o-      ltir  Mdya   toca    j-hal of July I; I h,p90  adieldaaaospe    opitl  e n-Ttadnslro  adsaostardohem
data,of                                                                                      fromo Ib-       ihosTEpiftals dioildd by rho nuaber of beds.
asogcort is;1  90,t0o,so ird        daa.1n9ae1to   o   auohldI eear  pr  ooebld  -toal  rba,IndNGa
,opolatlo  Projections                                                                                       S Atouenof  o-sarhof a groun.pbo,n hiaitaasaclitgtsro
Posaioi   er10       unn   ouaInProjertiI                      - rohad on 198i               ard t-hermlt m-l.J        Abadro-egosyorsyttb   slddi
toalpopula- io Y by  Agand sen an   ml  sdafn   aOtotiidyte  rarod   oraatstc   prat
ratr.   roectnoporseerafo  cora la  rtescoprie   f tre                            ooragnubeoofperon  p o  oomroat,orar.sa  easlsoeegb-dbe
nstt  fcooleel, o  t       In., lif-opnanyanh iengo-7.                                       daelltga,reapnthr-y.  Nel hgs etlud                to-e-raatotaeadd
.p~tonlog  peroRsoc.Oc   onr  Is .h.a signo  oth ofher  tie                            ~           Cocr oa   slinsor    loeryi                        igqutr   spretg
11: I;I ~  ~      ~      ha  aao,rcdospofcohen  lt0rrI fdjaedtrolIliato
eahg_  eainefuae   eiae   talFadrl.Th   ttirr                                                      oritoto  alaesa   h  piay  ee  a   srctgso                           frspo  r
fetiIt   rt  to  frtplaisetytni                                                                onresat   no a  edudaior  roclser   ap ptnee  lOl pece
ben  raIcor.      orlttonaciceg   .the  ea  ohm1I1~0 ardan tonlary                                   a. laet   o    uisac   ro    rho   h    ffttla  atae
porulanioc lentihy                                                                           education i I  El-reqtei tlatfu  yrsrs of  pporet  poia d iruraltos
For  q.hh. -  id-yar ppulaion   er oour    fltnoe ror    i   etrt   fpots  geerl,  oafn ,o   eto   oitgteecia    a
r.ora  reu tti      170  _rd  088.ata                                                                puil -ao ly of(   o1  yasoaecaosaarcoamso
ooy ffO,17   n o.ifly  .dt.                                                              foaronl  arile   Ip             h tnto   ecoayl      aatstisiai
pSplant   t  9b,  fO od -81daa                                                                     Poi-tetofa l        or1    b.  A.-pri-l   ad    acrdr-Ttli.oenser  ildt
yearie  pulanonfo    lb-h,b i         If-P  and"' ofn-ly                                            roapoding  leno-a.
Crude Brth hat  lear roound)- dcoIl line bIrths or thonoad.of  1id
year population; lOhO, ibtO, and ISAl duta. ly  CT.c                                           ytg hre liin
Cono  euh   at  fr   thusrd  -poso  durh   nr  houad   f  ldye                    Pa -ilng     - Car  fret rhcuaotdth pPuia-yj-psege   sacmrs
poptanlof; ith0  iYlb,  ardn tin     baa                                                            caa  eetoolsstannihtpesoariclde  ahoaced,hoom    a
00050feerductlr con-dnruge   uaho  of da hbor  a-lso oftil1 boa  tn                            ii tnopep nohtot.ai".
herto~l ryrauctutpero   fooeerocaprsn    c-pd-cHdintcirtIprtosn 20ralaVlocI - 1ndei typo Iofreero.                                                                       o   ai
1900.                                                                                          lin~~~'t  ers.odrecrnrirorreaatiaroarotgsohosfsa
of ihtrt-noryro Pcntnr  onden a-usp:Inan  ratThe    a  fasiy p....                                cator  aboishd....sin. l' t"-d
yog  10 nI0  " . -re~l  be tllu-hceoul= .InnofPP   dio froaIl,rt  u  tae,dfne   aaprota
Indroffo  roonin    erCynolon-Ifly-lroopropnapblnnordcco e-a;I  ro ornorl dine ggoenl n"a    tisdnir
aernoo  prkofIo.     f  i  fo Mdyb,r_,bcsFe inoto.  kyeodounioneloes  ned_uo                        nofha.du..y   if iu eA. s.at leastY  oarLtimesaeectFr.t
fedan   o   raloaryarhul.Cond resooo   otuy  od "g.g.                                       Cinesa  dotu   uto_acerI                                                     _alc   erTarBse    r  b  nmeru
coffr ad     lt-ar   I.luod.  oggr-gano proucton fl  ou,chcnryloieut.
huord. on  otina I   ooag   podce  pr7n 00 ghta   Ifb-gI,1070  ard1P-
dota.                                                                                     LodOt~~190  ltR  POOlY ISl
erergy   quloaln  of    r - od  uple Childrnab0le  trootype-a ia-eifet                                    anues Poedrbu  ronfdo   huetis td nts  t...                     eoo
6yellorts, sdoagaI   tc.stry1e                       ld   aniaa ki.feed, oerda                       nospasabtechnicbO, 1000 Ian  iOS  dr.1hcP-r.-b    ...j ~,
asaieson eereeadisaced  b  P10 hated) onPbynioicgln        f needs  oroo,ta                   hari  ottrefproc-Larfreinasog,fsy,btlgsd
age anditen dia60thonioo ofd pouain,adulsgtOpnntfrcaeauayIrroni-Lbrme    in                                                                      . aiig,cotoi    le,   sofrsr
at hosehol  iore 1 lhl-h , Ifl  andIA0-0 data -an  eicrtcrJ. oatee an rd gas                                                        - us pece Tage of rora  labo  foce  Inf
for-1'. Gsrt   -the1  ofrrra brs   o tdo-ylM -          grni  cnaoo  raruetaF01  ad AtOllh dinos.
Roqoires-ntafor  u1906 countries eashio rd  b  T -te          -tnie. ofo  nibs-                     Act tLty  rtesar  coat heasLotl,- sale, andl fe              le , laorfocea
Thi:rdpo l-orc  rodb19y60       t-s   00  n   Od   aa                                               too 1970osnIrttno  -acloo   p                  gutr    order. S. so  iad   reh
per carth Rts pro eIntel  frAnnol o-d ois  -1 irolo-d. aply of food                                   theR LONoflbrPr
donnRedprodoanst     l  and pulseCl, Inegrass par                                                                                   poday; 10h1-h5,V 1010c und 1071l
data.                                fISC0tf. I.. nt inbTntnr..                                         o411.....oo
On1laal   oleanatfothcatbOoulnuhrocooodo                                                      eoonreo.imteirsobthicahndhrl-sete   brcda 
athr9     ;160807   r  loot dots.,  I                                                                ahold  :he - tnor    oda t cons d  idOP obte cAutIon.      f      I       or-
lyea  o  ae  erthusn tcP11ins. nirhuans;  O     ) 00ad18  donon-Iolnr  poer    noe   e                                                 Id thn  yoey   .ose  hoo  hi-of a-dliba
-atnly     sells) so' p      .o..ue  othirepnlnyyiunt. n  0oRa_a   noeo  c    onry                                                          Vra  lend  is- done frosthb          rra
or  n  rsaotclod            tl   n  trdotl-oodnn  oothr10   oer                                       oo   ihajanot  o   ig  r  otoftotgi  uboasa
house   Intral ueateosonoleaceaso..d  iplynar nrhhuus.f...an  rural-"  Foetoe pulatln  fIhrnerlshaeasi
Ir-oful-dtea   foot  Ic--        ol-oHhen  uo7L_d0, roIn)rttdhcor
diapoaul uaporconnagosoodel  oo_pc_-n pop danon fpheron  dninynud
sa   rldrtenlisodflonan   nunti            ori u-thnurc    dra  -adt ofd                                                           hcoosnbrd   ocaldot lyilo
hara  roceta  nd oote-otarby  acorhorn   opaost  r th  ut.of.in.r.......olysi  an  Froen tns   oproe
rrlieaan                                                                                                         ifla  InlltiO                        My18



- 24 -
ANNU- _
P4c  4 of 5  gpe
Oo03S NATIONAL PRODUCT n  ti981h/2                                                                    F AI     nATz O W NORYH (. in constant ertol
Us an,                                                      L9/. tj~ Av .)     1980/81   IiWT82
NF? at kra*t Nieea                           223.2         100.0                                     0.2               -4.9        10.9
Sroeo Dometic Im..otat                        61.7          27.6                                    27.9               -2.3       -17.8
Groas National SO17.0                                        7.6
Current eoeact "lawo                        -4.7            20.0
Exporte of Gooad, 118                         61.7          27.6                                    11.               -40.7        19.6
Ioportn of "oads, NB                        -116.2          52.1                                     8.7               -9.6       -21.0
OUTT. LABOR roRnZ AND PRODUC IVITT 1 I 1980/a
VYlue Added                    Iabor Yoroe*  /                 V.A. Per Yo r
US1UNi.    -£                       hirn id-                        ur 
Agrioultuz                51.6        27.4                218.8     79.0                     235.6     34.7
ZAduatry                  26.6        14.1                 24.9      9.0                   1,068.3    157.1
erig                     1tO.2       I8-5                  33.2     12.0                   3.319.3    U8.7
Total/Average         188.3       100.0                277.0   100.0                     679.8   100.0
CENIRAL GOTU0T FIJAN0C
Daloais Mm.               Pereent of 0D3
Current Yleeipts                  88.3                18.0              20.4
Current Nxpenditar              -113.5                23.1              19.7
Current Surplas                  -25.3                 5.1               0.7
Capital Zrpedtuz'e               -71.2                14.5              12.6
Overall Balanoe                  -96.5                23.0              11.9
External Asuistance (net)         88.9                18.1              10.9
YOM, CREDIT and PRME
t                           ~~~~~~~~~~~1979/80 , 1980/81      198t/62
Killion Daela     Outstanding nd-Pi
'oney end Quani Nosey                         74.1              87.0           98.8
Claima on Public Sector                       84.6             104.5          130.0
Claims on Privato 8ector                      91.6             104.1          106.9
(Percentace. cr Index Nuabere)
Monqy end Quadi Xoney
ac S of CDP                                 18.3              20.8           20.1
General Price Index (1976/77 * 100)          124.5             137.0          148.1
Anna l Percetate Cbanre. In:
General Prioe Index                            5.0              10.0            8.1
Clail. on Public Sector                       61.8              23.5           24.4
Claims on rrivate Sector                      25.5              13.6            2.7
lotet All conversions to dollars in thin table are at the avorage exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
2/ Pical year *oding June 30.
2/ Labor force in 1980.



ARmA I
25                                                Paso~~~~~~~t     5 Of 5   _-v
- 25 -                                                                  WiT~
"AM2E. P        Dt    UM CAPYAL  n
DAWN o0                                                                                                     mxuman   Om I (AVUAGU It9T9    - 1961 M2) .
I 975tT6-I976/7                o              2.E!2                                                        U38 Em         A
Cro_aimat ?r*Aat.                  20.8        56.1
Imports af  ee                           65.9 -                           105.        .7                      Orcodauta (abelad)              (12 2)  (55.1)
rmports of G a  13                      -73.6                  -169.2            -116.2                      Oil  ae:a)2
*e..urce Cap (ae at -)                  - 7.9                  - 63.7            - 54.5                      Cake                              2.2)
Interest Paata (net)                      1.6                    -I.E              -5.3                    l  ° and Fisl  nr?od.t.             3.o          8.1
Worker, Remittmane                       -1 .2                   -4.5              -3.3
Othcr F ctor Pepueta (met)               -0.4                    -2.3              -2.8                    All other Coiwdities  /            13.3 55
Not ?re,ef*r                              2.3                    15.               19.1
Balance on Curreat Leo-t                 -5.4                   -56.0              -44.7                        70tcl                         37.1        100.0
Direct Poreim Inve                        1.2                    -1.5                5.9
let N A L/S Borrei                       2.7                    22.4               15.3
Disbursenta             (-3.0                              (22.51              .IMIAL DM. December 31  1960
Amortizatim                        (-0.3)                  (1)                                                                                     s wlm
Capital Greats                            0.4                     9.9              11.2
Other Capital (et)                       -1.5                    4.2                2.8                      Public Debt, incI. anarateed              218.3
Other Item  ni.e.                         3.0                    17.1             -10.3 7on-Cuarant*d Private Debt
lotel Outatandtig and Diabara             95.4
Not Change Iee,. (+ - iaro-s,)             0.4                  -14.3             -19.7
lot Reserwe  (sad yew)                   63.7                   -36.4            -115.7                    DEM  suvict RATIO FM 19eo 21                  1
Paol end Related Netortal*                                                                                   Public Debt. incl. guarmateod              1.1
'on-Guarant;ed Private Debt
Imports                              4.7                    15.4               6.3                      lotal Outstauding end DiLbarse             1.1
of whicb: Petreleum               (4.1)                  (14.1)             (6.6)
import.
of whiob: Petrole                   -                       -                 -                     iRD/IDA INWDIOG *a of April 30. 1903
RATe OF EXCIAGI                                                                                                                                         fI    -IDA
Outatandisyand Diebermed                   -      23.8
USsi .61/Jhleei                         2.26                    1 .72             2.29                     Uodimbusa..                                 -       3.5
Outstanding inol. Uadiabtear               -      27.4
rf mports recorded l Ceatoom _12.
2/ Other do_etic exports and r owdad ra-eqerte.
R fatio oo  debt service 196  to exorts of goode ad mom-tactor aerviae  19mM.
Augmt. 1953



- 26 -
ANNEX    II
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA*
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1984)1/
Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               (US$ million)
Number     Year    Borrower              Purpose                  IDA     Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed.                                    19.38
814-GM     1978  Republic of      Rural and Urban
The Gambia      Enterprises Project             3.00        0.03
897-GM     1979  Republic of      Highway
The Gambia      Maintenance Project             5.00        1.64
1187-GM    1981  Republic of      Energy Project                  1.50 3/    0.63 4/
The Gambia
1266-GM    1982  Republic of      Second Banjul Port
The Gambia      Project                         6.50 3/    3.33 4/
Total                         35.38        5.63
of which has
been repaid                  0.18
Total now held by IDA 2/      35.20
Total undisbursed                          5.63
I/  This list does not include Cr. 1443-GM, Urban Management and Development Project
for US$ 11.5 equivalent which was approved by the Board on March 6, 1984, but has
not yet been signed.
2/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/  US$ equivalent computed at the rate of approval date.
4/  Undisbursed balance computed at the March 31, 1984, rate of one SDR= US$1.06420.
* The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal Year   Obligor                        Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1983          Kombo Beach Hotel Ltd.         Tourism Hotel        2.9        -        2.9
Total Gross Commitments
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                           2.9        -       2.9
Undisbursed Balance                                0.0        -        0.0



- 28 -
Annex III
THE GAMBIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:               September/October 1980 -
September 1982
(b) Project prepared by:                         Ministry of Agriculture assisted
by RMWA and ODA staff
(c) First IDA mission to consider project:    June 1980
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:   September 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:          March 1984
(f) Planned Date of Credit effectiveness:        July 1984
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Actions to be taken by the Government
1)       i) Appoint a civil work administrator acceptable to the Association
to oversee the project building/construction program; ii) by December 31, 1984
establish Divisional Coordination Committees in each Division (paras. 32 and 33);
2)       By December 31, 1984 present to the Association proposals for the
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture (para 34);
3)       Submit to the Association for its review and comments, by March 31 of
each year the annual research program for the agricultural research station at
Sapu and for its outstations (para. 36);
4)       By December 31, 1984 submit to the Association a pricing policy
statement for certified and improved seeds (para. 37);
5)       Cause GCU to establish and maintain a revolving fund into which all
farmers' loan repayments would be made (para. 41);
6)       Review annually with the Association and IFAD the adequacy of GCU's
interest rates and interest spread to cover costs and cause GCU to implement
ally necessary adjustment in interest rates (para. 41);



- 29 -
7)        Carry out by December 31, 1984 a study of GPMB's operations to assist
in the improvement of its operations, including its pricing mechanism (para. 43);
8)       Eliminate fertilizer subsidies by June 30, 1988 and also announce the
price adjustment for fertilizer by no later than December 31, annually
(para. 44);
9)       Allocate annually sufficient amounts of foreign exchange to meet the
cost of recurrent fertilizer imports (para. 44);
10)      Allocate the project's cash requirements in MOA's budget and release
all necessary funds quarterly in advance (para. 46);
Condition of disbursement
Following the mid-term review to be carried out by June 30, 1986,
agree on an action program with the Association for the remainder of the
project period by no later than October 30, 1986 (para. 45);
Conditions of effectiveness
11)      Establishment of a Project Coordinating Unit and appointment of the
Project Director and the project accountant (para. 32);
12)      Establishment of the Project Coordination Committee and of the
Project Coordination Working Committee (para 33);
13)      Merger into one single organization of all rainfed crop extension
services (para. 34);
14)      Execution and delivery of the subsidiary loan agreement between
Government and GCU (para. 59);
15)      Opening of two Special Accounts (para. 59);
16)      Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
IFAD loan and Italian grant (para. 59);
17)      IFAD to appoint the Association as Cooperating Institution to
administer the IFAD loan (para. 59).






N'  ~~~~~~~                                           TATWRFC-----------------                                                                                                                                       I T   BIRDlo 8T2
K   N'             '-     ~    ~ ~                             -:                         TAFRT MAE~ 
E  N                                                     IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'A                                                                                                                                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
S  E                N                                        G       //          A              \       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               CE   
/    /                                                                                       ''I                          /1             T'-AAN-
-R-'-T-  H  N   K, ~     ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                       J-         A~ANETA,
N[                                                                                              -A'"'  ANTNTI!                                                                               'J
IJKj                            'TeT I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1 I                                                                                          /L~Z
I A~~~~~~~~,.A    0   w ~ ~ ~      ~        ~       I~!N,                             
Blr'--'-V 
'A  /~ ~~A
s  E  N                                G                                                                                           DE VE LOMA P-N T   PPGJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N   
NAT INC  A                                                                                                                                                           N ANNA~~~~~~~~~~ANI
'-'-N                                                                                                                             NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  5  0l~1NHL.U,TR
J                                                                                                                                           m  ICA                  N
S                                                                                                      I                                                          DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT~~~~~~~~~A,I
C~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N'  ON
I   'C9 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    -       r  "N'' A ~



