Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4416-GM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
April 20, 1984
Western Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Currency Equivalent 1/
1 Dalasi      =      US$0.3
3.5 Dalasis   =      US$1.0
Weights and Measures
1 hectare (ha)      =    2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)    =    2.2 pounds
1 metric ton        =    2,204.6 pounds
1 sq. kilometer          0.386 square miles
Abbreviations
ADP II  =  Agricultural Development Project II
ARAB    =  Agricultural Research Advisory Board
BADEA   =  Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
CS      =  Cooperative Societies
DEC     =  District Extension Centers
DOA     =  Department of Agriculture
GCU     =  Gambia Cooperative Union
GPMB    =  Gambia Produce Marketing Board
FYP     =  Five Year Development Plan
IDA     =  International Development Association
IFAD    =  International Fund for Agriculture and Development
LRD     =  Lower River Division
MFC     =  Mixed Farming Centers
MLGL    =  Ministry of Local Government and Land
MOA     =  Ministry of Agriculture
MID     =  MacCarthy Island Division
NBD     =  North Bank Division
ODA     =  Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PCC     =  Project Coordination Committee
PCU     =  Project Coordinating Unit
PPMU    =  Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (MOA)
RDP     =  Rural Development Project
SMTu    =  Seed Multiplication Unit
URD     =  Upper River Division
USAID   =  United States Agency for International Development
WD      =  Western Division
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
1/     The Dalasi is pegged in relation to the pound sterling (£) which is in
turn floating in relation to the US$; these rates are market rates at
the time of project negotiations and are used for the purposes of this
draft of the report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARRY ................................  iv-vi
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ......... ..................... .                            1
A.   Introduction  . .........              .... .  ..........................        1
B.   Sector Background  . ................................                           1
C.   Agricultural  Sector Characteristics                      2..............*      2
D.   Agricultural Institutions and Services  ................                        4
B.   Roads and Communications  ......................  ..... ..                      6
II.   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STRAGEGY                      .........................      7
A.   Potential and Constraints  ......................*.......                       7
B.   Development Objectives and Strategy  ...................                        8
C.   Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy  .................                        8
III.   THE PROJECT  .........................................................    10
A.   Project Objectives and Description ...................    10
B.   Detailed Features  . ............. .    ..................... .    11
C.   Cost Estimates  ......            ..............................  .....    14
D.   Proposed Financing  ........ ............... ....... .... .    15
E.   Procurement  . .......              ........................ .0. .......    16
F.   Disbursements  .. ........... ...  .................. ..... .  .    18
G.  Accounts  and Audit  .... ................................    19
IV.    PROJECT EXECUTION  . ...................................... .                         19
A.   Project  Organization  .................................    19
B.   Agricultural Extension Services  and Training  ...                    ......    20
C.   Agricultural Research  . ..................... ........... .    23
D.   Seed Multiplication  . .......... *.*. ..................... .    24
E. Gambia Cooperative Union and
the Cooperative Movement  ................... .                .......      25
F.   Pricing and Subsidies  . ....... ..... .          .......... .    ........ .    29
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation  ....................                  *.......    30
H.   Reporting    ...........................................                       31
I.  Mid-term Review .............................................                   31
V.   PRODUCTION TECHNIQUES AND SPECIFICATIONS                          .................    31
A.   Crop Development  ......... . . . .. .   ................... .... *.. ..... . *    31
B.   Production  Specifications             ............   .     ................    32
C.  Farm Labor ........ *........................                                   34
D.  Yields  and Production  ........ .   ................................    34
E.   Environmental Considerations  ...........                    ...............    36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)          - ii -
Page No.
VI.  DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAI ANALYSIS .........  36
A.  Demand .     .......................... ...................  36
B.  Marketing ........................ ....................  36
C.  Prices ........  ................... ...................   37
D.  Financial Returns to Farmers ..... .. ..................   39
E.  Financial Implications on Support l'nstitutions   .......  39
F.  Financial Implications for Government .................  39
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    ........... ...................   40
A.  Overall Benefits .     .    ............. ...................  40
B.  Economic Rate of Return ..............................   40
C.  Risks and Sensitivity ....  ....... . ....................  41
VIII.  AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS, AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....... .......  41
TABLES IN THE REPORT
Table 1    Project Cost Summary
Table 2    Proposed Financing Plan
Table 3    Procurement Arrangements
Table 4    Field Extension Services
Table 5    Yield Assumptions
Table 6    Incremental Crop Production
Table 7    Economic Farmgate Prices
ANNEXES
1.   Project Costs
2.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
3.   Crop Area and Crop Production With and Without Project
4.   Crop Recommendations, Yields, and Labor Requirements
5A. Crop Budgets per ha at Full Development
5B. Indicative Farm Models
6.   Government Cash Flow
7.   Table 1  Economic Costs and Benefits
7.   Table 2  Economic Analysis: Internal Rate of Return,
Sensitivity Analysis
8.   Project Implementation Schedule
9.   National Fertilizer Imports
MAPS
Map IBRD No. 16862 Project Area



- iii -
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Selected Documents and Working Papers on File
A. Selected Reports and Studies
Al.   Preparation Report for an Agricultural Development Project (Vols. I
and II) - Government of The Gambia, December 1980
A2.   Studies Relating to Marketing and Pricing Policies for Agricultural
Produce and Inputs (Vols. I and II) - Staff and UNDP/FAO Project Gam
77/001 October 1981
A3.   Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development 1981/82 - 1985/86
- Government of The Gambia, 1981
A4.   The Gambia, Food Strategy Report (Vols. I and II) - Government of
The Gambia, March 1981
A5.   Management and Financial Accounting Consultancy Progress Report Nos
1 and 2 - P-E Consulting Group, June 1979
A6.   The Rice Industry in The Gambia (Vols I and II) FAO, October 1983
A7.   Assessment of the Food, Agriculture and Livestock Situation in The
Gambia - FAO/WFP, December 1983
B.  Selected Working Papers
B1.   Agriculture and Crop Development, J. Cole
B2.   Agricultural Extension and Training, J. Cole
B3.   Agricultural Research, J. Cole
B4.   Seed Multiplication, J. Cole
B5.   Agricultural Credit and Cooperative Structure, R. Headworth
B6.   Project Organization and Management, R. Headworth
B7.   Monitoring and Evaluation, Consultant/N. Okidegbe
B8.   Infrastructural Development, Consultant / R. Headworth
B9.   Project Costs - Development and Recurrent, N. Okidegbe
B10.  Financing Arrangements, N. Okidegbe
Bl1.  Reporting Procedures, N. Okidegbe
B12.  Economic Prices, N. Okidegbe



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiary:           The Gambia Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Amount:                SDR 8.9 million (US$9.4 raillion equivalent)
Term:                  Standard
On-lending Terms:      Up to SDR 3.0 million (IFAD and IDA) and US$1.6 million
(Italian Aid) would be re-lent to the Gambia Cooperative
Union (GCU) for 10 years, interest free. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
Project Description:  The proposed project wou:Ld:  (i) consolidate progress
made under the Rural Development Project (Cr. 644-GM)
and address constraints which emerged during its imple-
mentation; (ii) assist the Government with major
sectoral reforms; and (iii) improve production of
rainfed export and food crops. Specifically, the
project would: establish a project coordinating unit
and a monitoring and evaluation unit within the MOA;
strengthen the research capacity at the Sapu Agricul-
tural Station; strengthen the existing Seed Multiplica-
tion Unit (SMU) and establish a comprehensive national
seed program; assist the reorganization of the Ministry
of Agriculture and strengthen the country's cooperative
structure. The project wrould also support the Govern-
ment's efforts to phase out fertilizer subsidies by the
end of FY88 by financing part of the fertilizer imports.
Two special accounts would also be established under the
project to expedite disbursement.
Benefits and Risks:   Principal quantifiable benefits expected from this pro-
ject would be derived from the incremental production of
groundnuts, cotton and food crops. Annual incremental
production at full development would be about 13,200
tons of groundnuts, 2,10C) tons of cotton and 7,900 tons
of cereal. Non-quantifieLble benefits include improvemnt
in agricultural instiutions. There are no major techni-
cal risks associated with the project as all technical
proposals have already been effectively demonstrated in
The Gambia or other ecolcigically similar West African
areas. However, a risk remains of a decline in crop
production either due to natural calamities (e.g.,
drought), or a decline in export prices, or fertilizer
use below recommended levels resulting from the gradual
phasing out of subsidies.



- v -
Estimated Project Costs: 1/
(US$ Million)
Local    Foreign    Total
1.  Crop and Farm Development                     0.7       3.2        3-9
2.  Extension and Training                        0.7        2.5       3.2
3.  Agricultural Research                         0.7        1.2        1.9
4.  Seed Multiplication Unit                      0.5        0.9        1.4
5.  Cooperative Development                       0.7        1.1        1.8
6.  Project Coordinating Unit                     0.2        0.6       0.8
7.  Project Monitoring & Evaluation Unit          0.2        0.3       0.5
8.  Refinacing of PPF 2/                           -         0.7       0.7
Total Baseline Costs                          3.7      10.5       14.2
Physical Contingencies                        0.2       0.5        0.7
Price Contingencies                           1.5       2.4        3-9
Subtotal Project Costs                        5.4      13.4       18.8
Recurrent National Fertilizer Imports          -       10.2       10.2
(for three years)
Total Project Costs                           524 3-.6            290
1/ Net of Taxes which would be waived.
2/  The PPF advance finaces consultant architects for the project's civil work
program, the finacial and cooperative advisors; and The Gambia Cooperative
Union's (GCU) credit program. It also provides bridging financing for
SAPU's research and seed multiplication program.
Financing Plan
Percentage of
Foreign    Local    Total        Total Project Cost
IDA                             6.4       3.0       9.4                32
IFAD                            4.3       0.7       5.0                17
Italian Aid                     8.6       0.9       9.5                33
Government                      4.3       0.5       4.8                17
Farmers                          -        0.3       0.3                 1
Total                    23.6        5.4      29.0               100



- vi -
Estimated Disbursements
FY85 1/    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual                 1.6         1.2      1.7     1.8      1.5     1.0      0.6
Cummulative            1.6         2.8     4.5      6.3      7.8     8.8      9.4
1/ Includes an advance of US$670,000 under the Project Preparation Facility.
Economic Rate of Return: 23%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4416-GM dated April 20, 1984
Map:



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01     The First Rural Development Project, RDP, (Credit 644-GM) included
funds for a feasibility study of a follow-up project. However, in 1978,
Government requested and the Bank agreed to assist preparation of the second
phase, as a result of which a mission from the Bank's Resident Mission in West
Africa (RMWA) visited The Gambia in April 1978 to initiate preparation.
Following several RMWA missions and reviews of working papers, a joint
RMWA/ODA mission visited The Gambia in October 1980 and assisted Government to
prepare a final preparation report. The project was appraised in September/
October 1982 by a team consisting of Messrs. R. Headworth, J. Cole, N.
Okidegbe (IDA); D. Heffer and Ms.M. Haswell (ODA); and Messrs. R. Janakiram
and D. Shoesmith (Consultants). Mr. S. Oluwade of IFAD participated in the
appraisal. An ODA team was in the field at the same time to appraise an
interim project for ODA financing.
B. Sector Background
1.02     General:  The Gambia is a small but densely populated country with
about 682,000 inhabitants occupying a narrow strip of land on both sides of
the Gambia river, forming an enclave of about 10,400 km2 inside Senegal.
Economic growth has stagnated over the past seven years, averaging only 1% of
GDP a year during that period, and incomes per capita have been seriously
eroded. Per capita GNP is estimated at US$370 (1981). The Gambia is a poor
country with limited economic potential, its large agricultural sector heavily
dependent on irregular rainfall concentrated in a short period of the year.
Agriculture and livestock currently account for about 80% of employment but
little more than 30% of GDP, about half of which is attributable to ground-
nuts. However, production is erratic, which results in considerable fluctua-
tions in the economy's overall performance as well as in Government revenue
from year to year, and has contributed to current economic and financial
difficulties which the country is experiencing. There are no known
exploitable mineral resources.
1.03     Out of a total population of about 682,000 inhabitants, the rural
population is estimated at 500,000, of whom about 90% are illiterate, distri-
buted in about 41,000 farming units. Growth is estimated at 2.7% per annum
(2.3% in rural areas). Average population density is 44 persons/km2 but with
over 40% of the soils marginal or unsuitable for agriculture, the effective
density is close to 90 persons/km2 and reaches higher levels in some areas.
With improved communications and the drift towards urban areas, the tradi-
tional extended family system is breaking down. The Mandinka are the dominant
ethnic group in the rural areas (40% of the total population) particularly in



Western, Lower River and North Bank Divisions, while the Fula (18%) concen-
trate in MacCarthy Island and Upper River Divisions, and the Wollof (16%) in
Banjul. The remaining 26% are mainly smaller ethnic groups and "strange"
(immigrant) farmers coming in from nearby countries.
1.04     Physical Environment:  The Gambia lies across the Sudan-Sahelian zone
and the climate is characterized by a long dry season and a short, five month
wet season (June/October).  Mean annual rainfal , which declines from over
1,000 mm in the southwest to 800 mm in the north, is highly variable both
within and between seasons. Average monthly temperatures vary between 22' and
31°C. The climate is suitable for groundnuts, cotton and rainfed cereals.
About 54% of soils are suitable for agriculture, ranging from alluvial soils
subject to flooding around the river, through a transitional strip of
colluvials to the main area of ferruginous, upland soils. Soils vary in
texture from sandy, through clay loam on higher ground to heavy clay alluviums
on river flats. (See Working Paper 1)
C. Agricultural Sector Characteristics
1.05     General Characteristics:  The agricultural sector remains compara-
tively undeveloped. Production is based almost exclusively on about 41,000
small farms (about 0.5 ha/adult) which are primarily subsistence farming
units. Cropping, which is mainly rainfed and limited to about five months a
year, is dominated by groundnuts (about 100,000 ha). Swamp rice and a small
irrigated rice area (2,300 ha) are important in the central and eastern
Divisions where salt intrusion through the river Gambia is more limited.
Cotton (2,500 ha) is also of increasing importance in the eastern area. A
mixed intercropping system predominates and yields are low at 500 to 800
kgs/ha for cereals and about 1,100 kgs/ha for groundnuts, although the drought
which occurs every 4-5 years may reduce crop yields by about 40%. Production
of major food staples covers only 70% of the country's food requirements and
about 30,000 tons of rice are imported annually. The hand hoe remains the
basic tool but use of animal drawn implements is steadily increasing. Ox
cultivation was introduced in the 1950's and there are now about 8,500 pairs
of oxen or one for every five farms throughout The Gambia. In addition,
increasing use is being made of donkeys and horses. Labor is underemployed
for much of the year but seasonal strains and labor scarcity occur during land
preparation, weeding and harvesting periods. A traditional land-tenure system
persists with farm families enjoying usufructuary land rights.
1.06     Livestock contribute less than 5% to GDP but, together with fish, are
an important source of animal protein. About 15% of the population own cattle
and almost all farm compounds keep small numbers of sheep, goats, and poultry.
Livestock are kept under a traditional husbandry system with low produc-
tivity. Cattle population was estimated at about 320,000 head (1980) with an
annual growth rate of about 3%. Offtake rate is about 7%. The stocking rate
of cattle is high at 50 per km2 which places considerable pressure on scarce
land resources especially in the dry season. The potential for export of the
trypanosomaisis resistant N'dama breeding stock is good.



1.07     Farming System:  Under pressure of increasing population and a break-
down in the extended family system, the traditional "slash and burn" cultiva-
tion is giving way to a more settled system with shorter fallow periods.
Consequently, there is an increasing depletion of already low natural
fertility, and need to address the problem of raising organic matter and soil
nutrient levels. A typical farming unit of 10-12 people cultivates 4 to 5 ha
of upland under a usufruct system of land tenure and usually in fragmented
plots. Main rainfed crops are groundnuts, maize, millet and sorghum; rainfed
rice is grown in depressional seasonally flooded areas, while in Lower River
and MacCarthy Island Divisions cultivation of fresh swamp and mangrove rice is
carried out, primarily by women. Vegetables and cassava are grown in the
Western Division (easy access to Banjul) but production of cassava has fallen
with the advent of pest and disease problems. The major cash crop is ground-
nuts, but with rising cereal prices there has been some substitution by
millets. In the Upper River Division, cotton production has partly substi-
tuted for groundnuts encouraged by an assured supply of inputs provided by a
project supported by the African Development Bank through 1980. Field pests
(millepeds on groundnuts and blister beetles on millet) and bird damage,
together with cereal storage pests cause significant crop losses. While in
the past groundnut production has fluctuated with rainfall, in the last ten
years there has been a marked downward trend with production falling from the
peak of 145,000 tons in the mid-1970s to a low of 60,000 tons in a severe
drought season of 1980/81. In 1981/82 there was some recovery with production
rising to about 90,000 tons. In the past, farmers have relied too much on
GPMB for seed supplies which were retained in poor conditions at cooperative
buying points (seccos) resulting in low germination and low plant popula-
tion. Since 1981/82, Government provided farmers with one free bag of
fertilizer for every two bags of seed retained by them. This encouraged
farmers to make better use of village seed stores for retention of their own
seed. As a result of these efforts in addition to adequate rainfall and
increased acreage, groundnuts production increased to about 150,000 tons in
1982/83. About 40% of the groundnut area and 15% of the cereal area is
fertilized. Use of improved rice varieties is increasing through the Seed
Multiplication Unit financed under RDP, but little impact has been made so far
on quality of groundnut seed due to organizational problems.  These problems
would be addressed under the proposed project.
1.08     Labor:  The main labor supply is from the family but this is
supplemented seasonally by immigrant workers from neighboring countries who
are allowed to cultivate groundnuts and, more recently, rice, in return for
their labor. A breakdown in the traditional extended family system and
decline in immigrant workers has led to labor shortages. Use of animal trac-
tion is increasing with farmers obtaining equipment both on credit through
development projects and also by direct purchase in. Senegal; there is now
increased use of oxen, donkeys, and horses. Women work primarily on cultiva-
tion of rice and in assisting with cultivation and harvesting of upland
crops. The increasing demand for cereals and resulting increases in cereal
production is making considerable demands on women for hand-pounding, which
could be alleviated by small village grain mills.



-4-
D. Agricultural Institutions and Services
1.09     Government Ministries.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is the main
institution for agricultural development. Its responsibilities include crop
extension, training, research, engineering, tractor ploughing, animal health
and production, the activities of the Department of Cooperation, Gambia
Cooperative Union (GCU), and the Cooperative Movement. A new Ministry of
Water Resources and the Environment was established in mid-1980, when the
Departments of Fisheries, Forestry and Irrigation were separated from the
Ministry of Agriculture.
1.10     Agricultural Extension and Training Services:  Agricultural Extension
and In-Service Training Services comprise a Division of the Department of
Agriculture (DOA). Agricultural Officers at divisional level supervise a
number of separate extension services for upland cereals, groundnuts, irri-
gated rice, cotton, as well as special ox-training, and women's and young
farmers club programs. There are also separate fertilizer and cereal programs
financed respectively by FAO and the UN Sahelian Office. Farm level services
are based on twenty five Mixed-Farming Centers (MFC) where agricultural assis-
tants and ox-training teams are located and demonstration plots maintained.
Farm-level staff include 78 agricultural assistants and 302 demonstrators; a
total of one per 109 farm family units. LittLe transport is available and
operating budgets have been cut severely. The different services lead to
unnecessary and costly duplication. In addit-lon, crop protection services are
provided by a separate Department within MOA, as are animal health and
extension activities under the Department of Animal Health and Production. A
separate Extension Aids Unit, which was developed under RDP, reports directly
to the Permanent Secretary, MOA, since it provides services to a number of
different Departments. A small training unit provides in-service training in
the field and at the Jenoi training center built under RDP. Plans have been
prepared for reorganization of MOA, particularly DOA, with the objective of
providing farmers with a streamlined, cost-effective service (para. 3.07).
1.11     Agricultural Research:  Agricultural Research is carried out by the
Departments of Agriculture, Animal Health and Production, and Crop Protec-
tion. Coordination is provided by the Assistant Director for Research and
Special Services, who is convenor of the Agricultural Research Advisory Board
(ARAB) which is responsible for coordination and monitoring of research within
MOA. ARAB includes representatives from extension, crop protection, other MOA
Departments and water resources (hydromet). Agronomic research was originally
carried out at Yundum, Western Division, but with the introduction of rice
production, a research station was opened at Sapu (MacCarthy Island Division),
and later strengthened under RDP to include screening, input responses, and
crop production trials for upland crops and rice. While work on rainfed and
irrigated rice has been developed successfully, the upland crops program,
starting from a weaker base, has made little progress. Since environmental
conditions at Yundum are not typical of many of the important production
areas, MOA decided to make Sapu, which is more representative and centrally
located with easy access to all the major ecological zones of the country, the
main research station for The Gambia. A number of donors have already
assisted the development of Sapu and efforts are underway to develop a master
plan and achieve better coordination of development at the station.



1.12     The need to develop a systems approach and provide research services
with capacity to carry out off-station and farmers field trials has been
recognized as a matter of high priority. Rice research has been more success-
ful using off-station trials and close collaboration has been maintained with
the West African Rice Development Association (WARDA). New rice varieties
have been identified and multiplied by the Seed Multiplication Unit, however,
satisfactory varieties tolerant to cold and saline conditions have still to be
identified. Improved varieties of groundnuts and maize have been identified
and, together with cotton, successful production packages formulated.
However, little progress has been made with traditional crops of sorghum and
millet. Work on animal traction equipment has led to modification of equip-
ment to suit The Gambia conditions and practices. Coordination between
agronomic and crop protection research is good, as is the link with the Mixed
Farming Project which, under the Department of Animal Health and Production,
is carrying out work on integrating livestock and agriculture. Links have
been developed with International Research Institutes, in particular, the
International Crop Research Institute in the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), the
Semi Arid Food Grain Research and Development program (SAFGRAD) in Upper
Volta, and the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in
Nigeria. These links need to be strengthened and better links developed with
national research institutes in neighboring countries, especially Senegal.
1.13     The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB):  GPMB is wholly govern-
ment-owned, and has one subsidiary, the Gambia Produce Company of London,
Ltd., which runs GPMB's export sales and procures agricultural inputs, mainly
fertilizers. GPMB has sole responsibility for marketing groundnuts, rice, and
cotton. It also imports rice and operates paddy processing facilities. For
primary marketing, GPMB relies on Licensed Buying Agents, mostly cooperative
societies but also some from the private sector. The cost of subsidies on
rice and fertilizers was financed out of Stabex funds for groundnuts, and GPMB
reserves. This is a drain on its resources, which, compounded by the recent
fall in the world market prices of groundnuts has placed GPMB in a financially
vulnerable position. In addition, GPMB operational and administrative costs
need to be reduced and the marketing network (including the licensed buying
agents system) improved. However, in 1983 the Government removed subsidies on
imported rice and made a public commitment to eliminate fertilizer subsidies
by the end of 1987/88 fiscal year. These actions would have a positive impact
on GPMB. A study of the marketing system is necessary to find ways to
reorganize GPMB and make it more efficient (para 4.27).
1.14     The Cooperative Movement:  Cooperatives were first registered in The
Gambia during 1955 when the Department of Cooperation (DOC) was established.
Since then, the Cooperative Movement has evolved following the membership of
primary societies, which in turn are affiliated to their national apex organi-
zation, The Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU). The Cooperative Movement, through
GCU and its 62 registered multipurpose primary cooperative societies covering
81 buying centers (seccos), provide national coverage. GCU, through the
societies, is the major licensed buying agent for groundnuts and distributor
of agricultural inputs on behalf of Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB).
The Cooperative Movement is also the main source of institutionalized agricul-
tural credit in The Gambia. A USAID Project is supporting the Cooperative
Movement by providing member education and a literacy and numeracy training



-6-
program. In addition, an ILO Project for the Strengthening of Cooperative
Education, Training, and Management has been operating since 1981. Both
projects are expected to continue for several years.
1.15     Agricultural Credit:  The main source of institutionalized agricul-
tural credit is GCU and the Cooperative Societies. Most of the lending has
been for subsistence, seeds, and fertilizer credit, issued under criteria set
out by Government and relating to area under cultivation and crop production,
but not taking into consideration generally accepted practices for lending,
such as creditworthiness or security. In the earlier years, collections were
good but during 1977/78 to 1979/80 there were two bad cropping seasons out of
three, which had disastrous results on loan repayments and credit disci-
pline. During the last two years, however, the recoveries performance im-
proved considerably and steps have been taken to establish a more efficient
credit system. There are only two other souroes of institutional agricultural
credit, one of which is the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB)
which was established in 1972. Government owns 52% of the share capital with
the remainder divided between GPMB and GCU. GCDB has benefitted from a US$3
million line of IDA Credit. It has about 170 loans outstanding for agricul-
ture, mainly to larger farmers, and secured with balances totalling about
Dalasis 7 million. Partly due to shortage of funds but also due to poor
recoveries, GCDB has significantly reduced its lending operations since
1981. This has especially affected the agricultural sector which has tradi-
tionally been the major beneficiary of GCDB lending. GCDB is likely to be
extremely cautious in any future lending to agriculture. The other lending
institution is the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) which was established
in 1981 with an authorized share capital of Dalasis 3 million, the major
shareholder being Government (51%). Very few loans have been issued for
agriculture and the role of ADB in the agricu:Ltural credit system has not yet
been clearly defined. ADB is unlikely to be able to reach the small farmer
level countrywide or to have any real impact on the agricultural develop-
ment. Finally, an important system of non-institutionalized agricultural
credit exists, mainly through traders, relatives and friends, but very little
information is available on lending through those channels.
E. Roads and Communications
1.16     A paved road on the south bank of the Gambia river runs the length of
the country linking Banjul to Basse in the east. Main feeder road links to
this access are reasonable but access to more distant villages is difficult in
the wet season. On the north bank, communications are more difficult with
laterite roads and inadequate ferry or bridge crossings across tributaries of
the Gambia river. At no point is the Gambia river bridged, but several
ferries connect the north and south banks with main access at Banjul and Jenoi
-- the latter is part of the trans-Gambia highway -- and by a number of
smaller ferries upstream. The river, an important means of communication, is
navigable throughout the year. The Gambia River Transport Company and smaller
boat owners handle crop movement and Government operates a mail and passenger
service between Banjul and Basse.



- 7 -
II. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
A. Potential and Constraints
2.01     The Gambia's economic development is linked closely to growth of the
agricultural sector which employs about 80% of the population and accounts for
the majority of exports. In years of normal rainfall, the country has the
potential for producing local cereal needs, significantly increasing groundnut
production and diversifying output (cotton and livestock) for both export and
home consumption. However, agricultural growth is constrained by several
factors, including physical environment, social factors, and institutional
weaknesses.
2.02     The physical environment constitutes a major constraint.  Large
annual variations in crop production occur due to variability and erratic
distribution of rains in a single, short wet season. The Gambia river, poten-
tially an important natural source for agricultural development, is tidal
throughout its length in The Gambia, but reduced dry season flows permit salt
intrusion as far as 270 km upstream. However, the impact of the climatic
constraint could be minimized by the introduction of short duration crop
varieties and animal traction both of which would be done under the project.
That would speed cultivation, and reduce risks of failure of upland rainfed
crops. In addition, further development of irrigation (Jahaly-Patcharr and
the proposed Gambia river bridge/barrage) could provide some security in
cereal production, although at considerable cost, in the longer term.
2.03     Social factors constitute another constraint.  Agriculture is far
more a way of life than a means of making a living and social structures
impinge upon agricultural production in both technologies used and land tenure.
Extended family and social obligations mitigate against accumulation of land
and capital. A complex hierarchy ensures the well-being of the community as a
whole at the expense of significant individual advance. Although undoubted
social benefits are derived from such a system, it *tends to hamper the devel-
opment of an agricultural entrepreneur. A high rate of urban drift and
reduced inflow of migrant labor from nearby countries has further exacerbated
the problem of labor shortage. Improved technology including animal traction
provides an approach for increasing labor productivity.
2.04     The third major constraint is institutionaL weaknesses.  Services to
the rural areas are poorly organized and managed, both by institutions
directly related to agricultural production and those concerned with providing
general services. Steps such as preliminary reorganization of the cooperative
societies and an assessment of cost implications of the proposed MOA reorgani-
zation, are currently being carried out in an effort to overcome this
constraint.
2.05     Although agricultural development in The Gambia is restrained by
those and other factors, including shortage of qualified and experienced
management expertise, insufficient transport and storage facilities and
inadequate budgetary allocations, working within these contraints there are a
number of possibilities for promoting agricultural development through a well-



structured strategy.
B. Development Objectives and Strategy
2.06     The Gambia's Second Five-Year Development Plan (FYP) for 1981/82 to
1985/86 gives top priority to the development of agriculture and sets objec-
tives of: (i) increasing food production so as to raise nutritional levels
and reduce imports; (ii) achieving speedy recovery in production of groundnuts
so as to increase foreign exchange earnings and farmers' incomes; (iii) press-
ing ahead with rural development and reducing urban-rural income disparities;
and (iv) diversifying food and export crop production.
2.07     In developing a strategy for achieving those objectives, equal
importance is given to raising cereal and groundnut production, with cereals
(particularly maize and irrigated rice) expected to rise by 20% and groundnuts
by 23% over the Plan period. In addition, cotton production is expected to
more than double. These goals would be achieved through: (i) improved
farmers' support services, including better extension services; (ii) more
efficient GPMB operation, and development of farmer cooperatives; and (iii)
direct production support in seed multiplication and crop protection. Also
improved research would develop better farmingP systems, integrate livestock
with agriculture and lead to a better understanding of the impact of climatic
variation on crop production. An increase in producer prices when eliminating
subsidies would help to remove existing markelt distortions, enhance food
production and improve nutrition.
C. Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
2.08     IDA has financed two projects in the rural sector.  The Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 333-GM, US$1.3 million, 1972) developed 1,200 acres
of double cropped irrigated rice. It also promoted successfully irrigated
rice research. About 1,600 farm households benefitted directly from the
project; net farm income rose and the economic rate of return was estimated at
22%.
2.09     The second operation was the Rural Development Project (RDP) (Credit
644-GM), the total cost of which was US$11.7 million, financed by IDA,
UK(ODA), BADEA, and contributions from farmers. The project became effective
in November 1976, and closed in March 1982. It aimed to increase cereal and
cash crop production and livestock husbandry of about 48,000 people living in
65 selected villages through the introduction of proven package programs for
crop production supported by better coordinated and strengthened Government
services, and improved communications and marketing. In addition, the project
included the establishment of a Seed Multiplication Unit, expansion of agri-
cultural research services, development of a limited number of crop extraction
roads, a pilot functional numeracy program, provision of funds for a second
phase agricultural development project, and studies into methods of improving
groundnut marketing and of Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) accounting
procedures.
2.10     The Project's performance and impact were mixed.  The performance was
generally good in physical achievements, in mcbilizing farmers, and motivating



-9-
extension staff. The Gambian Produce Market Board satisfactorily carried out
its role of importer and supplier of fertilizer to -the project. However,
project performance was not good in several other areas. The expatriate
Project Coordinator was unable to maintain adequate local commitment during
project implementation. The civil works which were financed by ODA had a cost
overrun of 228%. The project did not attempt to promote improvement in dry
cereals (sorghum and millet). A viable cooperative system to handle credit,
input supply and marketing of output was not achieved. While crop production
was below appraisal estimates (54% for groundnut, 12% for rice), the ex-post
economic rate of return still reached about 7%.
2.11     Important lessons have been learned from the Rural Development
Project. Details are contained in the PCR and PPAR of May 1983 and the major
lessons were: (i) there is need for more local involvement in the planning
stages to ensure adequate commitment during implementation; (ii) the promotion
of women's farming activities is important; (iii) more attention should be
given to the selection and training of suitable extension workers; (iv) there
is a lack of adequate management and administration expertise in Gambia; (v)
Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) and the primary cooperative societies require
much more attention than was given in RDP; there is need to strengthen and
financially rehabilitate the cooperatives to enable them to handle input
supply, credit and marketing more effectively; and (vi) there is need to limit
recurrent costs after project completion, since Government could not provide
sufficient recurrent finance to sustain the level of development achieved
under RDP.
2.12     The design of the proposed project has taken into consideration the
problems and lessons of RDP. The Gambians took active part in the preparation
of the proposed project and would take full responsibility for its implemen-
tation (para. 4.02). Production estimates under the project are prudent and
the emphasis is on improving production and returns from upland rainfed crops
based on simple proven technologies (para. 3.04) with due attention to women
farmers. Assistance would be provided to strengthen support institutions
specially GCU (para. 3.08) and MOA Extension Services (para. 3.07).  Finally,
infrastructure and recurrent outlays have been kept to a bare minimum, steps
have been taken to avoid cost overruns, and project performance would be
evaluated in-depth during a mid-term review (para. 4.31).
2.13     The proposed project is considered to be the best option for The
Gambia at this stage of its development. It has been chosen among different
alternatives in light of the current and foreseeable! economic circumstances of
The Gambia. The project conceived during preparaticin was scaled down by
removing livestock and irrigation components; infrastructure and unnecessary
technical assistance were reduced; and recurrent costs were minimized so they
would not be a burden to Government (see Annex 6). In addition, the proposed
project would support Government's strategy by: (i) reorganizing agricultural
extension services to upgrade village level extension staff and provide for
lower cost with more effective services; (ii) reorganizing of cooperative
societies for the provision of inputs, credit, and crop marketing; and
(iii) developing of stronger links between research, seed multiplication, and
extension. Reduction of crop losses and further expansion of animal traction
to raise productivity are also to be encouraged. ADP II would complement
activities of other donors.



- 10 -
2.14     Diversification, to develop integration of livestock and agriculture,
which is being promoted through the USAID-supported Mixed Farming Project, is
likely to continue, as will efforts to promote cotton production which was
supported by the African Development Bank project through 1980. Recently, the
Jahaly/Patcharr Smallholder Irrigation Project supported by IFAD, Germany, and
Netherlands bilateral assistance, has been started to develop irrigated rice
production. These projects deal with the problem of extending improved tech-
nology (as did RDP) and also crop diversification. However, the need for
reducing the cost of services provided by the MOA and strengthening the input
supply system still remain and would be addressed under the proposed project.
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.01     The proposed five-year project has three closely linked major objec-
tives: (i) to consolidate progress made under RDP and address constraints
that emerged during its implementation; (ii) to assist Government with major
sectoral reforms; and (iii) to increase production of upland rainfed crops
through strengthening support institutions, improved input supply, research
and seed multiplication. The project would build on the experience gained in
RDP and pay particular attention to recurrent costs containment at the end of
the project implementation period in view of Government's financial con-
straints. The proposed project would be less complex, taking into considera-
tion The Gambia's limited managerial absorptive capacity, and more cost-
effective, than RDP; it would promote import-substitution, enhance efficiency
measures in the agricultural sector and would give incentive to the Government
to carry out major changes in sectoral institutions by financing part of the
recurrent costs of fertilizer imports. A special feature of the project would
be a mid-term review of project performance ('para. 4.30).
3.02     The project would extend improved agricultural services throughout
the country, and, at the end of the project period, extend its benefits to an
additional 10,500 farm households. Its prudent target would be to generate at
full development an incremental annual production of about 13,200 tons of
groundnuts, 2,100 tons of cotton, 3,000 tons of paddy, 3,800 tons of maize,
1,100 tons of millet and sorghum.
3.03     These objectives would be achieved through the following project
components and actions:
(i)  Crop Development:  (a)  increasing production of groundnuts,
maize, rainfed rice, cotton, millet and sorghum through improved
cultural practices and greater usea of inputs; (b) developing and
strengthening the research capacity at Sapu Agricultural Station
and improving links with other national and international insti-
tutes, (c) completing the establishment of a national seed
multiplication program for groundnuts, rice, cotton and maize;



- 11 -
(ii)  Support Institutions:  (a) assisting with reorganization of
Ministry of Agriculture field extension services, creating an
integrated rainfed crop extension service at village level. The
"Training and Visits" system would be introduced, and staff
training would be increased; (b) strengthening and supporting the
development of primary marketing societies into multi-purpose
self-financing farming services organizations including the
establishment of farm input delivery, sales outlets, and credit
facilities; and (c) strengthening the Project Coordination Unit,
and the Project Planning and Monitoring Unit to monitor and
evaluate the project;
(iii) Recurrent Fertilizer Imports: assisting Government by financing
63% of the recurrent fertilizer requirements of the agricultural
sector over a three year period ending by June 30, 1987, in view
of its current foreign exchange difficulties.
B. Detailed Features 1/
3.04     Crop and Farm Development.  The main focus of project activities
would be on improving production and returns from upland rainfed crops of
groundnuts, rice, maize, cotton, sorghum, and millet. These improvements
would be implemented through a reorganized extension service, combined with
farmer training and supported by a restructured cooperative movement for the
supply of inputs and credit. Considerable emphasis would be placed upon basic
cultural practices based on proven technologies, more effective use of animal
drawn equipment, timely planting, improved plant population and more effective
use of fertilizers. The project would provide financing for farm inputs to be
distributed by GCU. Over five years these inputs would include 6,650 tons of
fertilizer, 1,239 tons of seed, 990 oxen pairs 3,300 "oxen packages", (animal
drawn equipment) and some hand tools. The technological base for the Project
is described in Chapter V and in Working Paper No.1.
3.04a    Government intends to reduce fertilizer subsidies from 60% in 1984 to
zero by the end of 1987/88 fiscal year. The fertilizer price adjustments
corresponding to the elimination of fertilizer subsidies by June 30, 1988
would be determined annually after consultation with IDA and announced not
later than December 1. Assurances to these effects were obtained from
Government during negotiations.
3.05     Agricultural Research.  The project would provide for continuation of
research initiated under RDP, with increased emphasis on farming systems and
upland crops, and would concentrate its support on: (a) strengthening the
research unit at Sapu; (b) developing a capability to conduct off-station
trials in farmers fields; (c) identifying improved planting material adapted
to the conditions and needs of The Gambia; and (d) improving contacts with
relevant national and international agricultural research institutes in West
Africa. Funds would be provided for buildings, vehicles, operational costs,
1/   For further details see Chapter IV on Project Execution and the
relevant working papers.



- 12 -
acquisition and testing of animal traction and cereal processing equipment.
ODA is providing interim financing for 18 months and a farming systems
research economist for three years to maintain on-going work at Sapu. The
project would fund an experienced research consultant (3 man-months annually
from PY3 to PY5). Further details of the research program are in Working
Paper No. 3.
3.06     Seed Multiplication:  The project would provide funds for the Seed
Multiplication Unit (SMU) established at Sapu under RDP. This unit has the
capacity to multiply groundnut, rice, and maize seed to meet the requirements
of the country through production of foundation. and registered seed on the
Sapu Station, and certified, and in the case of groundnut, improved seed
through contract growers. ODA is providing interim financing for eighteen
months (October 1982 to March 1984) and a seed processing and marketing
specialist for three years. The project would finance replacement vehicles,
field equipment, office and laboratory equipment, incremental local staff
costs, implement shed and drying floor, and four and a half man-months
consultancy assistance on specific technical problems. Subject to a review
which would form part of the preparation of a Sapu master plan (para. 4.03),
the seed processing equipment would be resited near to the upland research
unit to reduce congestion on the lower part of the station. Further details
are in Working Paper No.4.
3-07     Agricultural Extension Services and Training:  The project would fund
buildings, vehicles, equipment, operational costs, two administrative posts,
and technical assistance in support of the reorganization of the extension
services, Department of Agriculture (DOA). The Extension Aids Unit would also
be provided with funds for replacement of mobile visual aid vans for the
village-based farmer training program, printing and photography equipment, and
acquisition of relevant films. An agricultural extension and training
specialist would be funded for four years, together with 12 man-month con-
sultant support to introduce the "Training and Visit" system and train Gambian
staff in its implementation. Specialist technical consultancy support (3 man-
months) for review and advice on visual aids and other technical aspects, and
(6 man-months) for management training course f'or staff in The Gambia.
Further details are in Working Paper No. 2.
3.08     Cooperative Development and Credit:  Major emphasis would be given to
the development of Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU), its member societies, and
the Department of Cooperation, as part of the Government supported rehabili-
tation of the cooperative movement. Project funds would be provided for
buildings, vehicles, equipment, operating costs, and, where necessary, for
additional staff. The principal project investmLents for Gambia Cooperative
Union would be concerned with strengthening the credit structure, to encourage
the adoption of crop packages. A cooperatives Adviser has already been
recruited under a Project Preparation Facility and would be funded under the
project for three years. However, during the project's life, use of credit
would be more strictly managed in accordance with criteria stated in para 4.21
and cash sales expanded by adequte pricing incentives. The Primary Multi-
purpose Cooperative Societies (CS) would be prcvided with funds for storage
facilities and equipment at 38 seccos (buying stations). To help avoid losses
at seccos, caused by dust and other materials, funds would be provided for



- 13 -
rods on secco screens to be reset in accordance with Gambia Produce Marketing
Board (GPMB) requirements. The Department of Cooperation (DOC) would be
provided with funds for a house/office, motorcycles and operating costs.
Funds would also be available for courses and seminars for cooperative
members.
3.09     Distribution and sales of inputs would continue to be the responsi-
bility of the cooperative structure. Under RDP, this service was not always
satisfactory as there were delays in the supply of inputs but improvement
through better coordination, would be introduced during this project.
Fertilizer and agro-chemicals would be purchased from GPMB by GCU with funds
provided under the project. Equipment purchased under the project would be
distributed for cash or on credit to farmers. Full details of cooperative
development and credit are in Working Paper No.5.
3.10     Recurrent Fertilizer Imports:  The Government's present foreign
exchange situation makes the timely allocation of resources for recurrent
fertilizer imports highly difficult, which could threaten agricultural
production country wide. This situation calls both for immediate but short-
term assistance. The Government has already agreed to, or is implementing a
number of measures aimed at reducing distortions in the agricultural sector
which would be complemented by the forthcoming arrangement with the IMF. It
was therefore agreed that, under the project, Government would be provided
with the financial relief it needs to finance 63% of the necessary recurrent
fertilizer imports. This assistance, however, would be provided for a three
year period ending by June 30, 1987, at which tiMe: the Government would have
restructured its budgetary mechanism to ensure the! allocation of sufficient
foreign exchange resources to cover national recurrent fertilizer requirements
of the agricultural sector. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would allocate annually sufficient amounts of foreign exchange to
meet the cost of recurrent fertilizer imports.
3.11     Project Coordination:  The project would fund vehicles, equipment and
operational costs for the project coordinating unit to provide accounting and
audit services required for ADP II. Funds would also be available for a
Project Accountant for three years. Further details are in Working Paper No. 6.
3.12     Monitoring and Evaluation:  Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural
Development Project II would be the responsibility of a new ADP Monitoring and
Evaluation unit, which would be a part of the existing Project Planning and
Monitoring Unit (PPMU), located in MOA's Planning Department. The project
would finance vehicles, operating costs, and equipment for head-office and
field staff. Funds would also be provided for the recruitment of a Manpower
Development Officer for two years. Further details are in para 4.28 and
Working Paper No. 7.
3.13     Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services:  Under the various
components above, internationally-recruited staff and consultancy services are
included as follows:
(i) International staff: an extension and training specialist (4 man-
years), a cooperatives adviser (3 man-years), a project accountant
(3 man-years), and a manpower development officer (2 man-years).



- 14 -
(ii) Consultancy Services: Consultancy support would be funded for:
(a) Extension and Training: 12 man-months to assist in
developing a Training and Visit system.
(b) Crop Research: 9 man-months to advise on a research program
in various areas of crop research. In addition, 4.5 man-
months would be provided to assist the Seed Multiplication
Unit in producing and making available improved seeds to
farmers.
(c) Management Training: 6 man-months to conduct two management
training seminars in The Gambia for senior and middle level
staff on project implementation and management; an additional
3 man-months would be available to review and advise on
visual aid and other technical aspects.
(d)  Study of GPMB: 10 man-months f'or a study of GPMB operations.
(e)  Project Preparation: 12 man-months would be provided  for
preparation of a possible follow-up project.
3.14     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that recruitment of con-
sultant or technical assistance staff be based on Bank Guidelines. Prior to
engaging such staff: (i) detailed Terms of Reference for their employment
would be reviewed and agreed with IDA; (ii) the consultants would have
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA; and (iii) the consultants'
reports would be reviewed with IDA to examine possible implementation
implications. The terms of reference, qualifications and experience of
technical assistance staff engaged by Italian Aid or Government should be
acceptable to IDA.
C. Cost Estimates 1/
3.15     Total project costs net of identifiable taxes, which would be waived,
are estimated at US$29.0 million or D101.4 million. Out of this, the cost of
the Agricultural Development Component amounts to US$18.8 million including
US$13.4 million or 70% of foreign exchange, and the CIF cost of the recurrent
national fertilizer imports over the three-year period would be US$10.2 million.
Cost estimates are based on beginning-1984 prices and include physical
contingencies of 5% on vehicles, equipment, non-labor farm inputs, operations
and maintenance, and 10% for buildings. Local staff costs reflect current
civil services scales, and international recruited staff costs of US$100,000
per man-year, exempt from income taxes, reflect prevailing market
conditions. Price contingencies applied on baseline costs plus physical
contingencies are compounded as follows:
1/   Government agreed at negotiations to waive all taxes on project
related activities.



- 1 5 -
Annual Rates                  1984   1985   1986  '1987    1988   1989
Local Costs                   11.0   12.0   12.0   10.0    10.0    8.5
Foreign Costs                  3.5    8.0    9.0    9.0       9.0    7.5
The higher price escalation factor on local costs is based on the estimated
annual inflation rate for The Gambia. Detailed cost estimates are presented
in Annex 1, and summarized in Table 1 below.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Dalasis Million)        (US$ Million)      % of Total
Local  Foreign Total  Local  Foreign Total Baseline Cost
1.  Crop and Farm Developnent    2.4  11.3    13.7    0.7   3.2         3-9       27
2.  Extension and Training       2.4   8.9    11.3    0.7    2.5        3.2       23
3. Agricultural Research         2.5   4.1      6.6    0.7   1.2        1.9       13
4.  Seed Multiplication Unit     1.8   3.2      5.0    0.5   0.9        1.4        10
5.  Cooperative Development      2.6   3.8      6.4    0.7   1.1        1.8       13
6.  Project Coordinating Unit    0.6   2.0      2.6    0.2   0.6        0.8        6
7.  Project Monitoring &
Evaluation Unit            0.6   1.1       1.7    0.2   0.3       0.5         3
8. PPF                            -    2.3      2.3      -    0.7       0.7         5
Total Baseline Costs        12.9  36.7    49.6    3.7  10.5    14.2           100
Physical Contingencies       0.6   1.8      2.4    0.2   0.5        0.7         5
Price Contingencies          5.2   8.6    13.8    1.5   2.4         3.9        27
Subtotal Project Costs      18.7  47.1    65.8    5.4  13-4    18.8           132
Recurrent National
Fertilizer Imports          -   35.6    35.6       -   10.2    10.2         -
Total Project Costs         18.7  82.7   101.4    5.4  23.6    29.0
D. Proposed Financing
3.16     The proposed financing plan would be as follows:
(i)  the Agricultural Development Component's cost net of taxes would be
financed by IDA and IFAD (US$14.4 million or 77% of total cost),
Italian Aid (US$3.1 million or 16% of total cost), Government and
farmers (US$1.3 million or 7% of total cost); and
(ii)  costs of recurrent national fertilizer imports (US$10.2 million)
would be financed by Italian aid (US$6.4 million or 63%), and
Government (US$3.8 million or 37%).



- 16 -
Table 2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Italian
Total    IDA     IFAD       Aid    Govt.   Farmers
1.  Production Inputs          5.6    1.9       1.3      1.6      0.5      0.3
2.  Building/Construction      3.8    2.4       1.3      -        0.1      -
3.  Vehicle & Equipment        2.1    1.3       0.8      -        -        _
4.  Local Staff                1.7    0.5       -        0.9      0.3      -
5.  Expatriate Staff           2.0    0.8       0.6      0.6      -        -
6.  Operation & Main-
tenance                  2.9    1.8       1.0      -       0.1       -
7. Project Preparation
Facility                 0.7    0.7       -        -        -        -
Total Ag. Dev. Comp.          18.8    9.4       5.       3-.1     1.0      0.3
Recurrent National
Fertilizer Imports            10.2    -         -        6.4      3.8
Total Project Cost            29.0    9.4       5.0      9.5      4.8      0.3
%                 100     32       17        33      17         1
The proposed IDA credit of US$9.4 million would be on standard terms and would
finance 32% of the total project costs. Along with the IFAD loan of US$5.0
million, the IDA credit would jointly cover about 45% (US$10.7 million) of
the total foreign exchange costs and about 69% ,US$3.7 million) of local
costs.  A condition of IDA Credit Effectiveness should be that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan and those of Italian aid had
been fulfilled. In view of financial constraints facing the Government of The
Gambia it would be essential for project success to provide prefinancing for
certain categories of project expenditures. An amount of US$500,000 financed
as an advance from IDA credit and lFAD Loan wou:Ld be deposited in two separate
Special Accounts (US$300,000 for IDA and US$200,000 for IFAD) to be held in
foreign currency at the Central Bank of Gambia. Opening of the Special
Accounts is Condition of Effectiveness. The accounts would be replenished
upon receipt of a disbursement application supported by: (i) a statement of
account showing transactions and balances certi:'ied by the Central Bank; (ii)
a reconciliation of withdrawals with statements of expenditures and receipts
for permitted expenditures; and (iii) a reconci:Liation of balances with
disbursements by and pending claims to the Association. An assurance was
obtained from Government at negotiations that the Special Accounts would be
operated under Terms and Conditions acceptable to the Association.
E. Procurement
3.17     Procurement arrangements under the project are summarized on table 3
below. Goods and civil works procured under the project would be under con-
tracts awarded in accordance with IDA procedures, on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding or local competitive bidding, except where other-
wise agreed with the Association Contracts for procurement of technical
assistance and consultant services would be awarded in accordance with IDA
procedures.



- 17 -
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements
(uss millions)
Project Category                     Procurement Method           Total Cost
ICB     LCB     Local      Other
Shopping
Production Inputs
Fertilizer                                                12.3 a/       12.3
Oxen and Donkey
Packages and Seeds                      2.4                              2.4
(1-4)                           (1.4)
Vehicle and Equipment
Vehicles                         1.2                                     1.2
(0.7)                                   (0-7)
Office Equipment                                0.6                      0.6
(0.4)                   (0.4)
Building and Construction
Houses and Store                        3.0 b/                           3.0
(2.2)                           (2.2)
Consultants Services
and Technical Assistance                                   1.6c/         1.6
(1.-6        (1.0)
TOTAL CONTRACT VALUES            1.2    5.4     0.6       13.9          21.1 d/
(0.7)  (3.6)   (0.4)      (1.0)         (5.7) e/
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA
Credit.
a/  Fertilizers and chemicals worth about US$8.0 million (US$1.6 million
incremental and US$6.4 million recurrent) wouLd be procured by GPMB from
Italian firms under Italian tied aid arrangements. The remaining ferti-
lizers would be procured by GPMB under their own arrangements.
b/ Amounts are small and houses and stores are dispersed through the country;
they are not likely to be attractive to foreign contractors. Should ICB
be required, localbidders should be given 7.5% preference.
c/ To be procured individually through reputable firms; Italian aid provides
technical assistance worth about US$0.6 million.
d/ Does not include price contingencies of US$4.6 million, local salaries of
US$1.2 million, operating and maintenance expenses of US$2.0 million.
Difference of US$0.1 million is due to rounding.
e/ Does not include price contingencies of US$2.1 million, local salaries of
US$0.5 million, operating and maintenance expense of US$1.1 million. The
total IDA Credit adds up to US$9.4 million.



- 18 -
All bidding packages for ICB or LCB contracts over US$75,000 would be subject
to the Association's prior review of procurement documentation. The balance
of the contracts would be subject to ex-post reviews by the Association after
contract award.
F. Disbursements
3.18     The proceeds of IDA funds of US$9.4 million, except for refunding of
the PPF advance and financing of local staff, would be jointly disbursed with
IFAD funds (US$5.0 million) over seven years. IDA and IFAD disbursments would
be based on the following categories for the following amounts:
Amount
Category                                               Terms                   US$ m
1.  Production Inputs                            100% of foreign exchange costs;    2.3
95% of local costs
2.  Building/Construction                        100% of foreign exchange and          2.8
95% of local costs
3.  Vehicle and Equipment                        100% of foreign exchange; 95% of   2.1
locaL costs
4.  Local staff                                  30% of total costs                     .5
5.  Expatriate Staff/Consultant Services         100% of total costs                   1.4
6.  Operating Expenses                           100% of foreign exchange and          2.6
95% of local costs
7.  Project Preparation Facility                                                       0.7
8.  Initial Withdrawal for Special Account                                              .5
9.  Unallocated                                                                        1.5
Total                                                                      1.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 2, and has been prepared on
the basis of the IDA disbursement profile for area development projects in
West Africa. Disbursements against vehicles and equipment, farm inputs,
salaries, and allowances of internationally recruited staff would be fully
documented. Other disbursements would be made against statements of expendi-
ture, which would be verified from time to time during project supervision,
covering the following local cost items: (i) work carried out by local
contractors for construction of buildings; and (ii) operating expenses and
minor miscellaneous expenditures of the research component. The project's
accounting unit would be able to maintain adequate records and accounts for
disbursements against Statements of Expenditure. In addition, the project
auditors' Terms of Reference would require them to verify the Statements of
Expenditure and would include a statement to this effect in the annual state-
ment of accounts. Disbursements into the Special Accounts would be made
according to the procedures discussed in para 3.16. Assurances were obtained
from Government at negotiations that statements of expenditures would be
properly maintained and audited for all items of expenditures not required to
be documented and submitted for IDA disbursement.



- 19 -
G. Accounts and Audit
3.19     The Project Coordinating Unit would prepare budgets and estimates of
the project's annual and quarterly cash requirements based on appraisal
estimates, but amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs, project
progress and agreed sector development policies. The budgets would then be
submitted to the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) for approval. On the
basis of the approved budgets, Government would: (i) make appropriate alloca-
tions to the project in MOA budget and release the necessary funds quarterly
in advance; and (ii) make timely allocations of the necessary foreign exchange
to GPMB for the importation of farm inputs. GPMB would make available the
imported farm inputs to GCU for distribution to farmers. Other imported goods
which would be required under the project would be paid by IDA or other donors
directly to the foreign suppliers after adequate documentation under the
proposed project. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions. The Project Coordinating Unit, which maintained project accounts under
RDP, would continue to maintain accounts for this project. However, because
of the experience under RDP, an internationally recruited Project Accountant
would be employed for the first three years of the project to ensure proper
maintenence of project accounts, and to train accounts staff. It is a
Condition of Effectiveness that a Project Accountant would have been
appointed.
3.20     Government would cause MOA and GCU to: (i) maintain separate accounts
for the project in accordance with accounting practices already established
under the previous project; (ii) have the accounts audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) submit certified copies
of the audited accounts and the auditor's report to IDA within six months of
the end of each financial year; (iv) ensure that the reports of the auditors
are of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request; and (v) furnish
such other information concerning its accounts as IDA may reasonably
require. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
IV. PROJECT EXECUTION
A. Project Organization
4.01     Effective coordination at all levels from Districts to the Project
Coordinating Unit is essential for successful project implementation. The
lessons learned from RDP have been taken into consideration in devising the
improved system described below. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would have
overall responsibility for the project, but project implementation would be
the direct responsibility of the Departments and organizations for which
financing is proposed. Under RDP, the Project Coordinating Unit tended to
assume responsibility for implementation. In addition, two new tiers have
been added to the organization system: (a) a Project Coordination Working
Committee at head office level; and (b) the use of Divisional Coordination
Committees at field level (para. 4.02). These measures would overcome the
main problems experienced under the earlier project.



- 20 -
4.02     The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), to be established under the
project, would be an integral part of MOA, responsible for project coordina-
tion, administration of project activities and monitoring of sub-project
components. PCU would be headed by a Project Director with qualifications
acceptable to the Association, who would be graded not less than Under
Secretary level. The appointment of a Projecl; Director is a condition of
effectiveness. PCU would include procurement, administration, and accounts
sections. A Civil Works Administrator with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association would be appointed by Government for three years
to coordinate with PCU and supervise the project-financed civil works program.
An agreement to this effect was reached at negotiations. The Project Director
would have overall responsibility for all procurement matters. He would re-
port directly to the Permanent Secretary, MOA, which would facilitate his role
of support and liaison with other Ministries. PCU would maintain separate
project accounts. However, there is a need to strengthen the accounts
section, hence the Project would fund a qualified project accountant for three
years. In conjunction with MOA's Planning, Programme and Monitoring Unit
(PPMU), PCU would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating Project imple-
mentation and performance. In support of PCU, the Project Coordination
Committee (PCC), would be established under the chairmanship of the Permanent
Secretary, MOA, and composed of the Permanent Secretaries of Ministries of
Finance and Trade (MOF); Economic Planning and Industrial Development; the
Secretary General, Office of the President; Directors of Departments involved
in project implementation; the Managing Director of Gambia Produce Marketing
Board (GPMB); and the General Manager, Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU), (or
their nominees), would meet at regular intervals (not less than once per month
in PY1 and at least once bimonthly in PY2 to PY5) to review project progress.
PCC would have the ultimately responsibility for project implementation.  A
Project Coordination Working Committee (PCWC) chaired by the Director of
Agriculture and including the General Manager, GCU, the Project Director, and
the Assistant Directors, Extension and Research (or their nominees), would be
established to handle coordination of agricultural development, input supply
and marketing and would meet more regularly than PCC. The establishment of
the PCC and PCWU is a condition of credit effectiveness. A Divisional
Coordination Committee, would be established at each Division under the
chairmanship of the Divisional Commissioner, and include nominated repre-
sentatives from GCU and various Ministries, would provide for inter-mini-
sterial coordination at Divisional and field level. These committees would
meet not less than at monthly intervals and implementing departments as well
as PCC would receive copies of their reports. Agreement on the establishment
of these committees was reached at negotiations.
B. Agricultural Extension Services and Training
4.03     Agricultural Extension Services.  General agreement has been reached
on plans for a substantial reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), including improved chain of command, decentralization, and a unified,
more capable but smaller extension service. Proposals are not only innova-
tive, based on the concept of having a well-trained polyvalent extension
worker at village level, but also timely in view of the need to cut Government
costs. Nevertheless, substantial retraining would be required to achieve the
goal of a truly polyvalent extension worker, and full implications of merging



- 21 -
agricultural and livestock services require further study. Therefore, re-
organization would be phased in gradually in close consultation with IDA. As
a first step, the project would support merging of different extension
services for rainfed crops (cereals, groundnuts and cotton) and ox-training,
women's and young farmers clubs programs, into one smaller but upgraded
service reorganized and run according to the principles of the "Training and
Visit" system. The second step would be the reorganization of the MOA Higher
Management structure to give improved coordination of departments in the
field. The final step would be the reorganization of irrigated crops and
livestock extension services (not financed under the project) and incorpora-
tion under one extension service with rainfed crops. Full agreement has been
reached on the merging of rainfed crop extension services; the implementation
of this merger is a condition of effectiveness. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Association would be consulted prior to any further
reorganization of MOA and that a time-bound implementation plan for the
reorganization should be agreed with the Association by December 1984. In the
interim, there is need to ensure proper coordination between the crop spraying
and farmer training services of the Crop Protection Service, and extension and
training services of DOA.
4.04     The rainfed crops extension service would be based on a ratio of one
village Extension worker (VEW) to 250 farm family units, or about 6 villages.
VEWs(165) would be drawn from existing agricultural assistants and retrained
demonstrators. Retraining, as well as retiring of redundant demonstrators
(110), would be phased through PY3. The 30 existing Mixed Farming Centers
(MFC) and sub-stations would become District Extension Centers (DEC) at which
would be based a senior agricultural assistant supervising 5 to 6 VEW who
would live in the villages. In view of the continued need to train farmers in
the correct use of animal traction equipment, specialist ox-ploughing staff
would, for the time being, be retained for farmer training but numbers reduced
from 50 to 30. The new organization would incorporate inter-alia the specia-
list cotton service in Upper River and MacCarthy Island Divisions. The
present women's program would be merged with the rainfed crops extension
service and advice to women rice farmers provided through this service, which
is acceptable in The Gambia. In addition, the new extension service would be
closely monitored to ensure that women's needs are adequately served.
4.05     Each Division would be headed by a senior agricultural officer (SAO),
who would have administrative support from an agricultural superintendent,
accounting officer and accounts clerk. Apart from one accounting officer and
accounts clerk to be funded under the Project, other support staff are already
in post. The SAO, as the Divisional MOA representative, would be a member of
the Divisional Coordination Committee (para 4.02). Reporting procedures would
be improved and linkages between research, seed multiplication and extension
strengthened. Improved research linkages would be developed through an off-
station trials program at six selected DECs' and VEWs would supervise on-farm
field trials (about one trial per man) under control of the research services.
Improved radio links between DOA headquarters and the five divisional offices
would lead to improved coordination and control of field services.
4.06     Present and proposed staffing are shown in Table 4 below:



- 22 -
Table 4: FIELD EXTENSION SERVICES
(Rainfed Crops)
Present      Proposed
Staffing      Staffing
Extension/Training Specialist                              1
Principal Agric. Officers                  1               2
Agricultural Officers                      5               5
Agriculture Superintendents                9              10
Senior Agric. Assistants                   6              30
Agricultural Assistants                  164             165
Demonstrators                            2:35
Ox Ploughing Staff                       1-0              30
3r70           242
4.07     About 110 agricultural demonstrators and 20 ox-ploughing staff would
become redundant during the project period. Normal retirement or resignation
would take care of some of this surplus but obligatory retirement may be ne-
cessary for demonstrators not selected for upgrading. The Manpower Develop-
ment Officer would develop programs to encourage and create incentives for
retiring staff to go back into farming.
4.08     Training:  Whilst the project would concentrate on training within
DOA, a Manpower Development Officer would be based in PPMU to coordinate all
departmental manpower and common training issues. He would conduct a full
manpower study of MOA including an assessment of the full implications of the
proposed reorganization, development of retraining programs in conjunction
with the extension and training specialist, and preparation of a program for
retirement and redeployment of redundant staff. The initial thrust of the
training program would be retraining about 125 agricultural demonstrators to
the level of agricultural assistant. This program, using facilities at Gambia
College, is expected to start in 1984 and be c:ompleted in 1986.
4.09     In-service training would be reorganized along "T & V" lines with
training during the growing season held at District (fortnightly) and Divi-
sional (monthly) levels. Under the extension and training specialist, two
training groups would be formed -- one for the eastern and one for the western
region. Each group would be headed by a training officer supported for dis-
trict level training by two to three Subject Xiatter Specialists (5 in total)
selected from existing agricultural superintendents. Subject Matter
Specialists, who would cover the main impact points of groundnuts, cotton and
maize, would provide the link with research, participating in supervision of
adaptive field trials and would also provide an ongoing diagnosis of the
situation at village level. At the divisional level, specialist inputs would
be obtained from research staff, agriculture engineering and soil and water
management services of DOA as well as the Departments of Crop Protection and
Animal Health and Production. The training of'ficers would be based at Jenoi
and courses would be run at Jenoi in the off-season for staff of all divi-
sions. Recruitment of the extension and training specialist and consultant to



- 23 -
assist development of the extension system (para 3.13(ii)(c)) is now being
initiated.
4.10     The Extension Aids Unit (EAU) would continue to serve all Departments
of MOA, but since its primary function would be to serve agricultural exten-
sion and training services with production of relevant materials required by
the VEWs and understood by farmers, it would be brought under the Department
of Agriculture. In advance of each year, its program of work for the exten-
sion services and other departments would be approved by the PCC. Farmer
training, synonymous with extension, would be done in the field by VEWs
suitably supported by the Extension Aids Unit. Demonstrations of improved
practices would be on farmers' fields.
4.11     An important area complementary to the planned extension reorganiza-
tion would be senior- and middle-level management training. Rather than send-
ing staff on overseas courses which tend to be of limited relevance and dis-
ruptive of ongoing work programs, six man-months of consultancy assistance has
been provided under the project to enable professional management trainers
with similar experience elsewhere in Africa to run courses during the project
implementation period. Courses would be run in The Gambia for senior- and
middle-level groups using locally known problems as case studies. In this
way, MOA managers would be given the opportunity for management training and,
as the same teaching group would return, there would be continuity and follow-
up in the training process. Overseas training would be restricted to short
courses at technical or middle level institutes in Africa, a course for mecha-
nics of the EAU, and visits to projects in neighboring countries.
C. Agricultural Research
4.12     The agricultural research component would be implemented through the
existing organization under the Assistant Director Research and with direction
and coordination assured by the Agricultural Research Advisory Board (ARAB),
the role of which would be strengthened under the project. Through ARAB the
activities at Sapu would be coordinated with speciaL services at Yundum, other
MOA departments, and with major agricultural development projects, including
the Mixed-Farming and the Jahaly/Patcharr projects. An experienced research
consultant would assist ARAB with the planning and evaluation of the Sapu
program. The farming system research economist, who would be based at Sapu,
would coordinate the work of upland crops and rice units, which are already
staffed by four Gambian research officers, and deveLop a farming systems
approach. He would be responsible to the Assistant Director, Research, and
would liaise with PPMU on farm management economic aspects. Close contact
would be maintained with research services in West Africa; in particular
senior staff of Sapu would be expected to meet at least once a year with staff
of the National Research Organization in Senegal (Institut S6negalais de
Recherches Agricoles) and would visit relevant research services in Senegal
regularly.
4.13     Technical aspects to be tackled would include rotations, cropping
sequences, improvement of traditional mixed-cropping, integration of livestock
and making better use of animal traction equipment. Testing of animal trac-
tion and cereal processing equipment would be handled by the Agriculture



- 24 -
Engineering Unit. Plant selection would continue to be based on testing
improved varieties from neighboring countries as well as identifying the best
local varieties of cereals. Efforts to identify improved sorghum and millets
would be stepped up, the economic justification of present fertilizer
recommendations for local varieties would be checked, and trials on use of
triple super phosphate as groundnut fertilizer conducted. Initial selection
and testing of improved economic packages would be based at Sapu (where about
60 ha of land have already been set up on a rotational system for seed multi-
plication and research, and about four ha of irrigated land are available),and
at Yundum. Mangrove swamp rice research would continue to be centered at
Jenoi sub-station, which could also serve as a base to work on rice production
in areas to be influenced by the proposed Gambia bridge/barrage project.
After initial screening, promising materials would be further tested at the
six district extension centers where district; trials facilities would be
provided. The final stage of testing would le carried out in farmers' fields
under supervision of Sapu and off-station trials staff, but with extension
staff participation. Because of the wide range of ecological conditions under
which rice is grown, and the current location, of DECs, it would be necessary
to carry out the rice district trial program on farmers' fields. To avoid
problems caused by previous ad-hoc approaches to construction at Sapu, MOA has
appointed a full-time experienced administrator for Sapu station and a master
plan of the station layout is under preparation. The experienced research
consultant (para 3.05) to be funded through ODA (interim period to PY2) and
the project (PY3 to PY5) would assist MOA in preparing and reviewing research
programs. At negotiation, assurances were obtained from Government that the
Association would be consulted in drawing up the annual research program.
D.   Seed Multiplication
4.14     The Seed Multiplication Unit(SMU) would remain under the Agricultural
Research Directorate with the Senior Seeds Officer reporting to the Assistant
Director, Research.  The National Seeds Council (NSC),which has already been
set up comprising heads of the relevant MOA departments, the managing direc-
tors of GCU and GPMB and chaired by the Permanent Secretary MOA, would advise
Government on future seed policies and guide the scheme's overall development
in response to national needs. A variety relaase committee would advise NSC
on matters relating to release of new varieties and NSC would have authority
to coordinate activities of all development projects in seed multiplication
and distribution. The role of the NSC has been formalized by Government.
4.15     The SMU would be organized in four ssections: administration, quality
control, production, and processing/marketing. The quality control unit would
include checking seed purity and germination, organizing crop inspection, and
training temporary crop inspectors (VEWs). The production section would
handle production of all foundation seeds (in:itially for groundnut, rice,
maize, cotton and ultimately for sorghum/millet) and some registered seed on
the upland block (70 ha available for research and seed multiplication) and
20 ha swamp at Sapu, together with supervision of contract growers. Certified
rice seed, some registered groundnut seed, and all certified groundnut seed
would be produced by contract growers around ';apu.



- 25 -
4.16     Certified rice and groundnut seeds would be bought back from contract
growers by SIU using a revolving fund and the final bulking of groundnuts
(improved seeds) done by farmers under contract. The agricultural extension
service in collaboration with cooperative societies would supervise further
multiplication by selected cooperative members and improved seed (rising from
2,000 tons PYl to 2,600 tons PY5) would be bought back by cooperatives socie-
ties on behalf of GPMB prior to distribution to farmers for commercial produc-
tion. The processing/marketing section would handle processing of all seeds
through the certified stage. A seed processing plant provided by FAO has been
erected. A marketing specialist (funded by ODA) would train Gambians in the
use and maintenance of the new processing plant. He would, with the assis-
tance of PPMU, develop a seed marketing policy including pricing of certified
and improved grades for recovery of an agreed part of seed costs and coopera-
tive distribution costs. At negotiations assurances were obtained from
Government that a pricing policy statement to recover at least operating and
distribution costs, would be submitted by December 1984 for approval by the
Association.
E. The Gambia Cooperative Union and the Cooperative Movement
4.17     In line with RDP experience (para. 2.11), an important feature of the
project would be the organizational and financial rehabilitation of GCU and
the cooperative movement. This has already begun with GCU and Government
working closely with the Association in preparation for this project. Govern-
ment has approved an outline plan for the organizational rehabilitation of the
Cooperative Movement and some of the recommendations have been implemented.
At GCU, the General Manager has been confirmed in his post and the management
structure reorganized and strengthened. A review of the viability of each
primary society would be carried out in accordance with an agreed time
schedule during 1983, followed by reorganization and improvement of seccos
considered viable, and closure or merger of others. With regard to the finan-
cial rehabilitation of GCU and the cooperative societies a draft plan has been
drawn up and discussed with the Association. Government has agreed to organi-
zational and financial rehabilitation plans acceptable to the Association
which include inter-alia, proposals for (a) dealing with GCU's outstanding
debt of about D 25.0 million; (b) the removal of subsistence credit; and (c)
the capitalization of RDP loan recoveries including the balance on the RDP
Revolving Fund.
4.18     The Gambia Cooperative Union.  The chief official of GCU is the
General Manager who works under the direction of a M4anagement Committee formed
of three Government nominees, and seven members elected by member cooperative
societies (CS). He is assisted by five Departmenta:L Managers each responsible
to him for one of the following functions: finance, marketing, credit, trans-
port, and personnel. The post of Deputy Manager is being reestablished and
this would provide the General Manager with more time to deal with policy
issues and to coordinate Departmental activities. The accounting system would
be improved and a management information system introduced for more effective
cost control. GCU personnel costs have been increasing at an annual rate of
40%, but the maximum complement of staff has now been agreed and a staff
review would be completed in 1984 in accordance with the rehabilitation plan
(para 4.17). GCU financial situation has deteriorated seriously during the



- 26 -
last few years mainly because of the issue of subsistence, seed and fertilizer
credit on Government directives which resulted in an oustanding debt of about
D 25 million with Gambia Commercial Development Bank on which GCU had to pay
interest. As a part of the Cooperative structure financial rehabilitation,
Government has agreed to freeze that debt plus interest until a more permanent
solution, acceptable to the Association can be agreed. Government has agreed
to remove all future subsistence credit. Taking these into consideration, the
five year projected income and expenditure statement and Balance sheet in
Working Paper No. 5 show GCU as a viable and profitable institution.
4.19     Distribution and storage of inputs, and evacuation of crops would be
arranged, as now, by GCU in consultation with Agricultural Extension Officers
and GPMB. The transport system has been reviewed to improve input supply and
speed up evacuation of groundnuts, and private transport would continue to be
hired to supplement GCU vehicles and those obtained from GPMB. Close liaison
between GCU and GPMB is essential and proposals on mutual exchange of Direc-
tors on their Management Committees are included in the Rehabilitation Plan.
The ILO Project would recruit an Adviser to review and help strengthen the
organization and management of crop evacuation and input supply.
4.20     Agricultural Credit.  Cash sales of inputs would be encouraged under
the project, but seasonal credit, mainly for fertilizer, and medium-term loans
for animal drawn equipment, oxen, donkeys, and small village rice mills, would
be made available to members through their cooperatives by GCU. Group lending
would be introduced to reduce costs and to improve recoveries; also procedures
for lending to women would be introduced. With the advice of the Cooperative
Adviser, manuals covering policies, procedures, terms and conditions for the
provision of credit would be established and the administrative structure
reorganized and strengthened. With the ongoing organizational and financial
rehabilitation of GCU, draft details and schedules for which have been agreed
with the Association, GCU would be capable of administering a strictly con-
trolled program of production and investment credit. Credit made available to
members would be related to incremental returns which could be expected from
the investments. Separate project accounts would be maintained by GCU for
credit advanced under the project. Primary societies committee members would
be involved at every stage in the credit administration process to ensure
acceptance of responsibility and to help ensure that credit is used properly
and borrowers repay as agreed.
4.21     Credit for inputs would be considered only where:
(i) a farmer is a member of a register.ed primary society, classified
as viable or potentialy viable, following a review started in 1983
and to be completed in 1984;
(ii) the society agrees to implement a production oriented system of
credit;
(iii) the primary society has an average rate of recovery on dues on all
types of credit, based on the preceding three years, of not less
than 85%; and



- 27 -
(iv) there are no dues outstanding against the farmer.
4.22     Seasonal Credit would be provided in kind, mainly fertilizer, to
members at a flat rate of 13% with a minimum charge of Dalasis 15. However,
since seasonal loans are usually repaid within 9 months, the effective
interest rate is quite higher than the stated 13%. As, initially, GCU would
maintain a bad debts reserve and would be responsible for personnel and other
costs of staff of the Credit Department, including the credit supervisors/ledger
clerks who would be based at seccos; the interest margin would be shared
between GCU and primary cooperatives. The labor of a member would be assumed
as his personal stake in production, and no cash down payment would be
required. However, to encourage increases in equity holdings within the
Cooperative Movement, a member would be required to hold share capital within
the primary cooperative amounting to at least 10% of his borrowings. Repay-
ments would be due, on a date fixed by GCU, to reflect the first marketing
period of the major crop for which inputs were supplied following the date of
the advance. Penalty interest at the rate of 5% per annum would be charged to
members, in addition to the agreed lending rate, on amounts not repaid by the
set date. Medium term credit would be available for animal drawn equipment,
oxen, donkeys, and small village rice mills. No down payment would be
required on a loan for oxen where a member agrees to use as collateral the
oxen that he already owns, otherwise, as with all other inputs supplied on
medium term loans a down payment of 5% of the cost of the investment would be
required. In addition, a member would be required to hold share capital
amounting to at least 5% of his borrowings. Interest would be charged from
the date of the advance at 13% per annum. There would be a grace period of
one year on principal, thereafter, both interest and principal would be
payable by equal annual installments over four years, on or before a date
fixed by GCU to reflect the marketing period of the major crop for which the
input was supplied. Penalty interest at 5% per arLnum would also be applied to
amounts overdue on medium term loans. Several pre-cooperative Women's
Association are involved in the cultivation of commercial rice farms. They
need small village rice mills and access to fertilizer on credit; procedures
for lending project funds to those Associations would be introduced by GCU.
4.23     GCU would establish and maintain a separate Revolving Loans Fund into
which all farmers' loan repayments would be made and an assurance to this
effect was obtained from Government at negotiations. The loan recovery
performance under RDP has not been good mainly because there were two poor
cropping seasons out of three and no rescheduling of loan repayments was
carried out. Also Government announced that subsistence credit would not have
to be repaid and most farmers understood this to apply to all loans. Govern-
ment has recently clarified the situation and is actively supporting GCU in
its efforts to recover overdue loans during the ongoing 1982/83 harvesting
season. The results are encouraging with over 90% recoveries of subsistence
loans in 1982/83 harvesting season.
4.24     Financing arrangements under the project are designed to provide
support to the program for rehabilitation and strengthening of the cooperative
structure. The following lending terms would, therefore, be applied.



- 28 -
(i) IDA to Government of The Gambia
Standard terms.
(ii) Government to GCU
Interest free loan, repayable at the end of 10 years. At that time
Government would consider converting the long-term loan into equity.
(iii) GCU to Registered Primary Societies
11% per annum; repayments to coincide with repayments from farmers.
(iv)  Registered Primary Societies to Farmers
(a)  Seasonal Credit not less than a flat rate of 13% 1/, with a
minimum charge of Dalasis 15, repayments due on or before a date
fixed by GCU; overdue amounts would bear an additional penalty
interest rate of 5% per annum.
(b) Medium Term Credit not less than 13% per annum; one year grace
period for repayment of principal, but interest due and payable
at the end of that year, thereafter, interest payable with each
of four equal annual installments of principal on dates to be
fixed by GCU. Overdue amounts would bear an additional penalty
interest rate of 5% per annum.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that interest rates, and margins between
GCU and cooperative societies would be reviewed annually with the Association
and adjusted as necessary to ensure positive interest rates and adequate
margins to cover costs. Credit operations would need to be monitored closely
and a full review would be carried out at the end of the first year of the
project. An assurance to that effect was obtained at negotiations. It is a
Condition of Effectiveness that Government of The Gambia would have executed a
Financing Agreement with GCU, satisfactory to IDA, which would include, inter-
alia: (a) lending terms and conditions stated above; and (b) eligibility
criteria for primary cooperative societies to participate the project (para
4.21). In addition, GCU would execute subsidiary credit agreements with
participating primary cooperative societies. Agreement to this effect was
reached at negotiations.
4.25     Primary Cooperative Societies (CS):  A review of each member multi-
purpose cooperative society was conducted jointly by GCU and the Department of
Cooperation in 1983 (para 4.17), followed by strengthening of those classified
1/   The domestic inflation rate was 7% in 1978 and increased to 8% and
10% in 1979 and 1980 respectively. The increase could largely be attri-
butable to increses in prices of oil import;s. The inflation rate
declined to 9% in 1981. During the project; implementation period, the
inflation rate is projected at 11% for 1984, 12% for 1985-86, 10% for
1987-88 and 8.5% thereafter.



- 29 -
as viable, or potentially viable, and phased closure of others. Priority
would be given to improving the performance of buying points (seccos). The
development of CS into full multipurpose units would place strain on secco
staff and committees, but they would be assisted by GCU Field Coordinators,
one being based at each of the ten GPMB depots. Seacco supervisors would
continue to be employed directly by GCU, in consultation with cooperative
committees. GCU credit supervisors/ledger clerks would assist with the admin-
istration of credit and maintain secco accounts. CS would, however, have
prime responsibility for collection of loan repayments. The proposed agree-
ment of member societies to accept contracts stipulating secco functions for
which GCU would assume responsibility would enable standardized systems and
controls to be introduced. A budgeting control system has been introduced at
seccos, but further improvements need to be made in accounting and other
controls. This would be done either with assistance from an ILO adviser
(para 4.19) or with guidance from the Cooperative Adviser and an
Accountant/Systems Adviser.
4.26     Department of Cooperation:  With effect from July 1, 1983, respon-
sibilities for cooperative activities were transferred back from Ministry of
Local Government and Lands to MOA, thus ensuring better coordination of
project activities between DOA and DOC. Assistant Registrars would continue
to be in charge of each of the six Cooperative Circles, where inspectors are
based who would provide audit, inspection, and supervision. Audit would
include evaluation of debts, other assets and liabilities. Assisted by the
USAID Project and the ILO Project, member education and staff training in
support of the development of the seccos would continue to be provided at the
Cooperative Training Centre and in the villages by staff of the Department of
Cooperation.
F. Pricing and Subsidies
4.27     Government sets producer prices based on the recommendations of a
pricing committee headed by GPMB. The committee comprises of representatives
from the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture and Economic Planning. However,
this committee does not have a systematic approach to determining producer
prices or well-defined pricing policy objectives. In the past, there was
consistent increases in prices wichout due consideration to world prices of
groundnuts, GPMB's financial position or levels of prices in neighboring
Senegal. The result was an untenable situation in 1983/84 which forced the
Government to reduce prices in that year. There is, therefore, a need to
develop pricing policy objectives which should, among other things:
(a) allow for stable producer prices of groundnuts to be maintained in
order to ensure incentives to farmers and adequate margins to GPMB;
(b)  encourage increased efficiency in the marketing chain to ensure
maximum returns to the farmers;
(c) use producer prices to promote long-term diversification in the
agricultural sector; and
(d) restore a multi-crop stabilization fund to reduce the impact of
fluctuations in the world prices on the farmers.



- 30 -
4.28     The marketing chains of GPMB need to be made more efficient and cost-
effective and the price setting machinery should be strengthened. Therefore,
a study of GPMB's operations, to be carried out during PYI (by December 31
1984), would, include inter alia: i) recommendations for the achievement of
the Government's agricultural producer pricing policy objectives including
price stability, assuring maximum incentives to farmers while assuring
adequate margins to GPMB, and promotion of optimal crop diversification; ii) a
review of the existing institutional mechanisms for annual establishment of
agricultural producer prices and the optimal timing of such announcements;
iii) a review of the impact of the elimination of fertilizer subsidies on the
use of fertilizer and the correlated need to adjust producer prices; iv)
determination of the scope for improving the efficiency of GPMB and specific
measures to achieve this goal; and v) recommendlations as to the appropriate
measures to be taken in order to restore a crop stabilization fund and to
assure its financial viability. The Terms of T2eference for the proposed study
would be sent to the Association for its review by not later than June 30,
1984. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
review with the Association the study's recommendations and agree on an
implementation schedule within three months from the date of completion of the
study.
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation
4.29     The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the PPMU would consist of two
cells, one for monitoring and the other for evaluation. The objective of the
Monitoring Cell would be to provide the Project; Coordinator and the Project
Coordination Committee with regular and timely information concerning project
implementation. Monitoring would be regarded basically as a project manage-
ment tool to help in timely identification of bottlenecks and thereby assist
the Project Coordinator to take appropriate action where necessary to speed up
the implementation process. The Monitoring Cell would gather relevant project
information concerning project implementation, such as physical and financial
progress, availability and distribution of agricultural inputs and credit to
farmers through cooperatives, and project management data required by the
Project Coordinator. In coordination with agricultural extension staff, the
Monitoring Cell would play an active role each year in assessing quantities of
agricultural inputs and implements which would be required and which should be
ordered in advance through GPMB (fertilizers), Seed Multiplication Unit
(improved seeds), or the Crop Protection Service (pesticides). The Evaluation
Cell would be responsible for evaluating the impact of the project and carry-
ing out periodic special surveys, such as on the use of improved practices,
evaluating farmer reaction, and assessing the effectiveness of cooperatives in
providing input supplies and credit to farmers. To provide a suitable base-
line data against which the effectiveness of the project could be assessed,
relevant socio-economic data was gathered by PPMU during the annual agricul-
tural survey carried out in mid-1983 for the 1983/84 crop season. A post-
project evaluation survey would be carried out to analyze total project impact
and a draft Project Completion Report would be prepared within six months of
project completion.



- 31 -
H. Reporting
4.30     In addition to the financial reporting requirements outlined in
para 3.20, the Project Coordinating Unit would prepare semi-annual and annual
reports for its own use and for the Project Coordination Committee. These
reports would be submitted to IDA for review after each reporting period.
Reporting procedures, including a Key Indicator Table are summarized in
Working Paper No.11. An assurance was obtained from Government at negotia-
tions that Reports would be submitted in accordance with formats agreed to at
negotiations, and in addition, Government would prepare and furnish to IDA,
promptly after project completion, a Project Completion Report with format and
content acceptable to the Association.
I.       Mid-term Review
4.31     In view of RDP experience, a mid-project review would be essential.
A major review of the overall project performance would be carried out by the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be submitted to the Association not later
than June 30, 1986, paying particular attention to progress of institutional
reforms. Government would discuss the findings of the review with the Asso-
ciation and agree on an action program for the remainder of the project period
by not later than October 31, 1986. Government and the Association's agree-
ment on the action plan will be a condition of continuing disbursements on all
project components except contracts specifically approved by he Association
before that date. Agreement to this effect was reached at negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION TECHNIQUES AND SPECIFICATIONS
A. Crop Development
5.01     Project Focus:  The main focus of the project's production activities
would be on improving production and returns from groundnuts, rice, maize,
cotton, sorghum, and millet. Groundnuts occupy more than half of the
cultivated area and are likely to remain the country's primary cash and export
crop in the foreseeable future. Cotton in URD and MID, and rice and upland
cereals throughout the country are increasingly being grown for cash and the
project would increase yields through improved husbandry techniques and, where
appropriate, use of inputs. Government's policy of increasing food self-
sufficiency would be supported through an increase in production of maize,
rice, and to a lesser extent sorghum and millets. Testing of improved, more
efficient (higher ratio of grain to stem) and more palatable varieties of
sorghum and millet initiated under RDP would be continued and identification
of varieties for wider distribution would be expected by the end of the
project period. Four systems of swamp and rainfed rice would benefit from the
project activities, namely: mangrove tidal swamp rice, inland deep fresh
waterswamp rice, and short and medium duration bottomland (shallow flooded)
rice. Although irrigated rice would not be supported directly, SMU would
provide seed for irrigated rice schemes. New crops would not be introduced
under the project but possibilities of diversification including cassava, the
production of which has fallen but for which improved pest and disease



- 32 -
resistant varieties have been introduced from Nigeria, would be tested through
the research program.
5.02     Agricultural Practices:  Apart from vagaries of climate, the main
agronomic problems facing farmers and contributing to present low yields
include an insufficient supply of improved seed of good germination capacity;
low plant population; inappropriate use of animnal implements; and low overall
and incorrect application of fertilizer. Most cultivation is done manually
and with constraints at peak times, particularly planting and weeding, the
standard of land preparation and weeding is beLow optimum (the weeding problem
has been exacerbated by increasing use of seeders). The project would address
the foregoing through investments in improving seed multiplication, reorgan-
izing the supply of inputs and equipment, and upgrading extension services;
the latter would promote improved cultural practices and simple crop input
packages, based on research work at Sapu and fertilizer trials in neighboring
Senegal.
5.03     Further use of animal drawn equipment would be encouraged through the
extension and medium term credit program (para 4.22) and, in contrast to RDP
under which full implement packages were obligatory, farmers would be able to
purchase what they needed and could afford. Equipment suitable for donkey and
horse traction would be supplied in addition to that for oxen. In addition to
the 20% of farmers who already use such equipment, another 30% of project
farmers would be expected to acquire equipment. Extension services would
place special emphasis on training farmers in better use of implements and
supplementary feeding of oxen. The Animal Health and Production Department,
which receives outside donors assistance for the purchase of drugs and vacc-
ines, would provide preventive and curative veterinary care for oxen.
5.04     Possibilities of considerable savings in cereal crop storage losses
have been identified and extension advice and storage chemicals would be
supplied. Advice on improved storage methods would be expected to follow from
a pilot project which Government has proposed to bilateral donors.
B. Production Specifications
5.05     Groundnuts:  Presently recommended varieties are S28/206, 120 day
variety for oil production, and Philippine Pink, a 90-day confectionary
variety. New promising oil varieties from Senegal are under test (including
73/33, 69/101, 55/437) and testing would continue with the possibility of a
variety being introduced during the project. Quality of replacement seed
(once every four years) would be upgraded through SMU, and farmers would be
encouraged to treat and retain their own seed in village stores.  Recommended
practices include 125kg/ha of hand sorted, dressed seed sown in 66 cm rows
with 125 kg/ha of single superphosphate applied before planting, or at first
weeding; substitution with triple superphosphate to reduce costs would be
tested under the research program. Lifting would be done by hand or by ox-
drawn groundnut lifter, and harvested plants stacked and field dried for
stripping November/December. Cercospora leaf spot is the most serious pre-
harvest problem and treatments are being investigated at Sapu. More important
of the post-harvest problems are fungal infestation (Aspergillus flavus) and
aflotoxin contamination. Speed of harvesting is essential to reduce these



- 33 -
risks and farmers would be advised on improved storage and handling; treat-
ment against groundnut seed beetle (Carydon Serratus) would be carried at all
storage points. Stocks of early maturing Philippine Pink, or alternative
variety, for release in years of late rains would be established.  Groundnut
yields would be expected to rise from about a 1,000 kg/ha in shell under
traditional cultivation to 1,400 kg/ha with improved manual system and
1,500 kg/ha under animal traction.  The yield potential of S28/206 has been
shown to be about 2,700 kg/ha, under good management conditions.
5.06     Maize:  The area under maize is increasing, encouraged by demand as a
local food and animal feed stuff, and as a substitute for early millet due to
lower bird damage. Two varieties,Jeka, a local selection, and Nigerian Com-
posite B, are grown. Recommendations include 20 to 25 kg per ha dressed seed
sown at 90 cm by 30 cm thinned to two plants per station with 100 kg of NPK
(26.14.0) applied at planting and top dressing of 50-100 kg/ha urea at early
flowering. Two weedings a season would normally be necessary and use of
herbicides would be tested. Yields would be expected to rise from 1,000 kg/ha
with local varieties under traditional cultivation to 2,000 kg/ha with NCB
fully fertilized. Results of work in Senegal to develop the technology of
broken maize as a substitute for imported broken rice would be followed up.
5.07     Bottomland rice -- shallow flooded:  Shallow flooded bottomland areas
would continue to be developed with simple bunding and short or medium dura-
tion rice grown according to water regime. Varieties presently recommended
are the short duration SE/302/G (90 days) and the medium duration IR442
(130 days). Dressed seeds would be sown at 80kg/ha and 150 kg/ha NPK
26.14.0 applied as a split dressing -- 75 kg at planting and 75 kg at the
second weeding, or approximately 40 days. Major pests are birds, while
localized serious outbreaks of armyworm and stem borer would warrant spot
spraying. Yields would be expected to increase from 850 kg/ha to 1,400 kg/ha
for short-duration varieties and from 1,000 to 1,750 kg/ha for medium-duration
varieties.
5.08     Swamp (deep flooded) and mangrove rice:  Deep flooded swamp rice is
grown particularly in the inland depressions of MacCarthy Island Division
which are persistently flooded in the wet season up to a height of more than
one meter. Mangrove rice is grown along the Gambia river where conditions are
relatively salt-free for 5 to 6 months of the year. Transplanting of the
latter must await until sufficient salt has been leached and timing varies
from year to year, so that there is a problem in timing nursery bed sowing and
risk of overgrown seedlings. Varieties ROK5 and PHAR-COM-EN, both of which
are somewhat salt-tolerant, are recommended sown at 80 kg/ha. Water control
is not possible and fertilization not recommended. Emphasis would be placed
on the introduction of better seed and on improved seedling production and
plant population. Yields would be expected to increase from 700 kg/ha to
about 1,000 kg/ha for mangrove rice and from 1,000 kg/ha to 1,500 kg/ha for
swamp rice.
5.09     Sorghum and Millets:  In the absence of tested and acceptable
improved varieties local types would continue to be used. Improvement in
yields of early (Suna, 90/100 days) and late millets (SANYO, 120 days) and
sorghum would be expected through seed dressing and improved cultural



34 -
practices. The present fertilizer recommendations of 100 kg NPK (26.14.0)
would be subject to an evaluation to be carried out in the first year of the
prcject complementing studies already underway by FAO. With the elimination
of fertilizer subsidies application of fertilizer to sorghum and millet would
be unlikely to be economic for farmers. Major pests are blister beetles
(Meloidae) for which spraying would be stepped up, and Striga weed for which
improved crop rotation would be encouraged.
5.10     Cotton:  The BGA 952 variety would be expected to be replaced with
L/299/10/75 developed in Senegal which has a higher yield potential and fiber
out-turn. Recommended fertilizer rates are 150 kg/ha of NPKSB (8.18.27.5)
plus 50 kg per ha of urea. Pests would be controlled with five to six ultra
low volume (ULV) sprayings using a pyrethroid insecticide followed by a
mixture of pyrethroid and systemic insecticide. Better land preparation and
weeding together with earlier planting would form the basis for improved
cultural practices. Use and introduction of herbicides would be tested during
the project. Average yields would be expected to rise from 600-800 kg/ha seed
cotton to reach about 1,100 kg/ha.
C. Farm Labor
5.11     Of the average 11 member farm family unit, about seven provide farm
labor of which about half are women. The crop development program takes
account of potential labor constraints, and area expansion (3,800 ha) in
advance of population increase is linked to the introduction of animal trac-
tion equipment.  Labor budgets for typical farm families show the proposed
cropping improvements to be within the capacity of traditional supplies of
labor.  In an initial attempt to reduce women's work in pounding of cereals,
the project makes provision for the purchase of grinding mills on credit.
Available mills are of relatively large capacity suitable only for the larger
villages and the agricultural engineering unit would attempt to identify less
expensive models suitable for smaller groups.
D. Yields and Production
5.12     Crop Yields:  The main impact of the project would be to increase
crop yields with the adoption of improved cultural practices, better quality
seed and fertilizer. Yield increases on farms raoving from traditional to
improved technology would average 30%-40%. Average yields with and without
the project after discounting for a 40% crop faLlure one year in five, and
yield potential based on the results of research at Yundum and Sapu are as
shown in Table 5 below.



- 35 -
Table 5: YIELD ASSUNPTIONS
Average
Present       With            Potential          Potential
Average     Project    (Progressive farmers)  (Research)
---------------------------kg/ha-------------------------
Groundnut              1,120      1,220               1,800              2,700
Cotton                   750      1,100               2,000              3,000
Maize                  1,180      1,600               2,500              2,800
Sorghum                  730        750               1,500              1,800
Millet:  Early           520        530                 900              1,100
Late           655         680               1,100              1,300
Rice (paddy):
Bottomlands     980-1,200  1,150-1,400         1,500-1,750        2,000-2,500
Swamp              1,000      1,080               2,000              3,000
Mangrove             680        730               1,500              2,700
5.13     By full development, about 70% of farming units would be expected to
have adopted improved groundnut technology reaching yield levels of between
1,200 and 1,500 kg/ha as compared with some 40% at present, bringing the
country-wide average from 1,120 to 1,220 kg/ha. Evaluated on this basis, an
overall increase in national yield of about 11% is projected; given normal
weather conditions this should be easily achievable.  Yields, which are
averaged, should be expected to vary among farmers and from year to year.
5.14     Incremental Production.  Incremental production expected from the
project would be about 13,200 tons of groundnuts per year at full development
(PY7), 2,100 tons of cotton and 7,900 tons of cereaLs. Incremental production
is due primarily to increase in yields; growth in area of cereals is assumed
to be the same with and without the project (Annex 3, Page 1), only groundnut
area would be increased as a result of uptake of animal traction equipment.
Table 6: INCREMENTAL CROP PRODUCTION
(At Full Development - PY7)
Percentage
Increase over    Increase over
Without    With    Without Project  Without Project
Present  Project   Project      Situation         Situation
-------------------------Thousand tons-----------------------
Groundnuts      106.0    118.1      132.3         13.2               11
Cotton            1.9       2.3       4.4          2.1               91
Maize              9.5     11.8       15.6         3.8               32
Sorghum          12.4      14.3      14.8          0.5                3
Millet            16.4     18.7       19.3         0.6                3
Paddy            21.0      21.4      24.4          3.0               14



- 36 -
E. Environmental Considerations
5.15     In raising productivity, the project would help to mitigate the
adverse effects of increasing population and traditional "slash and burn"
shifting cultivation on the environment. Through encouraging conservation of
crop residues, the project would promote some stabilization of traditional
shifting cultivation. Increased productivity should also encourage a less
profligate use of land. Population pressure is already high, such that an
increase in intensity of cultivation would increase the danger of soil
erosion. The project would make full use of the soil and water management
capability being built up within MOA, under a USAID funded project, and use of
animal traction would provide the basis for ultimately developing an inte-
grated agricultural/livestock system. Insecticides would be limited to seed
dressings, protection of crops in store, and spraying of cotton against field
pests. The quantities and types to be used would be selected to minimize the
effect on the environment.
VI.  DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Demand
6.01     The Gambia is a net food importer, currently importing about 30,000
mt of rice annually. With annual population growth rate of about 2.7%, net
imports of food wauld be expected to increase to about 40,000 mt annually by
1991 without the project. Incremental food production under the project
(para 5.14) would easily be absorbed by domestic consumption, reduce the
quantity of food to be imported, and result in foreign exchange savings.
6.02     Over the years, The Gambia has become the biggest consumer per capita
of rice among all the Sahelian countries. Average per capita consumption is
currently about 95 kg compared with 19 kg for the Sahel as a whole. Two
thirds of total food consumption is rice, 52% of which is imported. Besides a
natural preference for rice, one of the major factors for high per capita rice
consumption was the highly subsidized price of both imported and local rice.
This situation is likely to change with gradual elimination of rice subsidiza-
tion which started in 1982/83 (paras. 6.07 and 6.08). The price of other
cereals are set by market forces of supply and demand. The latter results in
fluctuating production and consumption.
B. Marketing
6.03     Groundnuts are the major export crop and account for about 90% of The
Gambia's foreign exchange earnings. GPMB has the monopoly of exporting all
groundnuts from The Gambia. It purchases groundnuts through the cooperative
societies and licensed buying agents who buy groundnuts in shell from farmers
at designated buying points all over the country and transport them by road or
river to GPMB depots. The Gambia's export in metric tons comprise about 63%
of shelled groundnuts, 17% of groundnut oil and 20% groundnut cake and are
exported mainly to United Kingdom and EEC countries. The world market for
groundnuts is generally influenced by seasonal fluctuations in world groundnut



- 37 -
production. The incremental groundnuts export due to the project would not be
adversely affected by the world trend because The Gambia enjoys strong tradi-
tional trading ties with EEC and the incremental production would be too small
to have any impact in the international groundnuts market. The commodity
price projections prepared by IBRD (January 1984) show that, in 1981 constant
dollars, groundnut oil prices rise from US$749/mt in 1983 to US$830/mt in
1990.
6.04     Incremental food crops would be mainly for home consumption and the
remainder would be marketed through the existing network of private traders,
which is adequate for handling the increased volume. The Gambia Produce
Marketing Board (GPMB) is also involved in marketing of the other cash
crops. It buys locally produced paddy which it processes and sells locally.
It also sells imported rice wholesale to licensed agents who sell it directly
to consumers. All export sales of agricultural commodities are also handled
by GPMB.
6.05     The system operates well but has structuraL weaknesses, the main ones
being: (i) lack of storage facilities at primary market level; and (ii) inade-
quate transport to ensure timely evacuation of groundnuts from buying points
to depots. To overcome the storage problem the project would provide funds
for the construction or rehabilitation of seccos (buying stations). GPMB
received 33 lorries through bilateral assistance from Japan in 1983 and that
has alleviated the transportation problems. Strengthening of the cooperatives
under the project to speed up the evacuation of groundnuts would also help to
reduce some of the imperfections of the marketing s3ystem.
C. Prices
6.06     Groundnuts:  Government sets producer prices for groundnuts upon the
advice of a pricing committee headed by GPMB. Over the years the policy on
producer prices has been one of fairly persistent increases. Due considera-
tions were not given to world market prices, costs of subsidies on fertilizer,
prices in neighboring Senegal, and GPMB margins for groundnut processing and
marketing in setting producer prices. The result was that in 1983/84, Govern-
ment was forced to recude producer price for groundnuts by 15% to D450 due to
the desperate financial situation of GPMB. However, with Government's commit-
ment to phase out fertilizer subsidies by fiscal year 1987/88, the proposed
study (paras 4.27 and 4.28) would formulate a pricing policy which ensures
that producer price for groundnuts is set annually at a level that gives
adequate incentives to farmers and sufficient margins to GPMB. The projected
economic farmgate prices of about D 877/mt in the mid-1990s would sustain
moderate increases in the producer price for groundnuts which is projected to
increase to about D620/mt by 1990. For the economic analysis, a composite
price has been calculated based on the average percentage of exports of nuts,
oil and cake.
6.07     Rice:  Traditionally, rice pricing policy has been oriented towards
encouraging local production; this was achieved by systematically maintaining
producer prices at about 25% above import parity prices. At the same time,
the consumer price was kept low and stable, owing to large subsidies which the
Government can no longer afford at a time when its "perequation" system is in



- 38 -
lasting deficit. This policy, however, is evolving very quickly in the
direction of progressively aligning consumer prices to the cost of imports and
to the real cost of local production.  To thi.s end, in 1982/83, the Government
removed the D 282/mt subsidy on imported rice which sold at about D 20/mt
above import parity price in that year. The Government has also decided to
phase out the subsidy on fertilizers (para. 35.04a above), which,coupled with
the need to maintain adequate incentives to farmers, will induce an immediate
increase in the price of paddy by about 10%. Under these conditions, the
price of rice at the consumer level should be pegged to the world market
price.
6.08     Consumer Food:  Consumer food prices (rice, flour, groundnuts, oil
and meat) have been controlled by the Government for many years as a response
to rapidly increasing prices and efforts to control price inflation.  The new
pricing policy objective of Government is to remove all controls on consumer
food prices. Current indications, and in particular the rice pricing policy
mentioned above, are that Government will henceforth allow the market forces
of supply and demand to determine the future prices of consumer food.
6.09     The economic prices for farm produce used in the calculation of the
economic rate of return (ERR) are shown in Table 7. They are based on
existing domestic prices and trends and IBRD forecasts. In the ERR calcula-
tions, border prices were adjusted by the economic costs of transportation,
distribution and processing to determine the net economic prices. Further
details on these prices and the underlying assumptions are set out in Working
Paper No.12.
Table 7: ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICES
Output                               1984        1985      1990     1995
(Constant 1981i Dalasis Per Metric Ton)
Unshelled Groundnuts                 907.0       706.0    898.0    877.0
Paddy                                504.0       471.0    708.0    698.6
Maize                                600.0       530.0    610.0    610.0
Sorghum-Millet                       579.0       523.0    593.0    593.0
Cotton                             1,478.0    1,311.0  1,486.0  1,526.0
6.10     Inputs:  The Gambia imports all fertilizer and agricultural chemi-
cals. The prices of these farm inputs are highly subsidized. About 5,000
tons each of SSP and compound fertilizer and 275 tons of urea were distributed
to farmers for the 1981/82 agricultural season and resulted in a subsidy of
about D3.8 million (US$1.7 million). This subsidy has been paid out of GPMB
reserves which are now depleted. The level of subsidy is clearly beyond
Government's means under the current economic problems the country is experi-
encing. More recently, however, as of August 1982, Government reduced the
subsidies. Government has agreed to gradually phase out subsidies by the end
of PY4 (1987/88 fiscal year) (para. 3.10).



- 39 -
D. Financial Returns to Farmers
6.11     The likely impact of the project on financial returns to farmers has
been analysed on the basis of crop budgets (Annex 5A) and indicative farm
models summarized in Annex 5B. The analysis has been made on the assumption
that fertilizer subsidies would be removed, that cereal prices would rise in
line with Bank forecasts and groundnuts producer prices would be increased at
least sufficiently to maintain comparability with competing cereals. Crop
budgets (Annex 5A) show acceptable returns on adoption of improved technology
(both cultural practices and fertilizer) for groundnuts, maize, cotton and
rice. With fertilizer subsidy eliminated, use of compound fertilizers on
local varieties of sorghum and millet would be unlikely to give adequate
financial returns to farmers and benefits would be limited to adoption of
improved cultural practices. The farm models (Annex 5B) show the effect of
adoption of improved technology in three indicative situations: (i) manual
cultivation on light soils (cropping restricted to groundnut and millet/
sorghum) in LRD and NBD; (ii) introduction of donkey traction and expansion of
area cultivated on lighter soils in MID, LRD and NBD where also access to
swamps; and (iii) introduction of oxen traction and expansion of area
cultivated on good soils (potential for maize and/or cotton) in MID, LRD and
URD. Farmers simply adopting improved technology without introduction of
animal traction or expansion of area (Model (I)) would be expected to increase
their net returns by about 21% while cash surplus after home consumption would
rise by over 50%; net return on incremental family labor is about D 5.2 per
manday. Where animal traction was introduced and area expanded (models II and
III) net returns would rise by over 50% and cash surplus after home consump-
tion would be expected to double. For details see Annex 5B and Working Paper
No. 1.
E. Financial Implications on Support Institutions
6.12     The project would have a positive impact on GCU and GPMB.  The
organizational and financial reorganization of GCU, and the technical assis-
tance provided under the project would make GCU a financially viable insti-
tution. This is supported by GCU's financial projections which show both
short-term and long-term profitability (see Working Paper No. 5). The project
related activities of GPMB are profitable (Annex 6). In addition, the commit-
ment of Government to eliminate fertilizer subsidies by the end of 1987/88
fiscal year would have a positive impact on GPMB long-term financial
viability.
F. Financial Implications for Government
6.13     The project would generate Government revenue in the form of incre-
mental foreign exchange earnings by GPMB and taxes from licensed traders even
though there are no direct taxes levied on the commodities that would be
produced under the project. In addition, evidence from RDP confirms that
there would also be secondary economic activities that would be induced by the
project in the construction, rice and groundnut processing, trading, and other
servicing sectors, thereby generating incremental revenues from direct and
indirect taxation. Government cash flow (Annex 6) shows that the project
would generate an average annual net cash surplus of about D2.1 million



- 40 -
(US$0.6 million) from PY1 to PY10. The annual contribution from Government
to the development costs of the project would average about DO.7 million
(US$0.2 million) (Working Paper 10). The recurrent costs of ADPII would be
about D 1.3 million (US$0.4 million) at the end of the investment period and
would cover mainly administration, extension and other services necessary for
maintaining the production levels achieved by the project. Therefore, the
incremental revenues are expected to fully cover the recurrent costs of the
project.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Overall Benefits
7.01     The principal direct benefit from the project would be an increase in
crop production. In the year of full development, it is estimated that about
10,500 farm families would earn significantly higher income (para. 3.02) under
various crop improvement and credit programs. Incremental annual groundnut
production estimated at D11.8 million and cotton at D3.1 million in constant
1984 terms by the year of full development would increase foreign exchange
earnings. Additional employment would also be created by the increased
activities which would be induced by the project in other sectors such as
trading, rice processing, and construction.
7.02     The Gambia is a net importer of food.  The incremental food crop
production, especially rice, would generate annual net foreign exchange
savings of about D1.8 million in constant 1984k terms. Incremental food crop
production would also augment farm family nutrition and improve health condi-
tions in rural areas.
7.03     In addition to these quantifiable benefits, the project would bring
about a number of non-quantifiable benefits sutch as strengthening of agricul-
tural institutions, mainly through reorganization of Ministry of Agriculture,
rehabilitation of the cooperative societies with a view to developing them
into fully integrated self-financing multi-purpose farming services organi-
zations, and strengthening agricultural research capacity in the country.
B. Economic Rate of Return
7.04     The economic rate of return is estimated to be about 23% (Annex 7,
Table 1). In calculating the project's economic rate of return, only the
project's directly quantifiable incremental benefits have been included. All
project costs except those of the research component together with technical
assistance associated with this component, have been included. Costs are net
of taxes but include physical contingencies.  Costs and benefits have been
computed over twenty years in constant 1984 prices, with project operations
after the five-year development period needing smaller support services to
maintain the momentum achieved. Incremental crop output has been valued at
the economic farmgate prices shown in Table 7 and the basis of their deriva-
tion is in Working Paper No. 12. The incremental farm labor requirements have
been included as an economic cost and valued at D5.2 per manday. This is the



- 41 -
rate which farm labor earns in the agriculture sector during peak periods and
which can therefore be considered as a prudent indicator of the average
opportunity cost of labor. The resultant cost and benefit streams are
presented in Working Paper No. 12.
7.05     The economic rate of return for the Recurrent National Fertilizer
Imports has not been calculated as the benefits cannot be directly quanti-
fied. However, it will increase national crop production and thus enhance
both the farmers' incomes and Government's revenues.
C. Risks and Sensitivity
7.06     Since the project is a follow-up of RDP and builds on the lessons
learned, the normal risks associated with similar development projects are
minimized. The project introduces simple agricultural techniques which do not
require major changes in cropping patterns, thus associated technical risks
are also minimal. Agronomic recommendations made in the project are based on
experimental results and experience in the country. However, there remains a
risk of severe declines in crop production either through natural calamities
such as drought, or other factors such as a decline in crop prices, or fer-
tilizer use below recommended levels due to a gradual phasing out of sub-
sidies. The risk of a drop in production due to drought has been considered
in computing incremental crop production, by assuming a 40% reduction in total
crop production every five years. The risk from a drop in fertilizer use is
reduced by built-in monitoring, the result of which would be reviewed each
year when deciding on the speed of phasing out subsidies.
7.07     Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the impact of various
adverse factors on the economic rate of return (ERR) and determine which
variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. The numerical
results presented in Annex 7, Table 2 indicate that the project as designed is
resilient to the possible risks and would remain economically viable under a
number of adverse conditions such as decrease in project benefits and increse
in project costs. A 20% fall in benefits or a 20% rise in costs would reduce
ERR to about 15% and 17% respectively, which are above the average opportunity
cost of capital of 10% in The Gambia. A two-year lag in benefits reduces ERR
to about 14%. Alternatively, the sensitivity analysis of the ERR to change in
costs or benefits, expressed in terms of switching values at the opportunity
cost of capital (10%) shows that the project could withstand a shortfall of
benefits of 33% combined with rise of costs of 49%. A more detailed
sensitivity analysis of possible outcomes is presented in Annex 7, Table 2.
VIII. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     Assurances and Agreements Obtained at Negotiations
(a)  Government would gradually reduce and by June 30, 1988 have
eliminated fertilizer subsidies and also announce the price
adjustment for fertilizer by not later than December 1, annually
(para 3.04a);



- 42 -
(b) Government would allocate annually sufficient amounts of foreign
exchange to meet the cost of imported fertilizer (para 3.10);
(c) That prior to engaging any consultant or technical assistance staff,
whose qualifications and experience should be acceptable to the
Association, detailed Terms of Reference for their employment would
be reviewed and agreed with the Association; consultants' reports
would also be reviewed with the Association to examine possible
implementation implications (para. 3.14);
(d) That the Special Accounts would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association (para. 3.16);
(e) Statements of Expenditures would be properly maintained and audited
(para. 3.18);
(f)  Government would make appropriate allocations in the MOA budget and
release the necessary funds to MOA quarterly in advance (para. 3.19);
(g)  Government would make timely allocations of foreign exchange for the
importation of farm inputs and other project requirements (para.
3.19);
(h) Government would cause MOA and GCU to maintain separate accounts for
the project, to have the accounts audited by independent auditors,
and to send audited accounts to the Association within six months of
the end of each financial year (para. 3.20);
(i) Government would appoint a Civil Works Administrator with qualifi-
cations and experience acceptable to the Association for three years
(para. 4.02);
(j) Government would establish a Project Coordinating Unit, a Project
Coordination Committee, a Project Coordinaation Working Committee, and
Divisional Coordinating Committees (para 4.02);
(k) The Association would be consulted prior to any reorganization of the
Ministry of Agriculture, and a time-based implementation plan for the
proposed reorganization would be agreed with the Association by
December 1984 (para 4.03);
(1) The Association would be consulted in drawing up the annual research
program for Sapu and outstations (para 4.13);
(m)  A pricing policy statement to recover at least operating and distri-
bution costs of certified and improved seeds would be submitted by
December 1984 for approval of the AssocieLtion (para 4.16);
(n) Gambia Cooperative Union would establish and maintain a Revolving
Loans Fund (para 4.23);



- 43 -
(o)  Interest rates and margins of GCU would be reviewed annually with the
Association and adjusted as necessary (para 4.24);
(p)  Review of GCU credit operations would be carried out at the end of
the first project year (para 4.24);
(q)  Gambia Cooperative Union would execute subsidiary credit agreements
with participating primary cooperative societies (para 4.24);
(r)  Government would review with the Association the GPMB study
recommendations and agree on an implementation schedule within three
months from completion of the study (para 4.28);
(s)  Reports would be submitted in accordance with formats agreed to at
negotiations (para 4.30);
(t)  Government would prepare and furnish to the Association a Project
Completion Report promptly after project completion (4.30); and
(u)  Government would carry out a major review of the project not later
than June 30, 1986, and agree on an action program with the
Association for the remainder of the project period by not later than
October 30, 1986 (para 4.31).
8.02     Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  That all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of IFAD and
Italian Aid had been fulfilled (para 3.16);
(b)  Special Accounts had been opened with the Central Bank (para 3.16);
(c)  A project accountant had been appointed (para 3.19);
(d)  A PCU had been established and a Project Director had been appointed
(para 4.02);
(e)  A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and Project Coordination
Working Committee had been established (jpara 4.02);
(f)  Merging of rainfed crop extension services (para 4.03); and
(g)  Government had executed a Financing Agreement with GCU (para 4.24).
8.03     Conditions of Disbursements
(a)  Agreement on an action program following the mid-term review should
be a condition of continuing disbursement after October 31, 1986 for
all project components except contracts specifically approved by the
Association before that date (para 4.30).
8.04     Under these assurances and conditions, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$9.4 million.



-44-
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
PROJECT COSTS
(D '000)
PY-1           PY-2          PY-3          PY-4           PY-5           Total             Foreign Exchangc
Amount 
1)  Crop Development
Fertilizers                                577.0         666.0         857.3        1052.5        1176.6          4329.4         4329.4             100
Seeds                                      145.6         233.2         165.2         153.4          177.1          874.5           -                 -
Chemicals                                  102.0         137.2         181.4         218.7          261.0          900.3          900.3             100
DcDkey and Oxen Packages                   441.0         882.0        1543.5        2201.0         2205.0         7276.5         4365.9              60
Others                                      32.0          84.3          59.4          59.6           59.8          295.1          206.6              70
Subtotal                         1297.6        2002.8        2806.9        3689.1         3879.4        13675.8          9802.2              72
2) Extension and Training
Personnel                                  540.3         607.3         425.3         492.3           85.3         2152.5         2044.9              95
Vehicle and Equipment                     1950.0         155.3           -           624.4            -           2929.7         2456.7              90
Buildings                                 1550.2        1100.0        1066.8           -              -           3717.0         2601.9              70
operation and Maintenance                  535.3         535.3         535.3         513.1          513.1         2632.1         1737.2              66
Subtotal                         4575.8        2398.9        2027.4        1630.8          598.4        11231.3          8840.7              79
3) Cooperative Development and Credit
Personnel                                  413.9         617.9         629.9         295.9          295.9         2253.5         1156.0              51
Vehicle and Equipment                      653.9           -            67.2          67.2            -            788.3          709.5              90
Buildings                                  470.7         448.5         837.8           --             -           1757.0         1229.9              70
operation and Maintenance                  286.2         286.2         322.6         359.0          359.0         l6'3.0         1064.6              66
Subtotal                         1824.7        1352.6        1857.5         722'.1          654.9         6411.8         4160.0              65
4) Agricultural Researclh
Personnel                                  183.6         183.6         252.6         252.6          252.6         1125.0          207.0              18
Vehicle and Equipment                      210.5         192.4           -            81.2           83.2          569.3          512.4              90
Buildings                                 2456.8         631.5         793.0           -              -           3881.3         2716.9              70
Operation and Maintenance                  210.5         210.0         230.0         205.0          205.0         1060.5          699.9              66
Subtotal                         3061.4        1217.5        1275.6         540.8           540.8         6636.1         4136.2              62
5)  Seed Multiplication Unit
Personnel                                  219.3         219.3         168.3         219.3          168.3          994.5          149.2              15
Vehicle and Equipment                      869.1          93.7         114.0         445.5            -           1522.3         1370.0              90
Buildings                                  406.5         288.2         199.5         133.0            -           1027.2          719.0              70
Operation and Maintenance                  278.5         288.5         296.5         303.9          308.5         1476.0          974.2              66
Subtotal                         1773.4          889.7         778.3       1101.7           476.7         5020.0         3212.4              64
6)  Proje          inating Unit
P--nW.mel                                  445.5         445.5         853.5         105.5          105.5         1955.5         1428.0              73
Vehicle and Equipment                      159.1           -             -            72.8            -            231.9          208.7              90
Buildings                                    -             -             -             -              -              -              -                -
Operation and Maintenance                   70.8          70.8          70.8          70.8           70.8          354.0          233.6              66
Subtotal                           675.4         516.3         924.3         249.1          176.3         2541.4         1870.3              74
7) Project Monitoring & Evaluation Unit
Personnel                                  430.2         430.2          90.2          90.2           90.2         1131.0          680.0              60
Vehicle and Equipment                      173.4           3.0           3.0          92.1            3.0          274.5          247.0              90
Buildings                                    -             -             -             -              -              -              -                -
Operation and Maintenance                   51.2          51.2          51.2          51.2           51.2          256.0          169.0              66
Subtotal                          654.8         484.4         144.4          233.5          144.4         1661.5         1096.0              66
8)  PPF                                             2345.0           -             -             -              -           2345.0          2345.0            100
Total Base Cost                               16208.1        8862.2        9814.5        8167.1         6471.0        49522,9         35462.8              72
Physical Contingencies                     834.3         441.3         514.6         342.2          273.6         2406.0         1815.4              76
Price Contingencies                       1295.9        1797.9        3205.7        3679.9         3833.7        13813.1         8582.9              62
Subtotal Project Costs          18338.3       11101.4       13534.8       12189.2        10578.3        65742.0         45861.1              70
Recurrent National Fertilizer Imports   10226.1             11831.5       13478.1            -              -          35535.7        35535.7             100
Total Project Costs                     28564.5       22932.9       27012.9       12189.2        10578.3        101277.7        81329.8              80
(USS million equivalent)                          8.2           6.6           7.7           3.5            3.0            29.0           23.6             80



-45-
GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement 1/
(US$ Million)
IDA/IBRD        Quar-  Disbur-        Cumulative 2/
Fiscal Year    ter    sement 2/        Disbursement
0
FY85        1st "       1.00           1.00
2nd "        .20           1.20
3rd     "   .20            1.40
4th     "   .20            1.60                                       ,
FY86        1st "        .25           1.85
2nd "        .25           2.10                                                                                          co
3rd "        .35           2.45
4th "        .35           2.80                                                              ,
FY87        1st "        .40           3.20
2nd          .40           3.60                        Estimated Project             -
3rd "        .45           4.05                        Disbursement               -
4th "        .45           4.50                        Profile                /                                              o0
/                                ~~~~~~~~~~~0
FY88        1st "        .45           4.95
2nd "        .45           5.40                    .                               West Africa Agriculture -
3rd "        .45           5.85                                      /   /         Area Development
4th "        .45           6.30                                         /          Profile
FY89        1st "        .40           6.70
2nd "        .40           7.10                                    /
3rd "        .35           7.45                                                                                        _
4th  '       .35           7.80                               /
FY90        1st "        .30           8.10                            /
2nd          .25           8.35                / 
3rd "        .25           8.60                       /
4th     "   .25            8.85
FY91        1st "        .15           9.00
2nd "        .15           9.15         --
3rd          .15           9.30     .-
4th          .10           9.4               i
1985        1986        1987         1988        1989        1990         1991  |>
1/ Assuming credit effectiveness on July 1, 1984.
2/ Based on IDA disbursement profile for area developments projects in West Africa modified to reflect the PPI repayment
of VS $ 0.7 Million , and IDA contribution to the Special Account of US $ 0.3 Million/



-46-
Th8E GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ?ROJECT II
Crop Area ('000 h.) and Crop Prodoction ('000 tot) With and Without Project 8/
PYO      ------ PY1 -------   ------ PY2 ------    ------ PY3 ------    ------ PY4 ------    ------ PY5 ------    ------ PY6 ------    ------ PY7 ------
W/O        WtO            8       V/3            4       W/3             W      A/O             W       W/O            W       W/O            W       W/O             W
CROUNDNUTS                 (kg/ho)
Traditional              (1.000)                38.0         38.2       36.7        38.5       35.4        38.8       33.0        39.0       30.h         39.2       29.5        39.5       26.8        39.8       22.8
Stage 1                  (1,200)                19.0        18.7       18.3         19.3       17.7        i8.8       17.0        19.6        15.3        18.8       13.7        19.8       12.8        20.0       11.3
Stage 2                  (1,350)                14.2         15.5       15.5        35.7       16.7        16.9       18.0        17.1       20.4         18.6       23.1        18.7       24.6        19.0       27.4
Stage 3                  (1,500)                23.8        24.1        26.0        24.5       28.4        25.0       32.0        25.3       35.7        25.9        39.0        26.0       42.8        26.7       47.0
Total Area               (ha '0DO) I/           95.3         96.5       96.5        98.0       98.2        99.5      100.0       101.0      102.0       102.5       105.3       104.0      107.0       105.5      108.5
Prcductior               (rune '003) 2/        106.4       108.4      109.1        113.1      112.0       112.1      115.6       113.8      119.6        115.7      124.8       117.5      128.4       119.1      132.3
Average tielda           (kg/he) 2/          1,120       1,123      1,130        1,123      1,140       1,126      1,156       1,126      1,172       1,128      1,184        1,129      1,200       1,129      1,220
Ittre -entol Production (tans '000)             -                       0.7                     1.9                    3.5                    5.8                     9.1                   10.9                   13.2
'IAI ZE
Tr dItiotaO              (1.000)                 5.0          5.2        5.0         5.5        4.9         5.7        4.3         6.0        3.4          6.3        2.1         6.6        2.4         6.8        2.6
Stage 1                  11,330)                 1.0           -         0.2          -         0.4          -         0.8          -         1.2           -         1.6
stage 2                                          1,830)  1.3  1.3       1.3          -         0.2          -         0.4          -         0.8                     1.2          -         1.6
Stale 3                  (2.000)                 1.0          2.0        2.0         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.2         3.0         3.6         3.0        4.4         3.0        5.6         3.0        7.2
Totol Areo               (ha '000) 3/            8.0          8.2        8.2         8.5        8.5         8.7        8.7         9.0         9.0         9.3        9.3         9.6        9.6         9.8        9.8
Pr-doction               (tons '00) 2/           9.5        10.1        10.2        10.6       10.9        10.8       11.6        11.0        12.7        11.3       14.2        11.6       15.2        11.8       15.6
Average Yields           (kg/ha) 2/          1,834       1,23h      1,245        1,244     1,283        1,232      1,334       1,226      1,414       1,216      1,529        1,207      1,539       1,201      1,595
Inretentanl Prod-uption (tons '000)               -                     0.1                     0.3                    0.8                     1.7                    2.9                    3.6                    3.8
SOR HD4
Traditional              (720)                  14.0        14.4        14.2        14.7       14.1        15.1       13.7        15.5       12.9         15.9       11.7        16.3       12.1        16.7       12.5
Stage 1                  (900)                   3.3          3.0        3.2         3.0        3.6         3.0        1.4         3.0        3.6          3.0        7.2         3.0        7.3         3.0        7.2
Total Atea               (ha '000) 4/             7.0        17.4       17.4        17.7       17.7        18.1       18.1        18.5        18.5        18.9       18.9        19.3       19.3        19.7       19.7
Prod-ction              (1vns '003) 2/          12.4        12.7        12.7        12.9       13.0        13.2       13.3        13.3        13.8        13.7       14.2        14.0       14.5        14.3       14.8
Average Yields           (kg/ha) 2/            730          29        7229         29         732         228        733         228        745          735        254         727        754         727        751
Itttreetttol Preduttlort (nova '00)              -                      -                      O.1                    0.1                    0.3                    0.5                     0.5                    0.5 1
MILLET ()0NA)
TredittonoL              (550)                  10.0        10.2        10.2        10.4       10.0        10.5        9.8        10.7         9.9        10.9        9.9        11.1       10.1        11.3       10.3
Sta8e 1                  (640)                   2.0          2.0        2.0         2.0        2.4         2.0        2.8         2.0        2.8          2.0        3.0         2.0        3.0         2.0        3.0
Total Area               (ha '003) 4/           12.0         12.2       12.2        12.4       12.4        12.5       12.5        12.7        12.7        12.9       12.9        13.1       13.1        13.3       13.3
Prodontiho               (tots '005) 2/          6.2         6.3         6.3         6.4        6.5         6.5        6.6         6.6        6.7          6.7        6.8         6.8        6.9         6.8        7.0
Average Yields           (kg/ha) 2/            523          320       520          520        520         520        522         520        524          519        525         519        525         519        526
Iseresenttl Produotlos (to-s '000)                -                       -                     0.1                    0.1                    3.1                    0.1                     0.1                    0.1
MILLET (SANYO)
Traditoi-oI              (700)                  13.5         13.8       13.6        14.2       13.6        14.5       13.1        14.8        12.2        15.2       11.0        15.6       11.4        16.0       11.8
Stage 1                  (820)                   2.0          2.0        2.2         2.0        2.6         2.0        3.4         2.0         4.6         2.0        6.2         2.0        6.2         2.0        6.2
Total Area               (ha '000) 4/           15.5         15.8       15.8        16.2       16.2        16.5       16.5        16.8        16.8        17.2       17.2        17.6       17.6        18.0       18.0
Production               (tots '300) 2/         10.2         10.4       10.4        10.7       13.7        13.9       11.0        11.0        11.3        11.3       11.8        11.6       12.0        11.8       12.3
Anerage Yields           (kg/ha) 2/            658         658        658          660        661         A1         667          657       674         657         684         657        683         656        662
ntre_sett. l Pr-du-tiEn (ons '000)                -                       -                      -                     0.1                    0.3                     0.5                    0.4                    8.5
COTTON
Stage I                  (500)                   0.5         0.5         0.4         0.6        0.5         0.7        08          0.8        0.7          0.8         -          0.8         -          0.8         -
Stage 2                  (800)                   1.5          1.6        1.8         1.7        1.1         1.7        0.8          1.7       0.8          1.9        1.4         1.9        1.2         1.9        1.0
Stage 3                  (12003                   0.5        0.5         0.6         0.5        1.5         0.5        1.N8        0.          2.2         0.5        2.6         0.5        Z.8         0.5        3.0
Total Area               (ha '000) 5/             2.5         2.6        2.8         2.8        3.1         2.9        3.4         3.0         3.7         3.2        4.0         3.2        4.0         3.2        4.0
Pr-d-ietosn              (to-u  '200) 2/          1.9         2.0        2.2         2.1        2.7         2.1        2.8         2.2         3.3         2.3        3.5         2.3        4.0         2.3         4.4
Aterage Yields           (kg/ha) 2/            754         753        775          742        869         732        865         723        892          724        875         724      1,000         724      1,180
IneremeAtal Production (tons '000)                -            -        0.2           -         0.6          -         0.8          -         1.1           _         1.3          -         1.7          -         2.1



PY0      ------ PYI ------    ------ PY2 ------    ------ PY3 ------    ------ PY4 ------    ------ PY5 ------    ------ PY6 ------  - ------ PY7 -----
W/O       W/O            W       W/O            W       W/qO           W       W/O            W      W/O             W      W/O             W      W/O             W
RICE:  Rainfed S.D.        (kg/ha)
Traditional               (850)                3.00        3.05       2.95        3.10       2.80       3.15       2.50        3.20       2.10        3.25       1.45        3.25       1.45        3.25       1.45
Stage 1                   (1,100)               -           -         0.10         -        0.20         -         0.35         -         0.50         -         0.65         -          -           -          -
Stage 2                   (1,250)               -           -          -           -        0.10         -         0.20         -         0.35         -         0.50         -         0.65         -          -
Stage 3                   (1,400)              2.00        2.00       2.00        2.00      2.00        2.00       2X10        2.00       2.30        2.00       2.65        2.00       3.15        2.00       3.80
Total Area                (ha '000) 6/         5.00        5.05       5.05        5.10       5.10       5.15       5.20        5.20       5.20        5.25       5.25        5.25       5.25        5.25       5.25
Production                (tons '000)          4.9         5.0        5.0         5.0        5.1        5.0        5.2         5.1        5.5         5.1        5.8         5.1        5.9         5.1        6.0
Average Yields            (kg/ha) 2/         984         990        990         980     1,000         970      1,009         976      1,060         974      1,100         974      1,130         974      1,148
Incremental Production  (tons '000)             -           -          -           -        0.1          -          0.2         -         0.4          -         0.7          -         0.8          -         0.9
RICE:  Rainfed h.D.         (kg/ha)
TradItional               (1,000)              3.00        3.05       2.95        3.10      2.80        3.15       2.50        3.20       2A10        3.25       1.45        3.25       1.45        3.25       1.45
Stage 1                   (1.350)               -           -         0.10         -        0.20         -         0.35         -         0.50         -         0.65         -          -           -
Stage 2                   (1,500)               -           -          -           -        0.10         -         0.20         -         0.35         -         0.50         -         0.65         -          -
Stage 3                   (1,750)              2.00        2.00      2.00         2.00      2.00        2.00       2.10        2.00       2.30        2.00       2.65        2.00       3.15        2.00       3.80
Total Area                (ha '000) 6/         5.00        5.05       5.05        5.10       5.10       5.15       5.15        5.20       5.20        5.25       5.25        5.25       5.25        5.25       5.25
Production                (tons '000) 2/       6.00        6.00       6.10        6.10       6.20       6.10       6.40        6.20       6.70        6.20       7.10        6.20       7.30        6.20       7.50
Average Yields            (kg/ha) 2/       1,196       1,193      1.199       1,190     1,212       1,187      1,240       1,185      1,295       1,182      1,351       1,182      1,390       1,182      1,419
Incremental Production  (tons '000)             -           -         0.1          -        0.1          -         0.3          -         0.5          -         0.9          -         1.1          -         1.3
RICE:  Swamp
Traditional               (1,000)              5.0         5.0        4.8         5.0       4.6         5.0        4.4         5.0        4.2         5.0        4.0         5.0        4.0         5.0        4.0
Stage 1                   (1,350)               -           -         0.2          -        0.2          -         0.2          -         0.2          -         0.2          -          -           -          -
Stage 2                   (1,500)              1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0       1.2         1.0        1.4         1.0        1.6         1.0        1.8         1.0        2.0         1.0        1.0
Total Area                (ha '000) 7/         6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        o.0
Production                (tons '000) 2/       6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0       6.1         6.0        6.2         6.0        6.3         6.0        6.4         6.0        6.5         6.0        6.5
Average Yields            (kg/ha) 2/       1,000       1,000      1.000      1,000      1,022       1,000      1,038       1.000      1,050       1,000      1,066       1,000      1,083       1,000      1,083
Incremental Production  (tons '000)             -           -          -           -        0.1          -         0.2          -         0.3          -         0.4          -         0.5         -          0.5
RICE: Mangrove
Traditional               (700)                5.0         5.0        4.8         5.0        4.6        5.0        4.4         5.0        4.2         5.0        4.0         5.0        4.0         5.0        4.0
Stage 1                   (900)                 -           -         0.2          -        0.2          -         0.2          -         0.2          -         0.2          -          -           -          -
Stage 2                   (1,000)              1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0        1.2        1.0        1.4         1.0        1.6         1.0        1.8         1.0        2.0         1.0        2.0
Total Area                (ha '000) 7/         6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0
Production                (tons '000) 2/       4.1         4.1        4.2         4.1        4.2        4.1        4.3         4.1        4.3         4.1        4.4         4.1        4.4         4.1        4.4
Average Yields            (kg/ha) 2/         675         675        696         675       696         675        714         675        714         675        733         675        733         675        733
Incremental Production  (tons '000)             -           -         0.1          -        0.1          -         0.2          -         0.2          -         0.3          -         0.3          -         0.3
W/0 - Without Project
W   - With Project
1/  Groundout are increased at 1.5% per annum without project; with project includes effect of increased area due to implements.
2/  Average yield and production reduced by 8% to allow for 40% crop failure every five years.
3/  Maize area assumed to increase without and with project at 3% per annum.
4/  Area of sorghum and millet increased at 2.1% per annum with and without project.
3/  Area cotton increased to initial plea target.
6/ Area of upland rice increased at 1% per annum with and without project.
7. Area of swamp and mangrove rice assumed to remain constant.



GAMBIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
CR_P RECONMEDKATIONS. YIELDS AND LABOR REQUIREMENTS
Currently                                                                    Fertilizer  2]                                                                         Labor Requirent %/
Currentlyasoded  flaration     Seed rate          Spacing                               ate                     Total           Pest &                                  (man days)
recietendsd      Duration      Seed rste          Sping                               MRate                     Nutrients       Disease         Yiolas            Improved       Improved
Varieties          days         kg/ha                MO                  Source        kg/ha     Method          kg/ha                          khe.Control  hg/ha  4  I i       Oxen
GROUNDNUPS  -  Upland Oil Seed                     SE 28-2o6        1, -120         125/138            High
O.60x0.15x1           SSP            125      BNasl          0-22.5-0   )                  ) 1350-1500
-  Upland Confeetiorary               Philippine                                          Iov1
Piak                90          125/138            o.66xo.i5xl           SSP            125       Basal         0-22.5-0   )                  )                   )
MAIZE       -  Upland high fertility               Nigerian             90            25               High                  Co=p           100       Basal )       7 4 0
Casposite           90                             O.75xt.25xl           Urea           100       Top   )       72.   .                         1800-o00            90             7n
-  Upland les fertility               Jeka                 oO            20               Low                   Co,sp          IOU       Basal         72.14.0                         1600-1800           85
O.9x.3x1              Urea           100       Tsp                                                                               T
SOR1IIEU    -  Upland                              Local            100-120          6-8              0.9x0.36x2             Coop          100        Split         26.14.0    )                    1075-1150          75
M1LmT       -  Upland Early (Suno)                 Local             90-100          6-8               0.9x0.25x2            Coop           100       Split         26.i4.o    )       2            775-850           115               _
-  Upland late (Nanvy)                Local            100-120          6-8,              O.W00.25x2            Comp           100       Split         26.14.0    )                    900-1ooo           60
COTIIN      -  Upland                              NJA 592 to be       160          40                0.9x0.20x2             Coop          150        Basal  )
replaced with                                                            Urea            50       Top    )      53 N7415           4            800-1200           140             15
L299/10/75
RICE        - Upland sbort duration                SE-302-G             90           80               0.3-Drills             CooP          150        Split         39.21,0    )14oo                                  122a
-  Upland aedisa duration              IR-442             130        ob-_60T              0.3-Drills            Coop           150       Split         39.21.0                         1750               136
-  Sarp, Tresh flie                                       Ps   )       N8-s_6OT           0.3-Drills            Nil             -                                                      1500               125
Phar-Com-Es        160
-  swup, mangrove                      Rok-5              145 )        60T                0.3-Drills            Nil                                      -         )                   1000              12
Phar-Cm-Es         160
1]   Npacisg: RNw width and within row spacing by obers of plants
4   Cereal Cappusd is 26.14.0; Cotton Cospound 8-18-27-5(S).  Use of fertilizer on Sorghun sod Millet wwold not be re donmended when f-rtilizer subsidy i renovd.
4   All seeds Would be dressed with tungicide or fongicide/insecticide at rates equivalent per ha to: groandnuts - 250 grao, maizo-60 graos;
sorghus & Adillete 20 grams and rise 150 grams. Groundnots seed stored in shell also treated with 250 grano aetellic 2-1/2% dust.  Otherise  oinly
spot treatmsent of millepedes (PeridontoPYge) in grounduots, blister bettles (=eloide) in upland osreals.
4 5-6 ULV applicatimg at 15-18 litres/ba, of Ripc rd and Nipeord/Bidrin or equivalent.
a]   With full technology
B Based on presratisn rp              qVsls ik
7/  Seed rate 201 iess without the project.



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Crop Budgets Per Hectare
Dalasis/hectare (1984 Terms) 1/
GROUNDUTS                  MAIZE                  COTTON          SORGHUM    LATE MILLET EARLY MILLET    RICE(SD)    RICE (SWAMP)
w     W(1)    W(2)        W      W(1)    W(2)        W    W(2)       w    W(1)      W   W(1)         W    W(1)    W     W(1)      W       W(1)
Yield (kg/ha)                    1,000   1,400   1,500   1,000   1,800   2,000    5n0   1,200    770   900    700   820    550 7640 J  C50   1,400   1,000   1,500
Labor (mandays) 2/                 120      135      115       55       80       75      98      125      55    60      52    60    100 - 1157   112          132      100      125
Revenues 3/                        620      868      930      580   1,044   1,160    600   1,440    431   504    392   459    308   358    595                980      700   1,050
Cost of Production
Seed 4/                            62       85       85       13       17       17      10       10       3     4       3      4       3      4     35        53     43         50
Fertilizer and Chemicals 5/        -        70       70       -       203      203    138       258     -       1.5   -        1.5   -        1.5   -        159       -         3.0
Pesticides                         -        -        -        -        -        -      106      213      -     -              -       -              -        -        -        -
Small Tools                        15       22       22       15       22       22      15       22     15    22       15    22       15    22       15       22       15       22
Animal Traction 6/                 -        -        53       -        -        53      -        53      -     -       -      -       -      -       -        -        -        -
Total Cost of Production            77      177      230       28      242      295    269       556      18    27.5   18    27.5   18    27.5   50           234       58       75
Net Return                         543      691      700      552      802      865    331       884    413   476.5  374   431.5  290   330.5   54.5   746             642      975
Net Return Per Manday                 4.5     5.1      6.1    10.0    10.0    11.5    3.4          7.07   7.5   7.9    7.2   7.2    2.9   2.9    4.9            5.6      6.4      7.8
1/  At year of full development (1990 projected price levels) and fertilizer subsidy elimineted.
2/ Based on preparation report.
3/ Prices: Groundnuts D 620tton; Maize D 580/ton; Sorghum and Millet D 560/ton; Rice (paddy) D 700/ton; Cotton D 1200/ton.
4/ Seed rate is 20% less for without project, and price is 20% higher for improved project seeds except groundnut which is 10%.
5/ Fertilizer and seed drawing; see Annex 4 and Working Paper 1.
6/  Cost of Sinehoe and seeder amortized over 7 years (10% interest) plus repairs, supplemental feed and drugs -- one set of equipment and oxen per 4 hectares.
7/ High labor input due to bird rearing.
W       - Without project.
W(1)    - With project (manual).
W(2)    = With project (with animal traction).



-50-
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Indicative Farm Models (in 1984 Terms) 1/
------ MODEL I ------            ------ MODEL II -----             ----- MODEL III -----
ii            W4                 14             14 W               WW
Area (ha)                                     4.5             4.5               2.75           3.55               7.5            .8.5
Man Days (No.)                              387            437                241            333                630            786
--  - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - -- - Dalasis--   - -  - - - - - --  - - - - -  - - -
Output 2/                                 2,088           2,819             1,347          2,447              4,165          6,498
Costs 31                                    199            529                1:14           474                520          1,504
Net Return                                1,889          2,290              1,213          1,973              3,645          4,994
Home Consumption                      1,104          1,104                664            664             1,422           1,422
Cash Return                             785          1,186                549          1,309             2,223          3,572
Net Return per Man Day 4/                      4.9            5.2               5.0            5.9                5.8            6.3
1/  Detailed tables are in Working Paper No. 1.
2/  Prices are as projected for 1990 (year of full development) and fertilizer subsidy set at zero.
3/  Including amortization of equipment.
4/  After adding back cost of hired labor.
m
'f - Without Project
W. - With Project
Model I:    Compound of 12 people (6 labor equivalents) on light to medium soils in LRD and NBD; no expansion of
area possible and manual cultivation. Cropping with groundnuts (2 ha) and upland cereals (2.5 ha).
Model II:   Family of 7 (4 labor equivalents) on light soils in MID, LRD and NBD with access to swamps: area
expansion possible and donkey traction adopted. Cropping groundnuts increased from 1.25 to 1.80 ha,
upland cereals from 1.25 to 1.50 ha and swamp rice maintained at 0.25 ha.
Model III:  Compound lf 15 (8.5 labor equivalents) on good soils in MID, LRD and URD; area expansion possible and
oxen traction adopted. Cropping groundnuts increased from 3.0 to 3.8 ha, maize from 1.0 to 1.5 ha and
upland cereals reduced from 3.0 to 2.7 ha. Short duration rainfed rice maintained at 0.5 ha.
Groundnut yield without project increased to 1,200 kg/ha.



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Government Cash Plow
(D  '000)
Pv-l        Pv-7        Pv-R       P Pv-4        Pv-9         Pv-6         Pv-7          Pv-R         Pv-Q          Pv-10        Pv-11         P-1
Cash ITik8ow
IDA/FAD Credit                           14623.3      8840.1     10627.3      8634.9       7678.4
Italian Grant                            2205.0       2380.0      2555.0     1t55,.0       19SS.0
nnA rGrant                                2069.6      140.0        140.0       340.0        340.0
TA.es I/                                   1nq.n       56R.0      liRn.9      2469.6        2669.7      1149.8       3969.2        3437.1        3440.4       1185.3       39SR.6        3153.6
Wotal. Tnflnw                            19306 9     12123.1     14702.       13299.9     12543 1       3149.9        3q69.2       3432.1       310914        31399.       335R.6       '3A51.6
Cash iutflow
Production Tnout 3/                        690.2      1431.4      22R5.3      329A.4       3669.4
Extension and Traininv                   5264.1       3020.7      2826.1      2384.3        992.3
Coonerative Develonment                   2096.6      1698.3      2592.0      1112.0       1108.4
Apriculltural Research                    3639.5      1564.9      1813.7        919.3       R94.1
geed Mliltiulication tInit                 774.7       616.5      1193.3       377.9        296.2
Project Manitorinv and Rval-Ation
ulnit                                      722.1       579.0       203.4        355.R       246.2
Advance Financinv                         2345.0
Rectirrent CostA                            ---        ---         ----                    ------       1301.1        1301.1       1301.1       1301.1        1301.1       1301.1        1301.1
Debt Service IDA Credit 3/
IntereRt                                   179.5       199.5       204.1       219.R        232.7        242.2        246.7         246.7        246.7         246.7        244.3         241.8
Princinal Renavment                                                                                                                                                         329.0         329.0
Debt Service IFAD Loan 4/
Interest                                   43.6         73.0       160.9       143.6        175.0        175.0        175.0         175.0        175.0         175.0        173.2         171.5
Caoital                                     ----                                                                                                                            175.0         175.0
Total Outflow                            17794.5    10313.0      12321.3      10365.5      8407.4       1718.3        1718.3       1718.3       1718.3        1718:3       2225.6        2218.4
Net surolus (Deficit)                     1512.4      1810.1      2381.5      2934.0       1.AS 7       1131 9       7949.9        1713 9       1697 1        1667.0       113i     n    111%.7
1/ TnTeR  inei-.de tr9nefer of C-PMB surol,is from oroiect related activities and taxes on licensed traders.
2/ F.xc ldes both sutbRidies and farmers contribution.
3/ 3/4 of 12 ner ann,s service charee . 1/2 of 12 on ,,ndish-trsed tMA Credit and the orincinal navahle nver 50 vears with 10 years erace neriod. The renavment terms are 12 Der annum for
the first 10 vears and 32 ner annum for the next 30 vears.
4/ 12 mer annum service charie and the orincinal renavable over 50 vears with a 10 vear erace Deriod.  The renavment terms are 1 Der annum for the first 10 vears and 32 Der annum for
the next 30 veers.



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Dalasis '000 Real 1982 Terms)
Py-1        Py-2         Py-3         Py-4        Py-5         Py-6         Py-7         Py-8        Py-9        Py-10        Py-ll        Py-12       Pyl3-20
Development Costs
Extension and Training                  4,575.8      2,398.9     2,027.4      1,630.8       598.4         --          --           --           --          __           __           __         __
Cooperative Development                 1,824.7      1,352.6     1.857.5      . 722.1       654.9               --          --           --        __      __           __           _ 
Seed Multiplication Unit                1,773.4       889.7         778.3     1,101.7       476.7                     --                       --          --           _-           __
Project Coordinating Unit                 675.4        516.3        924.3       249.1       176.3                      -.
Project Monitoring &.Evaluation Unit    654.8          4-84,4      144.4        233.5       144.4                                 -- =-  -_
PPF                                     2,345.0        --           --          --           --           --           --          -~           --          --           --           --
Physical Contingencies                    503.3        258.3       284.6        144.2        65.6                                        --                 --          --
12,352.4     5,900.2      6,016.5      4,081.4    2,116.3                     --                  --          --          --                  -          --
Subtotal
Other Development Costs                 2,069.6        340.0        340.0       340.0       340.0                           --                       --           --                 --          --
Total Development Costs           14,422.0     6,240.2      6.356.5      4.421.4      2,456.3                          --          --                 --                        -           --
Recurrent Costs                              -           --           --           --           --         1,301.1      1,301.1     1,301.1      1,301.1    1.301.1       1,301.1      1,301.1
Incremental Farm Production Costs
Fertilizers and Chemicals                 162.3        547.4       986.8      1,762.9      2,696.6      3.347.6     3,678.4      3,678.4      3,678.4    3,678.4       3,678.4     3,678.4
Farm Equipment and Inputs                 446.1        896.4     1,549.4      2.294.5      2,815.9        925.1     1.021.3      1,021.3      1,021.3    1.021.3      1,021.3      1.021.3
Labor                                      62.7        199.4       410.9        853.1      1,353.4      1,776.8     1,554.3      1,554.3      1,554.3    1,554.3       1,554.3     1,554.3
Total Incremental Costs          15,093.1       7,883.4     9,303.6      9,331.9      9,322.2     7,350.6      7,555.1      7,555.1     7,555.1    7,555.1       7,555.1      7,555.1
Benefits
Groundnuts                                634.9      1,341.4     2,674.0      2,986.8      7,553.0     9,384.9    11,853.6    11,800.8    11,734.8   11,682.0    11,616.0    11,576.4
Maize                                      60.0        159.0       448.8        977.5      1,626.9      2,059.2     2,318.0      2,318.0      2,318.0    2,318.0    '2,318.0       2,318.0
Sorghum                                   --            52.3        54.4        167.4        284.0        289.5       296.5        296.5        296.5      296.5         296.5        296.5
Millet                                    --            52.3        108.8       223.2        340.8        289.5       355.8        355.8        355.8       355.8        355.8        355.8
Cotton                                    295.6        786.6     1,092.0      1,533.4      1,829.1     2,434.4      3,120.6      3.137.4      3,150.0    3,162.6      3.175.2      3,204.6
Rice                                      103.8        153.6       498.6        859.6      1,488.1     1,857.6      2,178.0      2,175.0      2,172.0    2,166.0      2,160.0      2,154.0
Total Incremental Benefits         1,094.3     2,585.2      4,876.6      6,747.9    13,121.9    16,315.1    20,122.5    20,083.5    20,027.1   19,980.9    19,921.5    19,905.3
Net Benefits                      13,998.8     5,298.2      4,427.0      2,584.0     3,799-7      8,964.5    12,567.4    12,529.4    12,472.0   12,425.8    12,366.4    12,350.2
Economic Rate of Return                    23.3%
IDX
as_



-53--
Annex 7
Table 2
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'C II
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
==asuinuawstss=asin:az szuuzuuuamss
UP 102      UP 20X.    UP 502    DOWN 10    DOWN 20X    DOWN 502  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
26.711      29.957      39.092      19.706      15.802       -0.504      17.765       14.338      11.995
23.312      26.409      35.029      16.540       12.693      -4.971      15.321      12.366       10.339
20.324      23.312      31.535      13.695        9.845     -10.670      13.113       10.573       8.830
12.963      15.802      23.312       6.310       2.071         NONE       7.451       5.954        4.941
30.662      34.108      43.915      23.312       19.289       3.591      20.519       16.538      13.835
35.373      39.092      49.794      27.536       23.312       7.698      23.683       19.035      15.911
58.776      64.255      80.795      47.693       42.001      23.312      37.691       29.639      24.538
-           -           -           -                  -            23.312       17.765      14.338
-           -           -           -            -           -*          -       23.312      17.765
_           _           -           -            -           --          -            -      23.312



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1     1984/85       1      1985/86     1     1986/87        I   1987/88             1988/89
.---- ----- ---  ---------
JULY -  JUNE           j  1  2    3    441   2   3    4!   1  2   3   4    1  2   3    4p   123                          4
A KEY STAFF              t                    t         .                             I i
Project Coordinator   t                    t                - t                    |                  |
Project Accountant   ItI |
Manpower Development  !                    I                  i                    i
Officerjj!I 
Cooperative Adviser   I                    I                  I                    I                  I
Extension and trai-   I                                                            I i  -             i
ning Specialist       t                    5                   _                   1 ____         _
Civil Work Administrator   ____I_I__
I                 I                                       I           
B CIVIL 1W1O^DVKSt!I!!
Houses          I  .                 j         -                             i
Stores          I.......                    0
C  STUDIES and REVIEWS
Mid-Term Review       |                    t                  I _ __
Monitoring and Evalua-J                    I                  t                    I
tion Unit             ,
I           _                          ,...
GPmB                  I t
Project Preparation   I                    ,                  I                    I                  t
... _ . _~II ..........ig_.I--  --|--
.... Design
Implementation                                                                                                      x
w0



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
National Fertilizer Imports
I PYI           PY?           PY3           PY4        _Y
Incremental Fertilizer Imports 1/                  _
(tons)T
Single Superphosphate                     600           700          890           950           980
Compound (26.14.0)                      110           130          180           280           350
Urea                                   60           60            70           120           150
Recurrent Fertilizer Imports 2/
(tons)5
Single Superphosphate                   6,000        6,600         7,200
Compound (26.14.0)                    5,200        6,280         7,500
Urea                                  400          480           580         _
Total National Fertilizer 3/           12,370.0     14,250.0      16,420.0       1,350.0       1,480.0
Imports (tons)
1/ Italian Aid will provide US $1.6 million for incremental fertilizer during the project periods, which will
cover imports of compounds, urea and part of simple superphosphate.
2/  Italian Aid will finance only the procurement of recurrent fertilizer imports of compounds and urea for a three-
year period up to an estimated cost of US $6.4 million.
3/ The quantities of recurrent fertilizers to be procured by Italian Aid may vary from projected quantities due to
changes in prices of fertilizers and foreign exchange fluctuations.
xc
'.












RRI-116 8  2
7'-T777-,T
I 6
"'U5ur,' v,
w
X
C                                         Z!                                                                                                                                                          4
EI                                                                                                                -EA
A f4 Afv r I
Z
CE
V                                 Jl
E                                    i  ,       ;
Y IE
I E                                                                                                        IJNTYP                               4,
'A'Ak   tA,AKLJNL)A             11, AFL'jl
-R                            -7  N  K
LA,,
EC
j
,ARA J,-qu:
'F N
7                                              *BA A,
f
1111,11,AP                 NLLL,                                                ,
Tib A,   0     w                                                                                         Er Er     W;                                                                    f
!        "k , - lIt  "E4
-E
-7
P.WW"M                                                                                             E     -E
E
T   EL 4   N                                                                a   .                                                            -;      f.  , i
E    a
-,Ur, j"J                                                                                                                                                                             4iL' '.N,                   V'21
77-' 77   37           '77' 7:                       r"                   v                                                        Q            'E        4.                                                                                   R                                    F
E
Z                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T t-i F    GAkw i4
n E;IE -
E                                                                                         r
gI %fl                        -   ' :r                                                         E    0  NO   : AQ-RICULTOZAL
p-                                                                                                                                         bVELQPMENT  Pk(Djl:(--T
A                                                                                                                        I    - I
n7
-1.           Q
EE-  C-O
Q-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A       C', 1A
7
r   9     FIAR i-3



