Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            LOAN NUMBER 2884-1 PAK
                                             (Amendment)
              (Cement Industry Modernization Project)
                               among
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               STATE CEMENT CORPORATION OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 8, 1991
                                            LOAN NUMBER 2884-1 PAK
                                             (Amendment)
                 AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT
                       AND PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1991, among ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the
Borrower), STATE CEMENT CORPORATION OF PAKISTAN (SCCP)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Bank have entered
into a Loan Agreement (Cement Industry Modernization
Project) dated December 23, 1987 (the Loan Agreement) for
the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (the
Project);
Page  2
      (B)   the Bank and SCCP have entered into a Project
Agreement (Cement Industry Modernization Project) dated
December 23, 1987 (the Project Agreement);
      (C)   the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide
addi- tional assistance towards the financing of the
Project by increasing the amount made available under the
Loan Agreement by an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-six million four hundred thousand
dollars ($56,400,000); and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to provide such additional
assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                 Amendments to the Loan Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is
amended by deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection
(e), substituting "; and" for "." at the end of
Subsection (f) and adding a new Subsection (g) as
follows:
            "(g) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement
      Amending Loan Agreement (Cement Industry
      Modernization Project) between the Borrower and the
      Bank and Project Agreement (Cement Industry
      Modernization Project) between the Bank and SCCP,
      both dated December 23, 1987."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Loan Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
      Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
      referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in
      various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty-
      two million four hundred thousand dollars
      ($152,400,000) in two tranches, the first tranche
      being an amount in various currencies equivalent to
      ninety-six million dollars ($96,000,000) (the First
      Tranche) and the second tranche being an amount in
      various currencies equivalent to fifty-six million
      four hundred thousand dollars ($56,400,000) (the
      Second Tranche)."
      Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement is
renumbered as paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 and the
following new paragraph (b) is added thereto:
      "(b)  Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, all amounts withdrawn from the Loan
Account or made subject to a special commitment pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall
initially be charged against the First Tranche until that
tranche has been exhausted, and shall thereafter be
charged against the Second Tranche."
      Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of
Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement reading as follows:
            "; provided, however, that commitment charges
      on the Second Tranche shall accrue from a date
      sixty days after the date of the Amending
      Agreement."
Page  3
      Section 1.05. In Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement,
the Closing Date is amended to read as "June 30, 1994".
      Section 1.06. Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay
      interest on the principal amount of the Loan
      withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a
      rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
      the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
      respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of
      one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
      specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
      principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
      during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
         (i)      'Interest Period' means a six-month
                  period ending on the date immediately
                  preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                  the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
     (ii)   'Cost of Qualified Borrowings' means the cost,
            as reasonably determined by the Bank and
            expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
            outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
            after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
            or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
            to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
            loans which may be made by the Bank after July
            1, 1989, bearing interest rates determined
            otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
            this Section.
          (iii)   'Semester' means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:
            "'(a)       The Borrower shall pay interest on
      the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
      outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
      Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
      determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
      plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
      of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
      Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
      on the principal amount outstanding during the
      preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
      applicable during such Interest Period.'
            (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of
      each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
      the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
      respect of such Quarter.
            (c)   (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month
      period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
Page  4
      October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 1.07. Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
            "(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
      the Loan to SCCP under a subsidiary loan agreement
      to be entered into between the Borrower and SCCP,
      under terms and conditions which shall have been
      approved by the Bank and which shall include (i) in
      respect of the First Tranche, an interest rate of
      14% per annum and a repayment period of 11 years
      including a grace period of 4 years and (ii) in
      respect of the Second Tranche, an interest rate of
      15% per annum and a repayment period of 10 years
      including a grace period of 3 years, and a
      provision in each case that the Borrower shall bear
      the foreign exchange risk."
      Section 1.08. In Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement,
a new paragraph (e) is added reading as follows:
      "(e) The Borrower shall have taken any action for
the divestment of its shareholding in any of the
Companies without the concurrence of the Bank."
      Section 1.09. Paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of the
Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
      "(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur."
      Section 1.10. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Amending Agreement. The percentages
of expenditures to be financed as set forth in Schedule
1 to this Amending Agreement shall be applicable in
respect of payments made for expenditures incurred on or
after the date of this Amending Agreement.
      Section 1.11. In Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
the last sentence is amended to read as "The Project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1993."
      Section 1.12. Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement is
amended as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Amending
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                Amendment to the Project Agreement
      Section 2.01. In Recital (A) of the Preamble to the
Project Agreement, the reference to the amount of the
Loan is amended to read as "one hundred fifty-two million
four hundred thousand dollars ($152,400,000)".
                            ARTICLE III
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 3.01. This Amending Agreement shall not
become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Bank
shall have been furnished to the Bank: (a) that the
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action; (b) that
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Sub-loan Agreements
have been amended in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) that effective July 1, 1991, the Borrower and SCCP
have authorized an increase of the equivalent of at least
$2 per ton in the price of cement produced by the
Page  5
Companies; and (d) that SCCP has made a capital
contribution of the equivalent of at least $8,000,000 to
ACC.
      Section 3.02. As part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Amending
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Bank an
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel
acceptable to the Bank showing: (a) that this Amending
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and
SCCP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SCCP in
accordance with its terms; (b) that the amended
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and SCCP and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and SCCP in accordance with its terms;
and (c) that the amended Sub-loan Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by SCCP and the Companies and
are legally binding upon SCCP and the Companies in
accordance with their terms.
      Section 3.03. This Amending Agreement shall come
into force and effect on the date upon which the Bank
dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of
the evidence required by Section 3.01 of this Amending
Agreement.
      Section 3.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not
have come into force and effect by a date ninety (90)
days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties
hereunder shall terminate, unless the Bank establishes a
later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions
of this Section, the Loan Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had
not been executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ A. Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                  STATE CEMENT CORPORATION OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ A. Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ M. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
Page  6
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment
    and materials
    (including
    supervision of
    erection and
    commissioning)
    (a)  Part A.1 of         109,135,000        100% of foreign
         the Project                            expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
    (b)  Other Parts          22,225,000        100% of foreign
         of the                                 expenditures
         Project
(2) Consultants'               5,900,000        100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures
    training
(3)      Unallocated          15,140,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               152,400,000
                             ===========
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment                            (expressed in dollars)*
                           First Tranche
On each April 1 and  October 1
    beginning April 1, 1993                     3,200,000
    through   October 1, 2007
                          Second Tranche
On each April 1 and October 1
    beginning April 1, 1993                     1,880,000
    through   October 1, 2007
Page  7
__________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar
    equivalents determined as of the respective dates of
    withdrawals. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
    and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
    The following percentages are specified as the
premiums payable on repayment in advance of maturity of
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant
to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                        The interest rate (ex-
                                        pressed as a percentage
                                        per annum) applicable to
                                        the balance outstanding
                                        on the Loan on the day of
                                        prepayment multiplied by:
                           First Tranche
Not more than three years                       0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
    not more than eleven years
    before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.80
    more than sixteen years
    before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                 0.90
    more than eighteen years
    before maturity
More than eighteen years before                 1.00
    maturity
0   Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                        The interest rate (ex-
                                        pressed as a percentage
                                        per annum) applicable to
                                        the balance outstanding
                                        on the Loan on the day of
                                        prepayment multiplied by:
                          Second Tranche
Not more than three years                       0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
Page  8
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
    not more than eleven years
    before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.88
    more than fifteen years
    before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  1.00
    maturity
