Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2884 PAK
              (Cement Industry Modernization Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 23, 1987
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2884 PAK
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 23,  1987, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF  PAKISTAN  acting   by   its   President   (the  Borrower)  and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     (B)  the Project will  be  carried  out  by  the State Cement
Corporation of Pakistan (SCCP) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such  assistance,  the  Borrower will make available to
SCCP the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SCCP;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and SCCP of even date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  SCCP pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Companies"  mean  the   Associated   (ACC),  Zeal  Pak,
Javedan, Maple  Leaf,  Gharibwal  and  Mustehkam  cement companies
collectively, and "Company"  means  any  of those cement companies
singly;
     (e)  "Sub-loan Agreements"  mean  collectively the agreements
to be entered  into  between  SCCP  and  the Companies pursuant to
Section 2.01 (c)(i) of the  Project  Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to
the Sub-loan Agreements; and
     (f)  "FY" or "fiscal  year"  means  the Borrower's, SCCP's or
the Companies' fiscal  year,  as  the  case  may  be, covering the
period July 1 through June 30.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to ninety-
six million dollars ($96,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause  SCCP,  for the purposes of the
Project, to open and maintain in  dollars a special account in the
National Bank of Pakistan on  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)    "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
      (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.08.  The  Chairman   of   SCCP  is  designated  as
representative of the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause SCCP to perform  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the  obligations  of SCCP therein set forth,
shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary  or  appropriate   to   enable   SCCP  to  perform  such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend  the  proceeds  of the Loan to
SCCP under a subsidiary loan  agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SCCP, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank and which shall include an interest rate
of 14% per annum, a repayment period of 11 years including a grace
period of 4 years and a provision that the Borrower shall bear the
foreign exchange risk.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
Page  4
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land  acquisition,  respectively) shall be carried
out by  SCCP pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section  3.04.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions of
paragraph (a) of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement, the Borrower
shall associate itself, as  necessary,  with  the formulation of a
corporate strategy for SCCP  under  Part  B.2  of the Project, and
shall  take  or  cause  to   be  taken  all  action  necessary  or
appropriate to enable SCCP to implement such strategy.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
       (ii)    ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
      (iii)    enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
      (iii)    furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
Page  5
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all  times maintain a
policy environment satisfactory to  the  Bank and conducive to the
growth of  an  efficient  and  internationally  competitive cement
industry. To this end, the  Borrower  shall continue to review and
modify, as  necessary,  the  relevant  policies,  insofar as these
pertain to  the  cement  sub-sector,  and  shall  give  the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment in connection therewith.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  SCCP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it  improbable  that  SCCP will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Memorandum and Articles of Association of SCCP shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely  the ability of SCCP to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SCCP or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
shall have approved the PC-1 document with respect to the Project;
     (b)  the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  shall have been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and SCCP;
     (c)  the Sub-loan  Agreements  shall  have  been  executed on
behalf of SCCP and the Companies; and
     (d)  the Consultants' contract for  purposes of Parts B.1 and
B.2 of the Project shall have been signed.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by SCCP, and is  legally  binding upon SCCP in accordance
with its terms;
Page  6
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and  SCCP and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and  SCCP  in accordance with its terms;
and
     (c)  that the Sub-loan  Agreements  have been duly authorized
or ratified by SCCP and the Companies and are legally binding upon
SCCP and the Companies in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.08 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to  the  Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary, or  Section  Officer  in  that  Division, of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECONOMIC                          ECDIV-05-634
               Islamabad
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145  (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                    By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
                    By /s/ W. P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Equipment
     and materials
     (including
     supervision of
     erection and
     commissioning)
     (a)  Part A.1 of           61,500,000     100% of foreign
          the Project                          expenditures and
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost)
     (b)  Other Parts           19,100,000     100% of foreign
          of the                               expenditures
          Project
(2)  Consultants'                5,900,000     100% of foreign
     services and                              expenditures
     training
(3)  Unallocated                 9,500,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 96,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  8
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to support the rational
development of the cement subsector  in Pakistan and, to this end,
to assist SCCP in meeting  its  needs  in (a) developing a compre-
hensive  and  coherent  corporate  strategy,  (b)  modernizing and
rationalizing its  production  facilities,  and  (c) improving its
technical and managerial performance.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Modernization of SCCP Cement Plants
1.   Carrying out of  modernization  works  at  the ACC Wah cement
plant,  including  (a)   installation   of  a  modern  dry-process
production  line  to  replace   existing  wet-process  kilns,  (b)
replacement of the power input  system,  and installation of a 500
kVA diesel generator, and (c)  upgrading of existing process areas
and infrastructure, including the access road.
2.   Carrying  out  of  balancing,  modernization  and replacement
works  at  the  Zeal  Pak,  Javedan,  Maple  Leaf,  Gharibwal  and
Mustehkam cement  plants,  including  (a)  replacement of critical
parts to prevent major production  losses, (b) installation of new
facilities to increase production efficiency, and (c) provision of
new equipment to improve environmental standards.
Part B:   Institutional Development of SCCP
1.   Establishment  of  a  Management  Information  System  (MIS),
including the provision and installation of computer facilities.
2.   Formulation of a  comprehensive corporate strategy, including
for SCCP's cement companies.
3.   Upgrading of the technical  training  facilities and staff at
the Dera Ghazi Khan and Zeal Pak cement plants.
Part C:   Establishment of a Cement Research Institute
     Establishment  of  a  Cement  Research  Institute  (CRI) with
facilities for research on cementitious materials.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
     Provision of consultants' services to assist in: (i) carrying
out the Project; and  (ii)  carrying out action programs resulting
from the MIS established under Part B.1 of the Project.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning April 1, 1993
     through   October 1, 2007                   3,200,000
Page  9
_______________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $6,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  10
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or  requests  by SCCP for a
deposit or deposits which add  up  to  the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of SCCP, withdraw
from the Loan  Account  and  deposit  in  the Special Account such
amount or amounts as SCCP shall have requested.
     (b)  SCCP   shall   furnish   to   the   Bank   requests  for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by SCCP  out of the Special Account for
which SCCP requests replenishment  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, SCCP shall furnish to  the Bank, prior to or at the
time of such request,  such  documents  and  other evidence as the
Bank shall reasonably request, showing  that such payment was made
for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
        (i)    the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be  made  by  SCCP directly from
               the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions
               of  Article  V   of   the  General  Conditions  and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, SCCP shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank,  deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request,  refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount  of  such  payment  or  the  portion  thereof not so
eligible or justified. No  further  deposit  by  the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until  SCCP has made such deposit or
refund.
Page  11
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  SCCP shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  to  the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
