Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2884 PAK
              (Cement Industry Modernization Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               STATE CEMENT CORPORATION OF PAKISTAN
                      Dated December 23, 1987
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  December  23,  1987,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and STATE
CEMENT CORPORATION OF PAKISTAN (SCCP).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Islamic Republic  of  Pakistan  (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  ninety-six million
dollars ($96,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that  SCCP agree to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement; and
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and SCCP,  the  proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to SCCP on the
terms and conditions set forth  in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  2
and
     WHEREAS SCCP, in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  SCCP  declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out, and shall cause the
Companies to  carry  out,  the  Project  with  due  diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial,  engineering  and   industrial   practices,  and  shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as  the  Bank and SCCP shall otherwise
agree, SCCP shall  carry  out,  and  shall  cause the Companies to
carry out,  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as  the  Bank and SCCP shall otherwise
agree, SCCP shall:
          (i)  on-lend a portion of  the  proceeds  of the Loan to
               the  Companies  under  sub-loan  agreements  to  be
               entered into between SCCP  and the Companies, under
               terms and conditions which shall have been approved
               by the Bank and which  shall include the same terms
               and conditions as  those  SCCP  shall have obtained
               from the Borrower; and
         (ii)  arrange for other funds required for the Project to
               be provided  partly  through  equity  infusions and
               partly through loans  obtained from local financial
               institutions.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  SCCP  shall  carry  out,  and  shall cause the
Companies to carry  out,  the  obligations  set  forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,  9.08  and  9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to  insurance,  use  of  goods  and  services, plans and
schedules, records and reports,  maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a) SCCP shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SCCP shall not take or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  3
     (b)  SCCP shall cause the Companies to duly perform all their
obligations under  the  Sub-loan  Agreements.  Except  as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, SCCP shall  cause the Companies not to take
or concur in any action  which  would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or  waiving  the  Sub-loan Agreements or any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) SCCP  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank  with  regard  to the progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  the performance by the
Companies of their obligations  under the Sub-loan Agreements, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  SCCP shall promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of  the  purposes of the Loan, the
performance by SCCP of  its  obligations  under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  or  the performance by the
Companies of their obligations under the Sub-loan Agreements.
     Section  2.06.  SCCP   shall,   prior   to  implementing  the
Management Information System under  Part  B.1  of the Project and
finalizing the Corporate Strategy  under  Part B.2 of the Project,
review such system and strategy with the Borrower and the Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations
                     of SCCP and the Companies
     Section 3.01. SCCP shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs, and  shall  cause  the  Companies  to  carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs, all in accordance with sound
administrative,  financial  and  engineering  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. SCCP shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant,  machinery,  equipment  and  other  property, and shall
cause the Companies at  all  times  to  operate and maintain their
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make and cause the Companies to make all
necessary repairs and  renewals  thereof,  all  in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and industrial practices.
     Section 3.03. SCCP shall,  and  shall cause the Companies to,
take out and  maintain  with  responsible  insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to  the  Bank  for,  insurance against such
risks and in such amounts  as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section  4.01.  (a)  SCCP  shall  maintain  and  cause  to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices  its and the Companies' operations
and financial condition.
     (b)  SCCP shall:
          (i)  have its and  the  Companies' records, accounts and
               financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and  expenses  and  related  statements) for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
Page  4
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its and the
               Companies' financial statements for such year as so
               audited and (B) the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors of such scope  and  in  such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  furnish and cause to be  furnished to the Bank such
               other information concerning said records, accounts
               and  financial  statements  as  well  as  the audit
               thereof,  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time
               reasonably request; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case  not  later  than  ninety  (90) days after
               December 31 in each  year,  certified copies of its
               and    the    Companies'    semi-annual   financial
               statements.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SCCP shall not incur, and shall  cause the Companies not to incur,
any  debt  unless  a  reasonable  forecast  of  the  revenues  and
expenditures of SCCP and  the  Companies  shows that the estimated
net revenues of SCCP and the Companies for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to  be  incurred  shall be at least 1.5 times
the estimated debt service requirements  of SCCP and the Companies
in such year on all debt  of  SCCP and the Companies including the
debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means  any indebtedness of SCCP and
               the Companies maturing by  its  terms more than one
               year after  the  date  on  which  it  is originally
               incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including       administration,       adequate
                    maintenance, taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                    taxes,    but    excluding    provision    for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A) revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
                   related to operations; and
               (B) expenses, including taxes  and payments in lieu
                   of  taxes,  incurred   in   the  generation  of
                   revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
Page  5
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by SCCP and the Companies not earlier than
               fifteen months prior to  the incurrence of the debt
               in question, which both  the  Bank and SCCP and the
               Companies find reasonable,  provided  that no event
               has occurred since the preparation of such forecast
               which has, or  may  reasonably  be  expected in the
               future to have,  a  material  adverse effect on the
               financial condition or  future operating results of
               SCCP and the Companies.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SCCP shall not incur, and shall  cause the Companies not to incur,
any debt, if after the incurrence  of  such debt the ratio of debt
to equity shall be greater than 67 to 33.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means  any indebtedness of SCCP and
               the Companies maturing by  its  terms more than one
               year after  the  date  on  which  it  is originally
               incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "equity"  means  the  sum  of  the total
               unimpaired paid-up  capital,  retained earnings and
               reserves of SCCP and of the Companies not allocated
               to cover specific liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SCCP shall maintain, and shall  cause the Companies to maintain, a
ratio of current assets  to  current  liabilities of not less than
1.3.
     (b)  Before November 30 in  each  of their fiscal years, SCCP
and the Companies shall,  on  the  basis  of forecasts prepared by
SCCP and  the  Companies  and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, review
whether they would meet  the  requirements  set forth in paragraph
(a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the  Bank  the  results  of  such review upon its
completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  SCCP and the Companies
would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Page  6
SCCP's and the  Companies'  fiscal  years  covered by such review,
SCCP shall promptly take,  and  shall cause the Companies promptly
to take, all necessary  measures  in  order  to meet such require-
ments.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)   The term  "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
              which could in  the  ordinary  course of business be
              converted into cash  within twelve months, including
              accounts receivable,  marketable  securities, inven-
              tories and pre-paid  expenses properly chargeable to
              operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
       (ii)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
              which will become  due  and  payable  or could under
              circumstances then  existing  be  called for payment
              within twelve  months,  including  accounts payable,
              customer advances, debt  service requirements, taxes
              and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
      (iii)   The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the
              aggregate amount  of  repayments  (including sinking
              fund payments, if  any)  of,  and interest and other
              charges on, debt.
       (iv)   Whenever for the purposes  of  this Section it shall
              be necessary to value,  in  terms of the currency of
              the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
              valuation  shall  be  made   on  the  basis  of  the
              prevailing lawful  rate  of  exchange  at which such
              other currency is,  at  the  time of such valuation,
              obtainable for the purposes  of servicing such debt,
              or, in the absence of  such  rate, on the basis of a
              rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.05.  SCCP  shall,  in  accordance  with  a schedule
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  take  steps  to  develop  the Cement
Research Institute established under Part C of the Project into an
autonomous organization, managed and  controlled jointly by public
and private cement  sector  interests  and  funded,  to the extent
possible, from fees and service-related income.
     Section 4.06. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, SCCP
shall not make, and shall  not  permit  the Companies to make, any
major new investments  unless  and  until  investment and strategy
criteria and  guidelines  have  been  established  as  part of the
Corporate Strategy to be formulated under Part B.2 of the Project.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of SCCP thereunder shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify SCCP thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
Page  7
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For SCCP:
          State Cement Corporation of Pakistan
          PEC Building
          Liberty Market
          Gulberg III
          Lahore, Pakistan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               CEMENT                          44636 SCCP PK
               Lahore, Pakistan
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SCCP, or  by SCCP on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Chairman
or such other person or persons  as he shall designate in writing,
and he  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  sufficient  evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ W. P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    STATE CEMENT CORPORATION OF PAKISTAN
Page  8
                    By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   With respect  to  complex  bid  packages  (including erection
supervision and commissioning) included in Part A of the Project:
     (a)  bidders shall be prequalified  as described in paragraph
2.10 of the Guidelines; and
     (b)  bids shall  be  invited  under  a  two-step procedure as
described in paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Items or groups of items  required  for  Parts A.2 and B.3 of
the  Project,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  the
equivalent of $3,600,000, may  be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding  procedures  on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited  from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers for Part A.2 of the Project and at least
two qualified suppliers for Part B.3 of the Project eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance  with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and  II  of  the  Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $1,500,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
Page  9
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  SCCP  in  carrying  out the Project, SCCP
shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank.  Such  consultants  shall  be  selected  in  accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Implementation Arrangements
1.   SCCP shall have overall  responsibility  for carrying out and
coordinating the Project.
2.   Specifically, Part A.1 of the Project shall be carried out by
a project implementation team which  SCCP  has set up and which it
shall retain with composition  and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank. Experienced  consulting engineers appointed under the
Project shall assist  the  project  implementation team in process
selection,  plant  layout  and  design,  tender  preparation,  bid
evaluation, and other matters  relating  to project management and
implementation.
3.   In implementing Part A.1  of  the  Project, SCCP shall act as
its own general contractor. SCCP  shall, however, contract out for
design  and  implementation  of  civil  works  and  mechanical and
electrical works, and for supply of equipment. The suppliers shall
be responsible  for  supervision  of  erection, commissioning, and
performance of the equipment.
4.   Part A.2 of  the  Project  shall  be  carried  out by project
implementation teams to be set up  by the concerned Companies on a
timely  basis  and  with   composition   and  terms  of  reference
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such project implementation teams shall
be under the general  supervision of SCCP's project implementation
team referred  to  in  paragraph  2  above,  which  shall  also be
specifically responsible for  procuring  the  equipment needed for
carrying out Part A.2 of the Project.
5.   The other parts of  the  Project  shall  be carried out under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
Reporting Requirements
6.   Within 45 days of the end of each quarter, SCCP shall prepare
and furnish  to  the  Bank  a  progress  report  for the preceding
quarter covering, inter  alia,  physical  progress of each project
component,  updated  project  costs,  status  of  procurement  and
disbursements, and the work of the consultants.
Environmental Standards
Page  10
7.   SCCP shall ensure  that,  in  carrying  out  the Project, the
Companies will comply with environmental standards satisfactory to
the Bank.
