Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10421-SE   Type:  (SAR)
PEAN, L.  / X33092 / J9 123/ AF5IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit        =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0               =  CFAF 278.7
CFAF 1 million       =  US$3588
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
AGETIP       Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public contre le Sous-Emploi
AMS          Association des Maires du Senegal
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DIRE         Delegation a l'Insertion, a la Reinsertion et a l'Emploi
FED          Fonds Europeen de D6veloppement
GIE          Groupement d'Interet Economique
GOS          Government of Senegal
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ILO          International Labor Organization
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
PCR          Project Completion Report
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SDA          Social Dimensions of Adjustment
UNCDP        United Nations Capital Development Program
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Leslie Pan
(Economist, Mission Leader), Peter Watson (Division Chief), and Pape Alioune Ndao (Financial
Analyst, Consultant) who visited Senegal in January/February 1992. Messrs. Emmanuel James and
Patrick Canel are the Peer Reviewers for the operation. Mmes. JoAnne Nickerson and Amy
Gallagher supported the preparation of the report. Ms. Katherine Marshall and Mr. Peter Watson
are the Department Director and managing Division Chief, respectively, for the operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Economic and Social Context ..................................... 1
Urbanization Trends ....                                                         2
Construction and Public Works Sector ................................ 3
Rationale fol IDA Involvement in the Sector ........................... 4
II. PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT - FIRST PROJECT
Project Objectives .   ............................................ 5
Institutional Form  .............       ............................... 5
Organization and Staffing ....................................... 6
Program Targets and Capacity .......................                ,            6
Project Identification and Appraisal ...................... 7
Subproject Implementation  ......................  7
Contracting and Supervision .......................                              7
Monitoring and Evaluation  ....B... ....,                                        8
Achievements ...................... 8
Lessons Learned ...................... 9
Donor Coordination ......................  9
MII. THE PROJECT
Project Formulation ......................  10
Project Objectives ......................                                       10
Intended Beneficiaries ......................  11
Project Description ......................  11
Construction and Public Works Program ..........................                12
Development of Pilot Activities  ...........          ...............  14
Training and Studies ..........................  15
Status of Project Preparation........... ............,,,.,.17
Project'Cost and Financing Plan ....................  17
Project Implementation........... t                              .......... 20
Procurement ....................................    21
Disbursements .........................   23
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ............................... 24
Supervision Plan ..............................,......... 25
Envirommental Impact .......................  26
Economic Analysis and Benefits .......................  26
Risks ........................,,...... 27
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. ItS content.s rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Tables in the Main Tet
Table 3.1 - Local and Forei  Inflation Rates
Table 3.2 - Project Cost Summary
Table 3.3 - Financing Plan
Table 3.4 - Procurement
Table 3.5 - Disbursements
Table 3.6 - Key Indicators
ANNEXES
1.    AGETIP's Statutes and By-Laws
2.    Framework Agreement between AGETIP and GOS ("Convention")
3.    Procedures Manual of AGETIP
4.    Disbursement Profile Comparison (AGETIP vs. Standards)
5.    Entreprises attributaires de marchds IDA
6.    Summary of Technical Assistance Training
7.    Action Plan for Mutual Guarantee Company
S.    Terms of Reference for (A) Training Services for Beneficiaries and
(B) the Grassroots Participation Program
9.    Project Costs and Implementation Schedule
10.   Procurement Profile of AGETIP contracts
11.   Consulting Services Required in Man/months
12.   Supervision Plan
Note: Annexes 1, 2 and 3 are given for illustrative purposes cnly and will be revised as a condition
of Project effectiveness.



- iii -
EULC OF SENL
SECOND PULC MOMK AND EMPLOYMENT PROECT
STAF-F APRAISAL REP,
Credit and Project Summary
Borrow,e:          Republic of Senegal
Boeneficiaries:    Ministry of the Economy and Finance
Municipalities
Executing Agency:   Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Jntdr8t Public contre le Sous-Emploi
Credi Amount:      US$39.0 million
-rerm,s:           Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:       Other donors (US$15 million), Government of Senegal (US$7 million),
Municipalities of Senegal (US$20 million)
Dbjectives and
,DesonWtiQzl:       Based on its accrued experience during the first phase, project objectives,
in addition to public works execution and employment enhancement, include:
(a) the continuation and decentralization of AGETIP activities in secondary
cities; (O) the development of pilot activities to test the feasibility of
AGETIP's approach in other areas; (c) the organization of training for the
municipalities and the small- and micro-enterprises engaged in project
lmplementation; and (d) to make AGETIP a sustainable agency covering its
operating costs on a fee basis.
The credit will mainly finance the investment operations of AGETIP for
three years. The project will consist of three components involving the
creation of short-term employment and laying the groundwork for long-term
development of Senegal's municipal employment infrastructure. The first
component of the proposed project would continue with the execution of
public works, such as the rehabilitation and maintenance of public facilities
in urban areas to be carried out under labor-intensive schemes by local
contractors. The second component will deal with three pilot activities: (a)
applying AGETIP procedures to the development and management of
municipal revenue-earning infrastucture; (b) improving the efficiency of
procuring goods for public purposes; and (c) developing and testing
AGETIP-type mechanisms to support rural investments.  The third
component is comprised of: (a) a package of training services related to



- iv -
work organization, management, and technical skills training, to be offered
on a voluntary basis to local contractors who will be awarded contracts under
the first component; (b) a training program for local engineering firms and
beneficiaries on the preparation of feasibility studies and technical project
proposals; (c) a monitoring and consulting component in order to monihor
closely the progress of the project, to prepare the transition toward lociJly
supported employment of the target group, to monitor unemployment levels
In areas and sectors covered by the project, and to verify that assets created
or rehabilitated are being maintained by the beneficiaries; (d) a study and
selected audit of the Public Investment Program to analyse existing
procurement regulations and practices and to uncover bottlenecks impeding
project implementation and design system improvements; (e) a package of
technical assistance to assess the feasibility of establishing a mutual guarantee
company for the small contractors; and (i) a program aimed at increasing
grassroot participation in urban infrastructure maintenance.
and Risk:           The main benefits are that the project will create low-cost, short-term
employment opporunities using private sectr enterprises in the execution of
social and economic public works and will generate income for many
categories of the work force. It will also help Government in the area of
project management and will demonstrate the efficienc- r-f private sector
management in public works execution.  The main   's concern the
continuation of the Agency after the project. IDA wi'l not continue its
support of the Agency under Government auspices, i.e., through credit to the
Government to be passed on to AGETIP ir. grant form. Specific measures
for cost recovery such as the intreAtuction of a service fee by the Agency for
execution works are designed to maximize this possibility. The intr -duction
of cost-sharing by the municipalities is intended to create the conditions for
AGETIP to operate independently of IMA and other donor financing after the
project ends. Another risk is the fear that the Government may try to
influence the Agency resulting in the latter's ioss of independence and
operational efficiency. These risks will be minimized by the establishment
of internal control mechanisms and appropriate supervisory procedures by
independent engineering and consulting firms.  The risk of political
interference will be reduced by strict adherence to Convention the Manual of
Procedures.



Estimated Projct Costs:
(USS Million)
COMFONEN1S              LOCAL        FOREIGN        TOTAL         % FOREIGN
1. PUBLIC WORKS                     42.a         13 S            S63        24
2. PILOT ACT1VIMES                   3.2          1.4             4.S       30
3. TRAWNG, SrUDIES                   2.1          1.S             3.S       41
-Services to contractora             1.1          0.4             1.S       27
-T.A. for beneficiaries              0.1          0.2             0.3       80
-Monitoring                          0.4          0.2             0.S       30
-Contract mansgenmen  udy            0.0          0.5             0.S       100
-Mutual guarantee company            0.1          0.2             0.3       80
-Greasroots participation            0.S          0.0             0.S        0
PPF Refinancing                      0.S          0.0             0.S       100
TOTAL BASE COSIS                    48.S         16.3            64.8       26
Price Condingencic                   0.9          0.3             1.2       26
Parallel-Financed Works             15.0          0.0            15.0        0
TOTAL POJECT COSTS                  64.4         16.6            81.0       21
Figures may not add up to do rounding.
ciming Plan:
(US$ Million)
LOCAL        FOREIGN         TOTAL             5 OF TOTAL
_    PROJBCr COST
Govonment                             7              -              7                  8.0
IDA                                   18            21              39                 48.0
Municipalitie.                        20             -              20                 2S.0
Other dono0s                          15             -              15                 19.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    60            21              81



- vi -
J!stlpated Dibreents:
(US$ Million)
FY93       FY94       FY95      FY96
_______                                            39.
Total             12         12        12         3
11Cumulative       12    1 24           36        39



REPU-BLIC OF SIUGAL
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECr
Stff Aaisal I==or
SECTION I - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Economic and Social Context
1.1          Senegal has made some progress in adjusting its ecoimy in the past two years. In
particular, there has been an effort to carry out a program of economic stabilization to control inflationary
pressures, and to strengthen the country's external sector position. In 1989/1990, real GDP grew by 3.6
percent, below the targeted rate of 4.6 percent, but higher than the 3.1 percent rate achieved during
19985/786-;^88/1989. The rate of inflation, as measured by the GDP deflator, was kept below the
program tp&get of two percent. On the fiscal front, the balance turned from a deficit of 4.3 percent of
GDP in 1989-1990 to a surl-us of 0.2 percent at the end of 1990/1991. External payment arrears have
been eliminated and domestic arrears were reduced significantly. However, the Government has not been
successful in making reforms on the expenditure side and especially on the wage bill. Measures to rectify
this slippage have been t3ken including voluntary departures, significant downsizing of embassies abroad
and limiting hiring to 1,600 persons in 1991/1992.
1.2          These attempts at structural adjustment have put additional pressures on the employment
situation especially in urban areas. Privatization of public enterprises and layoffs in the public sector
have contributed to a rise in unemployment and to a noticeable increese In informal sector activities.
Senegal exemplifies a situation where the rate of job creation has not kept pace with rapid population
growth. Generally and depending on the sources and methodologies utilized, unemployment has been
estimated between 12.3 percent and 30 percent of the labor force. Frecise measurement is rendered
difficult due to the large portion of the labor force working in the informal sector. According to the latest
labor market information based on an employment survey of April-May 1991 in the Dakar area, the
unemployment rate is estimated to have jumped from 16.7 percent in 1976 and 23.4 percent in 1988 to
reach the current 24.4 percent. This figure is based on an active population of 586,000 persons, out of
which 443,000 are working and 143,000 are unemployed. The Dakar area has a total population of
1,568,000 persons, out of which 1.1 million are considered able to work, including persons up to age
24. This latter group represents 47 percent of that total or 517,000 persons.
1.3          Uremployment is particularly affecting youth, unemployed graduates, migrants and the
unskilled. Of the unemployed, 60 percent are less than 30 years old. The 24.4 percent unemployment
figure represents 'absolute unemployment", i.e., those who do not have a job and are actively looking
for one. If one takes into consideration the number of unemployed who have given up looking for a job
(essendally women), the rate of unemployment would be 32 percent of the active population. In addition,
it has been estimated that underemployment which concerns those who regularly work less than the
average 40 hours per week affects 15.4 percent of the active population. The unemployment figure goes
up to 35 percent for males and 44 percent for females in the 20-24 working age group. Half of the
unemployed have no professional experience since they have never worked in their lives. Eighty percent
of the unemployed have been looking for a job for a year or more. Women are more affected by the loss
of a job than men, especiaUy those between the ages of 20 and 34. Half of the unemployed claim that



-2-
their unemployment is caused by lay-offs of salaried personnel due to cutbacks, contract termination or
firm closings.
1.4         In order to improve these difficult social and economic conditions, the Government of
Senegal (GOS) has launched a number of economic and political initiatives since the early 1990s. These
initiatives involve the implementation of economic reforms and the creation of employment programs.
Essentially, GOS is withdrawing from many sectors and welcoming private initiatives. In particular, the
Government has taken a different path on two key issues affecting agriculture and industry and has
adopted in these two areas a "nouvelle politique agrico6 ' (NPA) and a "nouvelle politique industrielle"
(NPI). These new policies constitute significant departures from the theories that have promoted subsidies
and state involvement through the socieets d'encadrement in the rural sector. At the same time, in the
industrial area, the Government has promulgated a new investment code, frozen the minimum wage
(SMIG)1 and reduced administrative obstacles and procedures for private enterprise creation.
1.5         As a means to help generate employment, GOS created an institution called the DIRE
(Delegation I l'Insertion, a la Reinsertion et I l'Emploi) in 1987 to try to deal especially with the
unemployment problems of young graduates and laid-off personnel from the civil service, public
enterprises and the private sector. The DIRE is in charge of the management of the National
Employment Fund and of a Special Fund, financed by GOS for US$11.4 million and international donors
like AfDB, IDA and receiving technical assistance from UNDP and ILO. Essentially the project has
promoted the creation of new enterprises by making credit available and lending through commercial
banks to targeted unemployed people with lankable proposals. The complexity of the institutional set-up,
the lack of independence necessary to operate, the reluctance of the banking sector to make small credits
and to monitor small loan portfolios, and the absence of auditing of the entities involved in fund flows
have led to major bottlenecks which have had a negative impact on credit effectiveness and efficiency.
The DIRE has had mixed results. As of July 1991, DIRE had financed 496 projects mostly in urban
areas ranging from US$10,000 to US$50,000. These projects havf created approximately 1,500 jobs at
a cost of US$11,000 per job. More than half of the jobs created or 52 percent have been in the tertiary
sector, 39 percent in the primary sector and the rest (8 percent) in the secondary sector. Thirty-two
percent of the projects funded have failed and the reimbursement rate is about 10 percent.
Urbanization mnd
1.6         Like other developing countries, Senegal is undergoing rapid urbanization and, despite
a population that still is for the most part rural, the primary sector now accounts for less than 30 percent
of GDP. A high natural growth rate and an extremely mobile population are significant features of
Senegal's urbanization process. In 1985, the urban population represented more than one third of the
total population (6.5 million). In 1991, the urban population grew to 3 million inhabitants (45 percent
of the total population) and is expected to reach 9 million by the year 2015 (56 percent of the total
population). Due to the country's institutional and economic heritage, over 53 percent of the urban
population is concentrated in the Dakar area and accounts for more than 80 percent of the jobs in the
modern sector. Dakar has had an average annual population growth rate of 5.6 percent since 1976. With
22 percent of Senegal's entire population, Dakar has grown from a city of an estimated 1.1 million in
1980 to a city of 1.7 million according to the last census in 1988. Several other communes have also had
1 The minimum wage is CFAF 1600 for an eight-hour day.



-3 -
high annual growth rates in the 1980s, ranging from 4.5 percent for Kolda, Fatick and Ziguinchor to six
percent for Pikine and Mbour. Although Dakar is expanding rapidly and lacks infrastructure, a few
secondary cities are now growing faster. This leads to a more balanced population distribution through
a densification of the urban network.
1.7          The urban sector can be characterized in three ways:
(a)   first and foremost, the growing scarcity of public resources during the last decade has
resulted in a steady decline in per capita urban investment. Confronted with an increased
inter-sectoral competition, the urban investment level reached only 54 percent of its
previous level under the Sixth Plan, thus accumulating a chrom.. *ofrastructure deficit.
Given its key role in the national economy and the limited de-  ," Ant potential of the
regional poles over the medium term, GOS has largely conct. &r&aed its efforts on the
rehabilitation of Dakar;
(b)   secondly, the main government bodies responsible for urban development and housing
encountered the same difficulties as the public sector as a whole. Poor performance
could be partially explained by the fact that advantageous financing conditions were no
longer available and this led to an unrealistic infrastructure policy given affordable
demand; and
(c)   lastly, the reform of the Municipal Code, transferring the bulk of the responsibility for
maintaining infrastructure and services to local communities, was not accompanied by
significantly increased resources or authority.
1.8          Acting against these urbanization and unemployment trends, the current Government's
strategy emphasizes the promotion of a decentralization scheme. As a result, GOS is eager to withdraw,
at least partially, from direct support tr urban services, urban infrastructure development and provision
of shelter. These functions are now being taken over, to the extent possible, by local governments and
the private sector. Implementation of these reforms was supported by IDA through the Technical
Assistance, Urban Management and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1458/SF113-SE), the ongoing Municipal
Housing and Development Project (Cr. 1884-SE) and various related initiatives of the donor community.
Within the overall objectives of laying the foundation for sustained growth through development of
private initiatives, the Government strategy for the urban sector aims at improving the support that
efficient cities can give to the creation of economic activities and employment generation opportunities.
Constructon and Public Works Sect
1.9          During the 1980s, the construction and public works industry was affected by a severe
recession which impacted particularly on employment in that sector. From 1982 to 1988, employment
declined by more than half in the industry. The number of persons working declined from 6,651
employees in 1982 to 3,139 in 1988. As a result, the share of the construction and public works
employment in total employment went from 11.1 percent in 1982 to 5.3 percent in 1988. The backlog
of inadequate maintenance of road infrastructure has been increasing and often the necessary periodic
maintenance works are deferrsd until rehabilitation costs approach those of new construction. The
problems plaguing the public works sector stem mainly from the weak organization and the fiscal
problems of the Government. On the organizational side, funds from the recurrent budget and from the



-4-
investment budget ujed to finance road maintenance programs are not always made available. The
cumbersome system of public expenditures involves a number of steps from "engagement", "liquidation",
"ordonnancement" and "paiement effectif" that might take up to 18 months, hence the reluctance of
suppliers to sell goods and services to Government.
1.10         Most public works are carried out by force account by maintenance brigades with very
low productivity. For example, it Is estimated that the average annual output of force acc;ount brigades
during the 1983-1987 period for both periodic and routine maintenance of the network of paved roads
(heavy periodic maintenance) would translate into a capacity to resurface the network once every 45
years. Routine maintenance output rates on paved roads were much worse. For the network of earth
roads and  se    e, output corresponds to a partial regravelling every eight years and fiul
regravelling every 100 years. A major factor contributing to this situation is the weak procurement
capacity and especially the erratic nature of contract settlements hampering the utilization of private
contractors to execute the works. In any given year, a substantial portion of work done by private
contractors is carried as arrears by the treasury. Those arrears have fluctuated from CFAF 2 billion in
1987 to CFAF 0.3 billion in 1990 and to CFAF 1.1 billion in May 1991. Payments for arrears are
estimated to be as high as 40 percent in any given year. As a result of this situation, not only are
contractors reluctant to bid on GOS jobs, but when they do, they include routinely in their bid prices the
cost of carrying such slow-paying receivables. The need for a more expeditious payment system to
reduce costs has led GOS to accept the establishment of a mechanism permitting the timely payment of
contractors. An account has been established in a commercial bank and is administered by the Ministry
of Equipment, Transport and the Sea, and controlled a posterlori by the Ministry of the Economy and
Finance. This account would, within limits of the annual budgets, at all times have available CFAF 120
(lower limit) to CFAF 350 million (upper limit), amounts estimated necessaiy to meet payment deadlines.
Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Sector
1.11         By financing the first Public Works and Employment Project (Cr. 2075-SE), IDA has
already played a leading role in the rehabilitation of infrastructure in Dakar and in the main centers of
the ten regions of Senegal. IDA's strategy is to support the Government in the urban sector to promote
its decentralization policy. A fourth urban project (FY94) is under preparation to help the Government
test the effectiveness of its decentralization policy, especially in terms of improving the quality of
infrastructure maintenance and urban services. The fourth urban project proposes a multi-faceted
approach to reaching the goals of creation of economic activities and tue generation of employment
opportunities in urban areas. This approach includes the following priorities: (a) improved functioning
of urban centers and the development of a more balanced urban network in support of urban-rural
linkages; Ob) improved urban services delivery through the implementation of self-reliant mechanisms for
provision and financing of these services; (c) development of appropriate procedures to finance priority
urban investments identified in the Municipal Investment Plan; and (d) implementation of an appropriate
framework to support the dynamism of the private sector. These actions are closely linked with, and
complementary to, the proposed second public works and employment project. Therefore, a second
program of labor-intensive public works aimed at improving the urban environment using private
enterprises sets the stage to address some of the policy concerns, such as contracting efficiency and
private sector participation, that will be dealt with in the fourth urban project. Continued IDA
involvement as requested by GOS would help address urban infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation
problems while creating employment and training workers in the informal sectot.



SECTION IX - PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT - FItST PROJECT
2.1          In an attempt to further mitigate the effects of the adjustment program on the economy
as a whole and on youth and the urban poor in particular, GOS is supporting macro-economic growth
policies with speciiic employment generation programs that are cost-effective. As overall growth cannot
take piace without the necessary infrastructures in terms of roads, schools, dispensaries, etc., the
construction industry seeraed the logical starting point for intervention; therefore, with IDA support, GOS
decided to undertake a public works and employment project in 1989.
Prjec Objectiv
2.2          The first Public Works and Employment Project (Cr. 2075-SE) was approved on
December 14, 1989 and became effective on March 7, 1990. Its objectives are:
(a)   to create, at least temporarily, substantial new employment in urban areas as rapidly as
possible;
(3)   to improve, through the execution of the works financed by the project, the individual
skills of the workers who will be employed, and the corporate competitiveness of the
firms that will carry out works so as to develop their capacity to respond to increased
opportunities for sustained employment after project completion;
(c)   to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and test the procedures that will
enable the public sector to commission such projects; and
(d)   to undertake subprojects that are economically and socially useful.
2.3          Associated objectives, which v-re also being met, include:
(a)    avoiding the need to increase the civil service;
(b)    combining the benefits of implementation methodologies that feature low cost, high
visibility and conspicuous impact;
(c)   supporting but not replacing other development programs by efficiently executing their
subprojects related to infrastructure;
(d)    using transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures for subproject proposals,
appraisal, contracting and disbursements; and
(e)    providing sustainable technical and managerial assistance.
jnstitutionalEFrm
2.4          After considering the barriers that small contractors would be facing in terms of access
to public contracts, it was deemed necessary to establish a special agency with private legal status to



-6 -
implement the project. To this end, an organization called the "Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Inter8t
Public contre le Sous-Emploi" (AGETIP) was created in 1989 as an independent institution, with a board
consisting of a Director drawn from the private sector and representatives from the National Council of
Employers of Senegal, the Union of Construction and Public Works workers, and the Association of
Mayors of Senegal (Annex 1). AGETIP was given the necessary private legal status and entered into a
Convntion with GOS to execute the project (Annex 2).
Orzanization andSafflg
2.5          AGETIP is headed by a widely respected Senegalese executive who has over fifteen years
of experience in the private sector. He is assisted by technical and financial directors and by an internal
auditor also with a strong private sector background. The director has the authority to recruit AGETIP's
professional and clerical staff that numbers 20 persons. Administrative costs have been kept below five
percent of the total program amount. Project management is governed by a Procedures Manual which
is an integral part of the Conventon.
Program Targets and Capaciy
2.6          In trying to address the issue of unemployment affecting youdh, migrants and unskilled
laborers, AGETIP targets, in particular, the small and medium firms of the domestic construction
industry. These firms ai9 negatively impacted by the cumbersome bidding pro_;dures and payment
delays occurring in the public sector. AGETIP's effectiveness can be seen in the fact that it has led to
the creation of 11,103 jobs with an average duration of 30 days each. Seventy-eight enterprises won
contracts to execute 119 subprojects, among which are 15 youI groups called "Groupements d'Interet
Economique" (GIE). It is worth noting the large number of GlEs that have been formed since the
creation of AGETIP, an element that indicates that the target group of young and unskilled has been
reached. Of the 681 enterprises pre-qualified by AGETIP, 103 are GEEs, of which 99 were created after
1989.
2.7          During the preparation of the first project, a survey of the target enterprises was
undertaken. In particular, the survey aimed at describing the enterprises themselves, including:
(a)    overall financial position (fixed capital, working capital, guarantees, suppliers);
(b)    managerial aspects (qualifications of management, willingness to attend training
programs, ability to fulfill contractual obligations in terms of duration and quality, overall
orientations of the enterprise in connection with public works through AGETIP); and
(c)   employment by category (indefinite contract, fixed-term contract, daily laborers),
subscription to social security.
2.8          AGETIP used the results of the survey in order to classify the enterprises and pre-qualify
them to participate in the execution of the subprojects. The target enterprises have demonstrated an
ability to abide by bidding procedures and attend training programs. About 600 firms of the domestic
construction industry have been prequalified to participate in the AGETIP program. Of these 600 firms,
78 have won 119 contracts, and of these 78 firms, 96 percent or 75 firms are small- or medium-sized.



-7-
AGETIP has also prequalified 191 consulting engineers of which 97 have had at least one contract with
the Agency.
Project Identification and Apraisal
2.9          AGETIP advertises widely its procedures as contained in the Procedures Manual (Annex
3), especially as they pertain to the categories of works and services eligible to oe financed under the
Project. AGETIP reviews the subprojects that are presented by the municipalities and ministries of the
central Government for their eligibility based on certain pre-determined criteria known and published in
the Procedures Manual. The portfolio of projects identified is then submitted to IDA for review and after
analysis, the portfolio to be executed for the coming year is retained and approved. It is then that
consulting firms are hired to prepare bidding and technical documents to call for bids.
Sbject Impmenn
2.10         Once a subproject has been selected, the public agency which has submitted it ("the
beneficiary") enters into an agreement (Conventon de matrtse d'ouvrage deleguee) with the Executing
Agency, according to a pre-established model which is attached to Sectiop IV of the Agency's Procedures
Manual. This agreement includes inter ali the following provisions:
(a)   the Executing Agency is substituted for the beneficiary for the entire execution of the
subproject and has full authority, on behalf of the beneficiary, to select the contractors,
sign the contracts, supervise the works, acknowledge delivery, and pay contractors;
(b)   the subproject is financed by the Execuuig Agency, on the basis of the funds made
available to it under the project, and therefore is additional to the beneficiary's own
capital budget or investment program. The beneficiary will not be requcsted to reimburse
the cost of the subproject;
(c)   the beneficiary pledges the responsibility for the ongoing maintenance of the subproject;
in case of non-compliance with this clause, the beneficiary will not have access to the
Agency's financial resources, until the situation is rectified; and
(d)    provisions for resolving disputes.
Contracting-and Suprision
2.11         With the support of a management information system containing files for contractors,
consulting firms and subprojects, all of which have been screened and reviewed by IDA prior to credit
effectiveness, AGETIP is able to proceed swifldy with contracting without the long delays observed in
the public procurement system. The roster of eligible contractors and consulting firms maintained by the
Agency is always open, and newcomers, once they satisfy the requirements specified in the Procedures
Manual, can be pre-qualified and classified. At the end of the year, the roster is re-examined and firms
are reclassified based on performance. Beside the guidelines delineated in the Procedures Manual,
AGEIIP implements the subproject with the support of a management information system which allows
for decision-mRking to be made without delay. At any time, the managers of the Agency know exactly



-8 -
what the situation is for every project, supplier, payment, voucher, and bill. Problems can be identified
and corrected immediately.
Monitoring and Evaluatioi
2.12         In order to better understand the target groups of beneficiaries (individuals, firms,
municipalities, etc.), AGETIP has commissioned a number of studies to monitor the issues of labor ratio,
wages, cost overruns, completion delays, unit prices, etc. The mid-term evaluation, based on a sample
of 40 construction enterprises, has revealed that the labor ratio in the volume of works fluctuates between
20 and 22 percent for road works, to 25 and 30 percent for building rehabilitations, and to over 30
percent for street sand removal and the cleaning of gutters and drainage ditches. Daily wages paid also
fluctuate between 1400-1900 CFAF for service workers, to 1950-2600 CFAF f'.or building rehabilitation
and to 2800-3 100 CFAF for road works demanding the utilization of machinery. AGETIP has been able
to execute its first portfolio of an amount of 2.3 billion CFAF with a small cost overrun of 27.5 million
CFAF, representing 1.2 percent of the portfolio. This must be compared with the public procurement
system where cost overruns amount to 15 percent of original estimates. On a sample of 64 work sites,
only five, or less than 10 percent, registered completion delays for causes having to do with raw material
and supply shortages. On unit prices, the analysis indicates that AGETIP has obtained prices that are five
to 40 percent lower than those obtained by the administration. Finally, AGETIP has verified through
its technical audits that the assets created or rehabilitated have indeed been maintained by the
beneficiaries.
2.13         To further explore the impact of the first Public Works and Project on unemployment in
urban areas, a follow-up program of quantitative surveys among Project beneficiaries will be launched
at the end the first project. The objective of this survey will be to improve empirical information on
employment characteristics and quality of life in the construction and public works industry, especially
in urban areas. The second phase project's monitoring component will also include a study to monitor
unemployment levels in areas and sectors it covers.
Achievements
2.14         Among its achievements, AGETIP has contributed to the renovation of 27,900 square
meters of public buildings, to the construction of 4400 square meters of simple buildings including
schools and dispensaries, to the rehabilitation of 50 kilometers of urban roads and 38,000 square meters
of sidewalks, the demolition of 15,000 square meters of old buildings, the cleaning of 37,200 linear
meters of drainage canals and the clearing of 122,000 square meters of bushes, the collection of 7700
cubic meters of sand and to the filling of 18,000 cubic meters of embankment. It has set up easy and
clear bidding procedures which facilitated a large participation of the small- and medium-scale enterprises
in the program. Small- and medium-scale enterprises have executed these works within the time
framework specified in the contracts signed with AGETIP. (Several training programs have been
conducted by AGETTP so that these firms would have a good understanding of the Agency's procedures.)
2.15         On many counts AGETIP has been a success. A review of project disbursement profiles
indicates that AGETIP has shown an absorptive capacity greater than the average IDA-financed project
(Annex 4). Other governments in the region have decided to promote this form of private management
of public contracts. The organizational design has been adopted in Niger, Burkina Faso, Benin, Mali,
and Mauritania. The traditional role where government produce public services is being replaced by one



-9-
where the government prides those services but lets the private sector deliver them. AGETIP has
demonstrated how managerial autonomy and private sector orientation lead to strong results. A case in
point is the bidding and procurement procedures: it takes AGETIP two months to complete the whole
process, while it takes the administration six months to do the same.
Lessons Learned
2.16   Preliminary reflections on the design of the first Public Works and Employment Project suggested
improvements in the following areas:
(a)   In the appraisal of subprojects area, it was suggested that for social projects, numerical
indicators such as population, number of current and potential users of sor:al
infrastructures, tax collection efficiency, etc., be used to rank subprojects;
(b)   In procurenent, on the evaluation of the contractor's bids, it was suggested that a post-
qualification bid be introduced to take into account the remaining capacity of the
contractors in contract award as well as provide explanations for bids that are 15 percent
lower than the reference price and to have an additional guarantee. These changes will
be reflected in AGETIP's updated Procedures Manual;
(c)    Regarding the disbursement of counterpart funding, experience has shown that
Government has been slow in disbursing its counterpart funding. To address this issue
a strong covenant linking the review of subproject batches to the disbursement of such
funding has been included in the Development Credit Agreement (SAR, para 4.3 (e));
(d)    The training for contractors component should have been designed earlier to enable
participating contractors to have immediate access to training. For the second phase
project, training for contractors will be available upon credit effectiveness;
(e)    A program to increase grassroots participation should have been promoted. This
program has been included under the training and studies component of the second phase
project (para 3.24); and
(t)    The eIvironmental impact of subprojects was not taken into account in the eligibility
criteria for subproject appraisal and selection. To address this point, another eligibility
criterion has been introduced into AGETIP's updated Procedures Manual stating that
subprojects having a negative impact on the environment will not be considered for
implementation.
Donor Coordination
2.17         AGETIP has evolved as an institution and has received funding from eight other donors
including AfDB, Japan, Germany, Canada, World Food Program (WFP), the FED and UNDP. AGETIP
has also developed programs for the promotion of micro, small and medium enterprises funded by the
Caisse Centrale of France and United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and Belgium.



- 10-
SECTION m - THE PROJECT
E^,rjWc ,F.Qfllation
3.1           The success of the AGET1P initiative as a tool to increase the local absorptive capacity
and to involve small contractors in project execution led GOS to request IDA's assistance for a second
project in a letter dated March 19, 1991.
3.2          AGETIP's contribution to urban renewal and employment has not gone unnoticed by local
officials. Senegal has been experimenting with decentralization over the past two years. Municipal
elections took place in 48 localities in November 1990, and the newly elected mayors who gathered
within the Associat'on des Malres du Sdingal (AMS) have been active in trying to develop programs for
their communes. The response of the leaders of these local govermnents to the difficult situation in their
cities has been to request the assistance of AGETIP to help them plan and structure interventions to
rehabilitate and improve living conditions. With the support of AGE' 1P, the mayors are looking forward
to investment strategies and action plans for their municipalities to include:
(a)    basic urban infrastructure (paved roads and primary and secondary canals for storm
drainage and sanitation, primary schools, dispensaries and neighborhood clinics, sports
fields, community centers, youth centers, etc.);
(b)   slum upgrading and neighborhood restructuring (roads, drainage canals for wastewater,
potable water, street lights, garbage collection, land development, etc.); and
(c)    basic economic infrastructure and community facilities (covered markets, bus stations,
slaughterhouses, public parking, warehouses, cold storage, etc.).
3.3          Using the concept of matrlse d'ouvrage delWguie (delegated contract management), the
municipalities want to promote the construction or restoration of basic infrastructure as a central element
of urban regeneration and of the government decentralization program. Such capital investments would
have primary multiplier effects associated with the construction or restoration phase, while having a
substantial impact on the local economy. Furthermore, te refurbishing of obsolete infrastructure would
have secondary multiplier effects on employment and income associated with the on-going use of the
restored or newly built facility.
rolect QbWectives
3.4          Based on its accrued experience during the first phase, project objectives, in addition to
public works execution and employment enhancement, include:
(a)   the continuation and decentralization of AGETIP activities in secondary cities;
(b)   the development of pilot activities to test the feasibility of AGETIP's approach in other
areas;



- 11 -
(c)   the organization of training for the municipalities and the small and micro enterprises
engaged in project implementation; and
(d)   to make AGETIP a sustainable agency covering its operating costs on a fee basis.
Intended Beneficiaries
3.5           The project's intended beneficiaries are divided into f.wE groups. First, there is the
population at large benefitting from better drainage, sanitation, and roads. In particular, this will benefit
the poorest neighborhoods, since project selection criteria give priority to poorest areas. Second, there
are the small enterprises and t4cherons (class A - see Annex 5) from the informal sector who mostly are
in the lowest part of the income distribution and the youth groups known as Groupement d'Interet
Economique (GIE) that come from the lowest 25 percent of the urban population. The project will be
helpful to the former categories to the extent that it will provide them with work and contribute to making
them achieve a transition from the informal to the formal sector. A third group of beneficiaries is
constituted by the 41 municipalities that will benefit from investment from the project. Finally, the
project benefits a fourth group, the maltres d'oeuvre (architects, engineers, and consulting firms) that
will be engaged in the preparation of bidding documents and supervision of the works.
Proiect Description
3.6   The three components of the proposed project are:
(a)   the continuation and expansion of AGETIP's public works program of public facility and
infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance in urban areas to be carried out under labor-
intensive schemes by local contractors;
(b)    a program of three pilot activities which include:
fi)     the application of AGET[P procedures to the development and
management of municipal revenue-earning infrastructure;
(ii)     a program to improve the efficiency of procurement of goods (i.e.,
school furniture) for public purposes, financed from the reorientation of
existing government purchases (from current budget or from projects);
and
(iii)    the development and testing of AGETIP-type mechanisms to support
rural investments; and
(c)    a training and studies component which would support:
(i)     a package of training services related to work organization, management,
and technical skills training, to be offered on a voluntary basis to local
contractors who will be awarded contracts under component (a);



- 12 -
(ii)     a training program for local engineering firms and beneficiaries on the
preparation of feasibility studies and technical project proposals;
(iii)     a monitoring and consulting component in order to monitor closely the
progress of the project, to prepare the transition toward locally supported
employment of the target group, to monitor unemployment levels in
areas and sectors covered by the project, and to verify that assets created
or rehabilitated are being maintained by the beneficiaries;
(iv)      a study and selective audit of the Publi,. Investment Program to analyze
existing procurement legislation and pritctices and to uncover bottlenecks
impeding project implementation and design system improvements;
(v)      a package of technical assistance to assess the feasibility of establishing
a mutual guarantee company for the small contractors; and
(vi)      a program  aimed at increasing grassroot participation in urban
infrastructure maintenance.
3.7           The implementing arrangements which are critical for effective fulfillment of the project's
objectives will remain the same, i.e., la matrise d'ouvrage d4ldgge. AGETIP will continue with its
current procedures and be able to avoid the cumbersome, slow, and inefficient procedures that public
institutions follow for calling for bids, awarding contracts and disbursing, which result in de facto
discrimination against small contractors. AGETIP's operating procedures and internal organization, as
well as those of its subsidiaries will include: (a) eligibility criteria for selecting subprojects submitted
by local and central administrations for implementation under the proposed project; (b) procedures for
calling for bids, selecting contractors and vendors (including prequalification if necessary), and awarding
contracts; (c) internal organization for work supervision and control; (d) disbursement procedures; and
(e) delivery of completed works. Accounts will be audited at least twice a year and resources will be
replenished only upon presentation of properly documented records of the use of funds and satisfactory
audits. The supervision committee of AGETIP will have full authority to propose and implement any
measure that would be deemed usefil to ensure actual fulfillment of the project's objectives, including
hiring and dismissal of AGETIP's management and staff.
3.8           AGETIP's current Procedures Manual will be revised to take into account the changes
in terms of focus and scale. AGETIP, a not-for-profit organization, will be involved in revenue-
generating activities. The Procedures Manual Will be revised to provide that its profits may be used to
finance only additional public works projects and other related activities. The updating of the Procedures
Manual, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 4.2(a)). At all times, the Statutes
of Agreement of the Agency and the Procedures Manual must be acceptable to IDA (para. 4.3(a)).
Construction and Public Works Program
3.9           Ibis program will continue with the rehabilitation and maintenance of public infrastructure
in urban areas, especially in the field of construction and public works, i.e., drainage network cleaning,
public building rehabilitation, road maintenance, and urban renewal. These activities will be carried out
under labor-intensive schemes by local contractors in order to create employment. This project



- 13 -
component will represt at approximately 90 percent oif AGETIP's activities in terms of total project costs.
AGETIP will decew'rOlize its activities and set up two regional offices in Saint Louis in the north and
Ziguinchor in the south. Also there will be a deconcentration of decision-making, i.e., the heads of
regional offices will be responsible for dafly management of their offices. All subprojects to be financed
under the credit will be reviewed and approved by IDA.
3.10         Municipal Contribution to Project Financing. One of the major objectives of the proposed
project is to involve municipalities in the financing process. AGETIP will share with each municipality
the funding of each subm;tted subproject. Municipalities benefitting from subprojects executed under the
project will finance 50 percent of the cost of these subprojects. However, since not all municipalities -
especially smaller and newer municipalities - requesting AGETIP's assistance in implementing public
works will be able to finance 50 percent of the works, four exception criteria were established:
(a)    communities having a population of less than 15,000 inhabitants;
(b)   communities with an equity investment of less than 100 CFAF (US$0.37) per person per
year;
(c)   communities with a debt per capita of 4000 CFAF (US$14.35); and
(d)   communities having local tax revenues of less than 12 million CFAF (US$43,057) per
year.
Communities meeting all four of the above criteria will be eligible to receive up to 90 percent of
financing for the subprojects executed on their behalf. The Direction of Local Communities will furnish
AGETIP with lists of the communities eligible for the 90 percent financing plan and those eligible for the
50 percent financing plan annually. This proposal was presented by GOS and discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations (para. 4.1(b)).
3.11         Incentive Fund. In order to encourage municipalities with strong management skills, it
was decided to introduce an "incentive fund" (fonds d'incitation). Those municipalities having reserves
in their recurrent budgets at the end of the fiscal year wiUl be able to transfer these reserves to their
investment budgets. IDA wiUl then match the equivalent of every dollar the municipality saved with the
equivalent of two dollars for subproject financing. This fund wiUl receive a global endowment of US$6
million which should be spread out as follows over the life of the project:
(a)    US$1 million the first year;
(b)    US$2 million the second year; and
(c)    US$3 million the third year.
The Direction of Local Communities will be responsible for providing AGETIP with a list of
communities eligible for the incentive fund at the beginning of each year.
3.12         In addition, the construction and public works program will execute construction
components of other current or planned projects financed by IDA and other donors. These construction



- 14 -
components will be executed on a fee basis. The Procedures Manual states that fees cannot exceed five
percent of the value of works. An example of this is the Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 2108-SE)
which is negotiating with AGETIP the construction of 13 regional agricultural inspection stations and five
regional livestock inspection stations over a four-year period. Similar collaboration is envisaged in the
Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 2107-SE), and in the Primary Education Development Project
(Cr. 1735-SE) and the proposed human resources sector project planned for FY93 for school and clinic
construction.
Development of Pilot Activities
3.13         The pilot activities consist of a set of three programs designed to test the applicability of
AGETIP's principles to other areas. The philosophy of transferability will be measured for income
generating municipal infrastructure programs, public procurement programs in general and rural
activities. This component represents seven percent of the project's total base cost. These pilot
operations will be evaluated during the annual reviews.
3.14         Revenue-generating Infrastructure Program.  This program will aim essentially at
identifying income-generating projects for the municipalities. These projects could include markets,
slaughterhouses, bus stations, cold storage houses, and public parking. AGETIP would enter into an
agreement with the municipalities, prepare the feasibility studies, structure the financing for the use of
funds from the CredIt Communal (provided for in part under the Municipal Housing Project (Cr. 1884-
SE)), build the project, operate it, and finally transfer it to the municipality after proper management has
been trained. The municipalities would pay a fee to AGETIP for these operations. AGETIP would
introduce an entrepreneurial element in municipal management, i.e., bringing community improvements
with profits for the municipality.
3.15         Public Procurement Program.  This program will aim at -supporting GOS in its
privatization policy. AGETIP would develop a program of pilot projects designed to test the applicability
of AGETIP's principles and procedures to procure goods and services for the public sector whether they
are financed by donors, notably IDA, or by Government budget. A sample of targeted goods and
services could be: a) school desks, chairs and supplies; b) equipment for hospitals and clinics; and c)
sanitation equipment for municipalities (garbage containers, wheel barrows, brooms, etc.). This program
would extend the AGETIP principle to non-construction contracts to be executed by small ardsans.
3.16         Rural Investment Program. This program will aim to extend AGETIP-type operations
to the support of rural investment. The two principal targets would be socially productive infrastructure
at the level of the local community, through communauts rurales and on-farm investment. The
justification for this is that existing mechanisms are rather ineffective at this level, and leads to an
exacerbation of the continuing urban bias of other official policies. The commwuads rurales are the
lowest level of elected local government, and Government policy is to increase their role and powers, but
they currently lack political credibility because of their lack of resources Communautds rurales should
not, however, be encouraged to engage in directly productive investments, which occur principally on-
farm. Nor does the existing credit system significantly address the issue of long-term investment on small
farns. It is proposed that AGETIP develop pilot operations to address these problems, present detailed
proposals for Government and IDA's approval, put them into effect by the creation of decentralized
organizations, and provide training and monitoring services. In the event that agreement cannot be



- 15-
reached on an implementable proposal, the funds allocated for this purpose would be transferred to the
public works program.
Trainin and Studies
3.17         Package of Traiing Services for Contractors. This component, represenfing four percent
of AGETIP's activities in terms of total base project costs, will aim at increasing the technical and
managerial capacity of small- and medium-scale Senegalese firms in the building and construction trades.
The rationale behind this component is twofold:
(a)    most firms in the target group are expected to show weaknesses, in terms of
management, work organization, and technical skills, which might jeopardize the
successfil implementation of the subprojects that they will be commissioned to carry out.
The provision of some technical assistance to contractors is deemed an effective way of
addressing this risk; and
(b)   conversely, those firms which are going to be awarded contracts under the proposed
projects may be expected to be comparatively more efficient than others, if the selection
process is effective. Therefore, with a view to strengthening comparative advantages
instead of randomly spreading assistance over the whole industry, these firms deserve to
be supported to improve the overall efficiency and competitiveness of the industry.
3.18         AGETIP conducted a survey to determine the training needs and the willingness of the
contractors to participate in the financing of these needs. The results reveal that 96 percent of the
entrepreneurs interviewed indicated training needs for themselves and their employees as well as the
specific fields (site management, technical training, accounting and finances) in which that training was
needed. Also 74 percent have expressed the wiUl to invest their own funds in training. A majority of
the contractors are willing to pay 20,000 CFAF per month and per person, with the possibility of a five
percent increment per month until the 36th month. Several subprograms will be offered under this
component, some of whi^h would be:
(a)    a business administration and financial management program intended for entrepreneurs
and their administrative staff; and
(b)    a work organization program primarily designed for foremen and various technical
training courses to improve the skiUs of basic workers.
These subprograms would be very practical at the grassroot level and will take the form of on-the-job
assistance and training. Potential beneficiaries will be free to accept or refuse this form of assistance,
except in cases where technical assistance will be deemed indispensable for successful implementation of
the subproject and will, therefore, be a condition of contract award.
3.19         The establishment of an effective technical and management assistance operation to the
small and medium firms involved in project execution will be delegated to an outside entity that will be
contracted for this purpose. Annex 6 presents the summary of training services that will be offered under
the two programs. Terms of reference have been drafted to solicit proposals from a list of local



- 16-
consultants already Identified to formulate an Action Plan that will be presented to IDA for its approval
no later than three months after credit effectiveness. These terms of reference were agreed upon during
negotiations (para. 4.1(d)). The agreed Action Plan will be updated annually to reflect the needs
Identified during site supervision of project execution.
3.20         Technical Assistance to Beneficiaries. This component would provide support to
beneficiaries to prepare feasibility studies and technical project proposals that would be submitted to
AGETIP for funding (Annex 8). The submission for IDA's approval of a detailed Action Plan for the
implementation of this component is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 4.2(c)).
3.21         Monitoring Program. The monitoring program will broaden the scope of the regular
supervision of any IDA project. Given the wide margin of independence and initiative which is deemed
instrumental to ensuring AGETIP's efficiency and effectiveness, close and continuous ex post and
monitoring are essential to prevent AGETIP from misusing its autonomous decision power. Moreover,
the many innovative and even experimental features of the proposed project call for provisions enabling
the Government and donors to jointly monitor progress of the project toward the proposed objectives and
to take expeditious measures if they assess that some misconception has prevailed in the project design,
and that there is a danger of the objectives being missed. In order to make relevant information available
for the above-mentioned meetings, consultant services (e.g., technical, management and financial audits
of AGETIP, studies of the impact and performance of already implemented subprojects, a study
monitoring unemployment levels in areas and sectors covered by AGETIP, and a study of the
performance of procurement procedures) will be identified and agreed upon with the Government by
regular supervision missions and will be commissioned by AGETIP upon request by the Government in
order to deliver findings and recommendations in a timely manner for the above meetings.
3.22         Contract Management Audit Study. This component will consist of a study and selected
audit of the Public Investment Program to analyze existing procurement regulations and practices, to
uncover the bottlenecks in procurement, contracting, works supervision, payment, and audits that impede
project implementation and to design system improvements. The study will help the Government
document problem areas and will at the same time demonstrate the benefits of alternative procedures and
contract administration methods that emphasize efficiency and transparency used by the Public Works
Employment Project. The terms of reference for the audit were agreed on during negotiations (para.
4. 1(c)). It was agreed during negotiations that:
(a)    within six months of the completion of the study and not later than October 1993, the
Government will present to IDA for its comments an Action Plan to adopt the changes
recommended by the study to determine how they will be implemented (para. 4. 1(c)); and
(b)   the Government will subsequently implement the agreed Action Plan, not later than April
30, 1994 (para. 4.1(c)).
3.23         Action Plan for the Establishment of a Mutual Guarantee Company. Eighty percent of
the micro- and small-enterprises and Groupements d'Interet Economique (GIE) constituting the main
target group of AGETIP are young firms that do not have access to bank credit to finance their equipment
and working capital. This component would provide financial assistance to conduct the feasibility study
to respond to the needs expressed by local entrepreneurs for the establishment of a mutual guarantee
company. It will give support in terms of logistics, training and preparation of the techniques and



- 17-
procedures for the organization of a mutual guarantee company that would serve the firms likely to
execute works under the project. The timetable of key steps for launching studies and activities necessary
to implement this component is in Annex 7.
3.24          rassroot Participation Progrm. This component would help organize a program to
increase grassroots participation in urban infrastructure project maintenance (Annex 8). This program
would disseminate information, using the local languages, logos, appropriate colors and music, to the
c.'efs de quarter, neighborhood committees and to the t4cherons and micro-entrepreneurs to increase the
level of responsibility that the community feels with respect to project works. In this framework,
AGETIP has been organizing a number of activities to increase public awareness and support for the
project. The credit will provide financing for the continuation of these activities, including an
informaion seminar to distribute documentation and to sensitize the population on the project, a meeting
of the General Assembly of the Agency, and a week-long campaign in the media. The objective of this
effort is to improve communication between the grassroots and local authorities so that the former are
consulted on projects that affect their neighborhood, before the projects are presented to the Agency for
funding and implementation. This is particularly important in the case of garbage collection and sewer
cleaning, where grassroots participation can make a difference in terms of public hygiene. The
submission for IDA's approval of a detailed plan of action for this program is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 4.2(c)).
Status of Project Preparation
3.25         A PPF in the amount of US$480,000 was granted to GOS on December 6, 1991 to
finance short-term consultant services in various fields (training, participation and involvement of the
population, mutual guarantee fund, updating the Procedures Manual, municipal revenue-earning
infrastructure, public procurement) needed for the project preparation. All studies are underway and
preliminary drafts were reviewed at appraisal. AGETIP personnel and representatives of the Government
have met regularly with the consultants to monitor progress on these studies. The project was appraised
in the latter half of January 1992 and negotiated in April 1992.
Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
3.26         The project base cost is estimated at US$64.8 million equivalent (CFAF 18.4 billion) out
of a total project cost of US$81 million (CFAF 22.6 billion) net of taxes and duties. Based on data from
the first Public Works and Employment Project, the foreign exchange component of the program is
estimated at 24 percent of the total cost. Base cost estimates are in January 1992 prices. Annual inflation
rates have been estimated as follows:



- 18-
Table 3.1 - Local and Foreign Inflation Rates
r -1993                                          1994                 1995                 1996
Local                 3.0                  3.0                  3.0                  3.0
Foreign                3.9          _       3.9                  3.8                  3.8
Since the volume of labor-intensive public works will be adjusted according to available funds, price
contingencies have not been applied to the estimated local cost of the public works component which
constitutes 66 percent of total base costs. Price contingencies on the remaining components amount to
two percent of base costs. A summary of estimated costs is presented in Table 3.2 below. Detailed
project costs are provided in Annex 9.
Tble 3.2 Estimated Costs (net of taxes and duties)
(US$M)
COMPONENTS             LOCAL       FOREIGN       TOAL         % POREIGN
i. PUBUCWORKS                     42.8        13.5           56.3      24
2. PIL    ACTrIrS                  3.2         1.4            4.5       30
3. TRAING, STUDIBS                 2.1         1.5            3.5       41
-services tocontractors            1.1         0.4            1.5       27
-T.A. for beneficiaries            0.1         0.2            0.3       s0
-Monitoring                        0.4         0.2            0.5       30
-Contract managment study          0.0         0.5            0.5      100
-Mutal guante company              0.1         0.2            0.3       80
-Grassroots padicipation           0.5         0.0            0.5       0
PPF Refinancing                    0.5         0.0            0.5      100
TOTAL BASE COSTS                  48.5        16.3           64.8       26
Price Contingencies                0.9         0.3            1.2       26
Paralel-Financed Work             IS.0         0.0           1S.0       0
TOTAL FROJECT COSTS               64.4        16.6           81.0       21
Fipure. may not add up to do rounding.



- 19 -
3.27        The proposed IDA credit of US$39 million equivalent (CFAF 10.7 billion) will finance
48 percent of project costs net of duties and taxes over a three-year period. This amount includes a five
percent fee to be paid to AGETIP for its delegated contract management work. The Government's
financial contribution will be US$7 miUlion equivalent (CFAF 1.95 billion) or eight percent of total
project costs. The Government's contribution of CFAF 650 million per year represents a small portion
of Govermnent's actual expenditures of CFAF 75 billion for 1990 and of CFAF 99 billion for 1995. The
Government's contribution will be provided to AGETIP from Government budgetary resources to finance
new subprojects (in addition to those financed by IDA and other cofinanciers) (para 4.1(e)). It was
agreed during negotiations that the Goverrment will:
(a)   cause the Executing Agency to execute new subprojects of an aggregate value of US$7
million equivalent (CFAF 1.95 billion) before December 1995, of which subprojects
totalling the equivalent of at least US$2.3 million (CFAF 650 million) would be
completed by December 31, 1993. The portfolio of these subprojects will be submitted
to IDA in addition to the US$17 milion financed by IDA and other cofinanciers.
Additional subprojects representing an aggregate cost of at least another US$2.3 million
equivalent (CFAF 650 million) will be completed not later than December 31, 1994
(paras. 4.1(e) and 4.3(d)); and
(b)   make available to AGETIP, out of its own resources, all the funds necessary for the
execution of those subprojects (paras. 4.1(e) and 4.3(d)). On a quarterly basis, these
funds will be made available to AGETIP and a quarterly advance to be made to AGETIP
on the annual amount of the Government's financial contribution to the project will be
a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 4.2(d)).
It is stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement that IDA reserves itself the right not to review the
annual subproject batches submitted by the Agency if the Government has not honored its counterpart
funding obligations as described above (para 4.3 (e)). Munidpalities contribution will be US$20 million
equivalent (CFAF 5.6 bi1lion) or 25 percent of total project costs. Cofinandng totaling US$15 miUlion
equivalent (CFAF 4.2 biUlion) or 19 percent of total program costs) will be assumed by AfDB, CIDA,
EEC, and WFP. These donors have expressed their interest and requested copies of the appraisal report.
Their commitment will be finalized after negotiations. The EEC is about to start the Lome IV program.
Within that program, there are two major civil works interventions of a potential scope totaling US$10
million (CFAF 2.8 billion). It is envisaged that this would provide an opportunity for AGETIP to
execute an additional US$10 million (CFAF 2.8 billion) of civil works. Also, the WFP is planning an
appraisal mission from April 24 to May 9, 1992 in Senegal on works to be given to AGETIP to execute
on a parallel financing program of US$15 million (CFAF 4.2 billion). The proposed financing plan is
set out in the following table:



-20 -
lXble 3.3
Financing PIa
(US$"
I , .. . S_ PaLML                FREGN        T rA      .      OPTrarAL
_ _ _ . ~~~~~~~~~~PROJETC0CSTl
Governm-nat                   7                       7       .      .8.0_
IDA                           is         21           39      .      .48.0l
L_nici;"                      20                      20             2S.0
|Olhe donos                    iS    I    S           is             19.0
TOA  .RJC COST0                           21          81
3.28  AEI'-s AbsoZtiv QWp&gfty. AGETIP is expected to have the capacity to consume thie credits
and to implement subprojects for an amount of US$22 million per year. This amount represents a
doubling of its current credit consumuption. The opening of new regional offices in Kaolack, Saint Louis
and Ziguinchor, and the ensuing decetralization of its operations will make this possible. AGETIP has
a list of 600 prequlalified firms, of which 78 have obtained contracts. Of the 191 engineers prequalified
by the Agency, 97 have had contracts to carry out studies and supervise works. This means that there
is a large enough remahinig capacity in the f;-ald of contractors and consulting engineers. AGETIP will
increase its current 20-person staff to accommodate the additional management personnel necesary to
process the higher volume of works.
ojiect Tmplmntto
3.29   The Govanuent will enter into a Convention with AGETIP. setting forth the various obligations
of both parties. Pailure of either party to comply with its obligations under the Convention, with respect
to project implementation, will be a reason for suspension.
3.30         AGETIP has demonstrated its ability to avoid cumbersome, slow, and inefficient
procedures that public institutions are obliged to follow for ca11ing for bids, awarding contracts and
disbursing, and which result in de facto disarimination against small contractors. AGETIP's operating
procedures and internal organization were well appraised dur ;ng the first phase. Efficiency has been
demonstrated by the adherence to the Procedures Manual confirmed by several supervision and audit
miSsions. At all times during project implementaton, thie Statutes of Agreement of the Agency and the
Procedures Manual must be acceptable to IDA (para. 4.3(a)). To initiate implementation of the second
project, AGETIP will submit for IDA's approval, and as a condition of effectiveness, a list of
subprojects for the firs year of project excecution amounting to a total of US$17 million (CI7AP 4.7
billion) (para 4.2(b)). Also AGETI1P will submit for IDA's approval the second and third annual work
program including batches of subprojects finaced by IIDA, municipalities and other donors, totalling at
least USS16 million (CPAP 4.4 bfiion) each no later than August 31, 1993 and August 31, 1994
respectvely pari. 4.3(c)). Each submission wfll include an analysis of he measures that AGETlP
proposes to implement to ensure that it wil have the absorptive capacity to carry out its mission.
Ink1~~~~~~~~~II~~



-21 -
3.31         In order to ensure expeditious Implementation of the program, the Agency has full
authority and will not be submitted to any ex-ante clearance for carrying out the whole process of project
execution. In particular, the public institutions which will propose subprojects will have to surrender
their authority for execution of the subproject until the delis -ry of the completed works. The mayors of
the municipalities have demonstrated a willingness to respect the concept of matrise d 'ouvrage ddidgu0e.
In return, they will get the works cofinanced by the project in addition to those financed from their own
investment budgets or from the Credit Communal.
3.32         The Agency will be submitted to close ex-post supervision by the Government and will
have to furnish detailed activity reports every other month. The Borrower and IDA will meet at least
once a year during the three-year period of project execution to exchange views with regard to the
progress of the project and subprojects, the management of AGETIP's operations, the performance of
its personnel, including key personnel, the performance by the Agency of its obligations under the
Convention between the Government and AGETIP, and particularly the procurement practices and
procedures being followed by the Agency pursuant to the Procedures Manual. The Special Account of
the Agency will be replenished only upon presentation of properly documented records of the use of the
funds. The above mentioned meetings between the Government and IDA may result in proposing and
implementing any measure that will be deemed useful to ensure actual fulfillment of the project's
objectives, including hiring and dismissal of the Agency's staff. It was agreed at negotiations that there
will be annual reviews of the management of the operations of the Executing Agency, the performance
by the Executing Agency of its obligations under the Convention (including procurement procedures), and
the performance by the Executing Agency and implementing enterprises of their respective obligations
under Subproject Agreements, to be carried out by IDA and Government in October of each year (para.
4. 1(a)).
3.33         The professional experience of the Agency's staff has been acquired primarily from the
private soflor. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government concerning its
responsibilities to ensure that any change in the Directors of the Agency will be acceptable to IDA. The
Agency Director has already proven his capacity to conduct such projects as per results produced during
the first stage. The recruitment of the other regional staff will be based on qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.3 (b)). AGETIP's cost structure has been found to be reasonable and will be
one of the elements reviewed at the annual reviews with IDA and Government.
Procurement
3.34         The procurement procedures according to which the Agency will select contractors and
award contracts are another important feature of the project. These special procurement procedures were
designed to address the issue of employment generation, and at the same time, ensure adequate
competition. They were discussed at appraisal and agreement was reached during negotiations, and will
be included in the updated Procedures Manual. AGETIP's procurement experience indicates that there
is competition and cost savings as several firms have bid for each contract, and that the winning bid is
on average less than 3.8 percent of the estimated price (Annex 10). The reporting on procurement will
be done according to the format outlined in Annex 10.
3.35         It is anticipated that all the civil works contracts will be below CFAF 150 million
(US$540,000). In case any contract is higher tLan this value, International Competitive Bidding
procedures (ICB) will be followed for such procurement contracts.



-22 -
3.36           AGETIP will continue to maintain a roster of contractors eligible for Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB). It will continue to use the list established under the first phase of eligible contractors and
engineering firms according to procedures acceptable to IDA and spelled out in the Procedures Manual.
The roster will stay open during project execution so as to allow additional applications at any time.
Large firms using modern equipment are not likely to be Wnterested by the type and size of most
subprojects proposed, but they are not excluded from participating in the process. The same applies to
foreign firms. The purpose of preregistration will be to determine the contractors who can demonstrate
their ability to carry out the proposed labor-intensive works effectively and will, therefore, be eligible
to bid. IDA will review and approve the new selection and satisfy itself that the procedures agreed with
the Procedures Manual. The actual performance of the contractors who are awarded contracts by the
Agency will provide the basis for the Agency to reassess the contractors' classification, and consequently
upgrade or downgrade them.
Table, 3.4
Summar of Proosed Procurement Affangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Project Element              ICB      NLCBF OTHER              .      TOTAL
1. Public Works                                    59.32                 15.0      74.32
(32.32)                         (32.32)
2. Consultancies
2.1 Consultancies for Pilot Activities                       1.50                 1.50
(1.50)               (1.50)
2.2 Services to Contrators                                   1.50                 1.50
(1.50)               (1.50)
2.3 T.A. to Beneficiaries                                    .25                   .25
(.25)                (.25)
2.4 Prtojet Monitoring                                       .50                   .50
(.50)                (.50)
2.5 Contract Management Study                                 .50                  .50
(.SO)                (.50)
2.6 Mutual Guarantee Company                                  .25                  .25
(.25)                (.25)
2.7 Orassroot Participation                                  .50                   .50
_____________________________             ________      (.50)                (.50)
3. Misellaneous                                                .48                  .48
3.1 PPF Refinancing                                         (.48)                (.48)
TOTAL                                              59.32      5.48        15.0     79.80
(32.32)    (5.48)               (37.80)
Note:   Figures in parentheses show IDA amount. Totals exclude US$1.2 million in price contingencies.
N.I.P. - Not IDA Financed. Works will be procured in accordancewith the Executing Agency's Procedures Manual
(acceptable to IDA). Consulting servics will be procured according to IDA Guidelines.



-23 -
3.37         The target group of firms expected to participate in project procurement comprises
primarily small- and medium-scale enterprises, which are more likely than large ones to bid for labor-
intensive projects. However given the low level of sophistication of these firms in regard to
administrative and financial management, they are currently discriminated against by the procurement
procedures in force for public contracts. This is one of the basic reasons why it has been deemed
necessary to establish a special agency, with private legal status, to implement the project. Basically, the
objective of the standard procurement procedure is to ensure fair competition among eligible contractors
without requiring them to prepare a complex proposal, including detailed calculations of price. The core
of the procurement procedure will be local advertisement among registered contractors of a proposed
contract for a given subproject. All contractors registered in the roster for the category of works and the
area concerned by the subproject will be invited to bid.
3.38         The contract, which will be written in simple language and will describe the scope and
nature of the works, proposes a reference price with some straightforward explanations about its
calculation (unit prices and quantities). Contractors will be invited to bid by way of discounts either on
the total price or on the unit prices. Among eligible bidders, the whiner will be selected on the basis of
the proposed discount and other criteria (such as timeliness of performance) - if any is specified in the
bidding documents - and invited to sign the proposed contract. The contract awarding committee,
composed of the Agency's Director General, Technical and Financial Directors will have futl authority
to select the winner. However, it will have to justify in writing, in the minutes of the meeting, and in
reference to the explicit criteria listed in the bidding documents, any decision not to select the lowest bid.
The contracting awarding committee will open the bids in public and the bidding firms or their
representatives may attend the meeting. For all contracts for which there are less than five bidders or
for contracts with an estimated cost equal to or greater than CFAF 62.5 million (US$250,000), the
awarding committee will submit its decision to IDA for approval prior to notifying the winning bidder.
3.39         Consultant services for training, technical assistance, and project monitoring will procured
according to IDA guidelines spelled out in the "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrower ard by the
World Bank as Executing Agency". For the mode of selection of consultant services, the Agency will
use short-listing for pilot activities and services to contractors, individuals for monitoring, technical
assistance to beneficiaries and grassroot participation, and finally firms for the contract management
study. A summary of the consulting services in man-months required is given in Annex 11.
3.40         These procurement procedures have been used under phase one and have worked well.
As in the first phase, only parallel financing is envisaged. Should joint financing occur, it will be done
in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
Disbursements
3.41         The IDA credit will be disbursed on the basis of the categories shown in Table 3.5. The
closing date will be June 30, 1996. Disbursements will be made on the basis of 100 percent of total
expenditures for IDA's share of civil works and 100 percent for al other categories net of taxes. The
Government will disburse 100 percent against its share of civil works equivalent to 10 percent of the sum
of civil works financed jointly by IDA and by the Government. This procedure has been selected to
ensure the independence of the Executing Agency in making payments to contractors, who have had very
bad experience with disbursement procedures pertaining to payments from counterparts funds. To ensure
that IDA does not disburse all of its contribution without corresponding action by Government, a



- 24 -
condition has been devised to permit IDA to suspend disbursements at the end of the first and second
years, should the Govemnment have failed to make its contribution.
Table 3.5
Disbursements by Categoy
CATEGORY                   AMOUNT  PERCENTAGE FINANCED
(S$M) 
1) Public Work
a) Subprojects                           14.32        50% of expenditures
b) Subprojects                            9.00        90% of expenditures
c) Subprojects financed under incitement fund  6.00   67% of expenditures
2) Pilot Activities                                    100% of expenditures
a) Public Works                           3.00
b) Consultants services                   1.50
3) Consultant Services for Training, Studies and  3.50  100% of expenditures
Monitoring
5) PPF Refinancing                          0.48
6) Unallocated                              1.20
TOTAL                                    39.00
3.42         To expedite project implementation, a Special Account denominated in CFAF will be
opened at a commercial bank and maintained and operated on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
The authorized allocation will be CFAF 600 million, representing anticipated eligible expenditures
financed by IDA for a four-month period.
3.43         All withdrawal applications will be accompanied by full documentation, except for
coL.racts for civil works valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent and for goods and services valued at
less than US$20,000 equivalent for which disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). In such cases the relevant documentation will be retained by AGETIP for review
by IDA supervision missions and the project's external auditors.
Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
3.44         The accounting system will be revised and updated to take into account the expansion and
decentralization of AGETIP's operations. This revision and the appointment of auditors are conditions
of credit effectiveness (para. 4.2(e)). Consolidated project accounts will be maintained by the Agency.
These accounts will be audited every six months by independent auditors acceptable to IDA according
to terms of reference agreed by IDA. The auditors will be appointed for a period of three years.
Auditors will express separate opinions on statements of expenditures and special accounts. Project
accounts and auditors' reports will be submitted to IDA within three months of the close of each



-25 -
semester. So far under the first phase, all audit reports have been satisfactory and on time. Besides
financial audits, AGETIP will be submitted to bi-monthly management audits, and a technical audit will
be undertaken annually. The Agency will submit monthly progress reports and prepare a project
completion report (PCR) within three months of the closing date.
Suerviso Plan
3.45         The output indicators to measure project performance will be the following: (a) number
of Convendons de Mafrse d'Ouvrage Ddlegu0e, (b) number of contracts signed with enterprises, (c)
number of contracts completed, (d) percentage of contracts completed on time and on budget, (e)
percentage of contracts completed on budget, (f) percentage of payments to contractors within 30 days
of invoice reception, (g) number of person-days of employment created, (0) average time for processing
contracts, (i) number of GEs awarded contracts, and U) number of studies completed. Table 3.5 below
indicates the desired numbers and percentages to be achieved for each project year.
Table 3.6
Key Indicators
.K.,.a          -.M l
Indicator                 | Year I   Year2 jYear3
No. of Conventions de Maftrise d'Ouvrage Dgliguie    130  140     150
No. of contracts signed                         260      280      300
No. of works contracts completed                 85       130     140
Percentage of contracts completed on time        80       90      100
Percentage of contracts completed on budget      80       90      100
Percentage of payments to contractors within 30  80       90      100
days of invoice receipt
No. of person-days of employment created (million)    1.12  1.12  1.12
Average time for processing contracts (working   40       30       20
days)
No. of GIE awarded contracts                     26       42       60
No. of studies completed                         4        4        4
The Project will be supernsed every four months. Supervision missions will consist of field trips
to visit work sites to review financial and management practices, bidding, and payments procedures,
micro- and small-enterprise participation as well as maimizaton of employment creation.
Supervision missions will also monitor carefully the number of ma2tres d'oeuvre, the number of firms



-26-
bidding and winning contracts and the number of firms receiving technical assistance. The necessary
staff Inputs for supervislon are as follows: seven staff weeks in FY93, six in FY94, six in FY95
and four in FY96 for a total of 23 staff weeks. A detailed supervision plan is shown in Annex 12.
Environmental Impact
3.46       AGETIP's projects in the areas of sanitation and cleaning of urban drainage, urban
renewal, road maintenance, public gardening, garbage collection, school and clinic construction and
rehabilitation have been found to have led to significant improvements in the urban environment.
Several projects involving garbage collection have had a positive impact on the environment
especially through the removal of tons of hazardous materials along the river banks in Saint Louis.
The land cleared has been used for community vegetable gardening. Other cases have to do with the
elimination of stagnant water and the cleaning of canals in Kaolack and Rufisque. Street and
sidewalk paving and desanding in Dakar and other cities have led to better traffic flow and have
diminished the incidence of flooding during the rainy season as the drains are clear from large
quantities of silt. Overall, the impact of AGETIP has been felt on the ecology as many sites have
been cleared from pollution. Improvement in public hygiene has led to reduced disease in Kaolack
where, for the first time in years, there has not been any cholera.
3.47       Many of the subprojects, both works and services, will have a positive Impact on the
urban environment. This is particularly true of subprojects such as soil and water conservation
works, drainage improvements and terracing, sanitation improvements, planting and park works, and
solid waste collection. AGETIP is in the process of hiring a full-time environmental engineer to
carry out an environmental assessment of its project portfolio. The engineer will examine all
subprojects pertaining to sand-removal, drainage, building and road rehabilitation, and garbage
collection to determine their environmental impact and make recommendations on how to mitigate
any adverse impacts. An additional subproject eligibility criterion will be added to AGETIP's
updated Procedures Manual stating that subprojects must not have a negative impact on the
environment.  Finally, the annual technical audits will also include an assessment of the
environmental impact of subprojects.
Economic Analysis and Benefits
3.48       An economic analysis has been carried out for a sample of actual subprojects executed
under the first project on the basis of a comparison of discounted economic costs and benefits over
time. Specific benefits depend on the type oi subproject, but include among other things:
(a)  reductions in vehicle operating costs (in the case of urban road maintenance or
*ehabilitation subprojects);
(b)  reductions in the cost of services, in the case of labor-intensive garbage collection which
would otherwise be undertaken by more mechanized technologies; and
(c)  avoided cost of reconstruction (in the case of subprojects involving maintenance or
rehabilitation of infrastructure and/or buildings that would otherwise deteriorate).



- 27 -
Projects involving sidewalk stabilization, street desanding, sewer and gutter cleaning, repair of
underground water mains, drainage of low-lying areas have been found to have internal rates of
return ranging from 19 percent to 50 percent in the case of hospital rehabilitation. In the case of road
maintenance involving regrading, regravelling and resealing, the rates of return have been found to
be between 11 percent and 22 percent. Finally for garbage collection and other low-cost sanitation,
the rates of return are around 29 percent.
3.49       The project will create low-cost, short-term employment opportunities using private
sector enterprises in the execution of social and economic public works. It will generate incomes for
many categories of the work force (in the building and construction trades). The project will also
help the Government in the area of project management. It will demonstrate the efficiency of private
sector management in public works execution. Subprojects concerned with garbage collection and
sewer cleaning will produce environmental benefits.
3.50       Finally although it is difficult to be precise about the xolm  of epo  that will
be created by the project and the program, to obtain a national estimate, we assume that:
(a)   on average, 33 percent of subproject contract amounts will be paid out in wages
(including social security); and
(b)  actual average wages are about CFAF 1800 per day (including social security); this
average wage overestimates payments received by workers in subcontracting informal
sector microenterprises.
On this basis, it is estimated that about 1.12 million person-days of employment will be created by
the project every year. Assuming an annual construction period of nine months, the project will
create about 5,600 jobs per year. To the extent that actual average wages are lower than indicated
above, the amount of employment created would be greater.
Rink
3.51       The main risks concern the continuation of the Agency after the project. IDA will not
continue its support of the Agency under Government auspices, i.e., through credit to the
Government to be passed on to AGETIP in grant form. Specific measures for cost recovery such as
the introduction of a service fee by the Agency for execution works are designed to maximize this
possibility. The introduction of cost-sharing by the municipalities is intended to create the conditions
for AGETIP to operate independently of IDA and other donor financing after the Project ends.
Another risk is the fear that the Government may try to influence the Agency resulting in the latter's
loss of independence and operational efficiency. These risks wil be minimized by the establishment
of internal control mechanisms and appropriate supervisory procedures by independent engineering
and consulting firms. The risk of political interference wil be reduced by strict adherence to the
Procedures Manual.
3.52       AGEI's futur. The private legal status of AGETIP makes it difficult to predict how
it will evolve at the end of the IDA credit. It is possible, however, to indicate certain options that
its owners wil be able to choose among, as there wiUl be no special projects or markets reserved to
support its activities in the area of delegated contract management. The flrst option is for AGETIP



- 28 -
to continue with Its current status as a non-governmental organization (NGO) with the same board.
A second option is Its conversion to a for-profit organization in which shares will be sold to its
current board members and to other investors. A third option is that it might split up Into smaller
AGETPs. A fourth option Is that a scheme of joint ownership by the current employees alone or
associated with the municipalities could be considered. Assets would be appraised and bought at their
historical cost with a provision for amortization. In all cases, the members of its board wUi decide
its future.
SECTION IV - AGREMENT  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
ARM         abed during Negotiations
4.1        During negotiations, agreement was reached concerning:
(a)  dates for the annual reviews (para 3.32);
(b) the exception criteria for municipal project coflnancing (para. 3.10);
(c) terms of reference for the contract management audit study and a schedule for an Action
Plan to implement the changes as recommended In the study (para. 3.22);
(d)  taning programs for contractors (para 3.19) and beneflciaries (para. 3.20); and
(e)  the government's financial contribution (para. 3.27).
Condions of Effectiveness
4.2        Conditions of efectiveness are that:
(a) AGETIP and GOS have signed a new Convendon which will include an updated
Procedures Manual and enated revired By-Laws to take into account AGETIP's pilot
activities (para. 3.8);
(b) AGETEP has submitted to IDA a first batch of subprojects amounting to a total of
US$17 million (CFAP 4.7 billion), for Implementation during the flrst year (para.
3.29). In addition, AGETP will submit to IDA another batch of subprojects mounting
to US$2.3 million flnanced through the Government's contribution (para 3.27);
(c)   AGETP has submitted an Action Plan for the next phases of the trainW  program for
the beneflciaries and for grassroots paricipadon program (paras. 3.20 and 3.24);
(d) AGETIP has received in Its accounts a quarterly advance on the annual amount of
Government financial contribution to the project (para. 3.27); and



-29 -
(e)   AGETIP has revised its accounting system to take into account the expansion and
decentralization of Its operations, and has appointed auditors for a period of three years
(para. 3.44).
AgEeMents Reached and Reflected In the Developmentedit Agement and Convendon
4.3        The fbllowing agreements are reflected in the Development Credit Agreement and
Convendon:
(a)  at all times during project implementation, the Statutes of Agreement of the Agency and
the Procedures Manual must be acceptable to IDA (para. 3.8);
(b)  at all times during project implementation, the Directors of the Agency must be
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.33);
(c)  the Agency will submit to IDA the second and third annual work programs including
batches of subprojects financed by IDA, the municipalities and co-financiers, totalling
at least US$16 million (CFAF 4.4 billion) no later than August 31, 1993 and US$16
million no later than August 31, 1994 respectively (para. 3.30);
(d)  (i)  the Executing Agency will execute new subprojects (in addition to those referred
to in subpara. (c) above) of an aggregate value of US$7 million equivalent
(CFAF 1.95 billion) before December 1995, of which subprojects totalling the
equivalent of at least US$2.3 million (CFAF 650 million) would be completed
by December 31, 1993. The portfolio of these subprojects will be submitted to
IDA in addition to the US$17 million financed by IDA and other cofinanciers.
Additional subprojects representing an aggregate cost of at least another US$2.3
million equivalent (CFAF 650 million) will be completed not later than
December 31, 1994 (para. 3.27 (a)); and
(ii)  make available to AGETIP, out of its own resources, all the funds necessary for
the execution of those subprojects. On a quarterly basis, these funds will be
made available to AGETEP and a quarterly advance to be made to AGETIP on
the annual amount of the Government's financial contribution to the project
(para. 3.27 (b)); and
(e)  IDA reserves itself the right not to review the annual subproject batches submitted by
the Agency if GOS has not honored its counterpart funding obligation (para 3.27).
4.4        Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a credit of US$39
million equivalent (CFAF 10.7 billion) to the Republic of Senegal on standard IDA terms.



-30-
SENEGAL
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES 1- 12



-31 -
ANNEX I
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
EXECUTING AGENCY'S BY-LAWS and STATUTES



32                               Annex 1
EXECUTING AGENCY OF THE
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
BYLAWS OF THE ASSOCIATION
TITLE I -- GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article ls Name
In accordance with the laws and regulations currently in effect in
Senegal, there is established, among the legal persons adhering to this
status, an association named the 'Executing Agency of the Public Works and
Employment Project".
Article 2: Headquarters
The headquarters of the association is located at  ............
Article 3: Duration
The association shall have a duration of ........ years.
The association may be extended, as may be needed, by a decision of the
General Assembly as provided under article 10 of these Bylaws.
Article 4: Objectives
Within the framework of project administration and, apart from any
profit motive, the association's purpose in Senegal is to undertake any
action aimed at increasirg over tae short term the demand for public works
and the creation of jobs for unskilled workers and workers with few skills.
For this purpose, the Association establishes the following main
objectives:
(a)  Create,   at  least  temporarily,   substantial  new  employment
principally in urban areas as rapidly as possible;
(b) Improve, through execution of the works financed by the project,
the individual skills of the workers who will be employed, the corporate
competitiveness of the firms that will carry out works, so as to develop
sustained employment after completion of the project;
(c) Demonstrate the feasibility of widening the area of application of
labor-intensive projects and develop the procedures that would enable the
public sector to commission such projects; and
(d) Prod4ce project results that are economically and socially useful.



33                              Annex 1
Article St Composition
The Association is composed of the following founding members:
(a) Mr. Maguatte Wade (profession), (address);
(b) Union of Construction and Public Works Workers (abbreviation),
represented by its Secretary General; union headquarters: ..............;
(c) National Council of Employers of Senegal (CNP), repreeented by its
Chairman.  Association headquarters: ....        ............... *........... ; and
(d) Association of Mayors of Senegal (abbreviation), represented by its
Chairman; association headquarters: ...........................
Article 6: New Members
Acceptance of new memberr is by vote upon the proposal of a former
member.
Acceptunce of a legal persun should be requested to the President of the
Assembly provided under article 11 of these Bylaws. The legal person should
communicate in writing to the President the name and address of his
representative at the request of the Association.
The General Assembly, provided under article 10, must approve acceptance
of new members.
Acceptance of new members shall take effect upon notification in writing
to the interested party by the Chairman of the Association, following payment
of the new member's dues.
TITLE II -- ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION
Article 7: Disqualification of members
A member's capacity as an Association member is lost by:
(a) death of a member who is a natural person;
(b) dissolution of a member who is a legal person; and
(c) resignation or removal foE serious cause declared by the General
Assembly; determinatior of serious cause is within the authority of the
General Assembly.
Article 8: Modes of loss of capacity as member
A member may resign at any time by notifying the Chairman in writing.
The r^>;ration takes effect at the time the notice is received by the
Chairman, unless otherwise stated in the letter of resignation; it is not



34                               Annex 1
necessary for this resignation to be accepted for it to take effect, unless
it is deemed necessary to postpone resignation.
The resignation does not affect the member's obligation, if any, to pay
his dues for the year in which the resignation takes effect.
The General Assembly shall remove any member whose conduct is harmful
to the Association. The member shall be notified in writing by the President
of the Assembly.
Article 9t Resources
The Association's resources are comprised of:
(a)  annual dues of its members, set at CFAF .........., to be paid each
year prior to    .. ........ ; and
(b) subsidies and/or donations that may be paid to it by the Government
of Senegal or by any other organization or foreign country.
Article 10: General Assembly
The Association is administered by a General Assembly composed of the
members whose dues are currently paid.
Article ll: Presidency of the General Assembly
The presidency of the General Assembly is the responsibility of
Mr. Haguatte Wade, founding member of the Association.
The President convenes the members of the Assembly and leads the
discussions.  In the case of a tie vote, the President casts the deciding
vote.
The President may require the presence at the Assembly of any other
person, other than its members, as he deems necessary.
The President must order preparation of the minutes of each meeting of
the Assembly.
All decisions of the General Assembly shall be made only if a quorum is
present and there is a majority of two-thirds of the votes of the members
present or represented at the meeting.
Article 12: Powers of the General Assembly
The Assembly is the supreme organ of the Association.
It is responsible for realizing the corporate goals.
For this purpose, the General Assembly shall delegate all powers to the
Director General provided under article 14 of these Bylaws in order to carry
out those objectives and to manage the Agency.



35                              Annex 1
The Assembly shall meet uhen convened by its President at &east once
each year and as often as necessary. Notice of the meetings shall be sent at
least 15 days in advance by registered mail with return receipt requested or
by transmittal memorandum, stating the date, place and agenda for the
meeting.
In the event that, due to reasons not imputable to the Association, a
member does not receive the notice of the meeting, the member cannot pursue
the procedure to nullify the decisions taken at said meeting.
An Association member may give written proxy to another member for the
purpose of representing him at the meetings of the Assembly.
Article 13s Management of Association activities -- Director General
The Association shall designate its President as the Director General,
whose mission is to be responsible for management of Agency activities.
No member of the Association other than the Director General may
intervene in this management.
The Director General is appointed for the entire duration of the
Association.
The functions of the Director General are inherent in the capacity of
a member of the Association.
Article 14: Removal of the Director General
In the event of serious failure to perform his obligations, the Director
General shall be removed by decision of the General Assembly.
At that meeting, the Assembly shall elect an interim President before
taking any other action.
The interim President shall be elected by secret ballot if a quorum is
present and by majority vote, as set out in article 11 for the purposes of
these Bylaws.
When the decision is voted on, the Director General's vote is not taken
into consideration.
The interim President shall notify the Director General of the removal
by registered letter with return receipt requested.
The removal action itself causes loss of membership in the Association,
in accordance with article 13 of these Bylaws.
Article 15: Powers of the Director General
The Director General has very broad powers to ensure proper operation
of the Agency and performance of the mission assigned to him by the Assembly.



36                               Annex 1
The Director General may contract with outside consulting firms for the
tasks that he deems necessary for execution of the various functions assigned
to him.
The Director General has full responsibility for the funds placed at his
disposal.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting standards and
customarily applied practices, he m.-st maintain accounts and files relating
to his management.
Administration of the Agency by the Director General should conform to
the provisions of the procedures manual that will subsequently be issued.
The Director General is responsible for oversight of proper enforcement
of the project's internal regulations.
He may move the Association's corporate headquarters.
Article 16, Changes in the Bylaws and dissolution
These Bylaws cannot be changed except by the General Assembly under the
conditions of a quorum and by vote of two-thirds majority of the members
present or represented, as provided under article 11.
The Association shall be dissolved upon expiration of the duration
provided under article 3, first paragraph, subject to the possibility that it
may be extended under paragraph 2 of such article.
In the event of dissolution, the General Assembly shall appoint one of
its members to be in charge of liquidation of che Association's property.
In the event of dissolution, that person shall place all property
acquired by the Association at the disposal of the Government of Senegal.
Article 17: Approval of the Association as a nongovernmental
organizaLion (NGO)
The President shall dispose of all powers to have the Association
accepted as a national NGO.
Article 18: Monitoring Association activities
The ministries of Social Development and of ............ or their
representatives have the right to visit the Association's installations and
facilities in the presence of the President of the Association.
Dakar, (date)



37                               Annex 1
INTERNAL REGULATIONS
TITLE I -- GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1s General Provisions
These internal regulations are promulgated in accordance with the
provisions of Law 61-34 of June 15, 1961, establishing in Senegal a Labor
Code and the national inter-professional collective bargaining agreement of
May 2, 1982.
These regulations are intended to ensure, within the Project ........s
(a) Technical organization of the work;
(b) Discipline;
(c) Sanitary working conditions; and
(d) Safety.
The regulations are applicable tn all persons employed, regardless of
status.
At the time of appointment, the employee shall acknowledge receipt of
the regulations.
The regulations are to be posted in accordance with current regulations.
(a)  A procedures manual will be issued.   This manual provides the
detailed rules for administrative procedures, which are compatible with, and
providing for control in accordance with, the terms of the credit agreement.
Article 2: Contents
The internal regulations include:
(a) technical organization;
(b) staff recruitment methods;
(c) work organization;
(d) discipline;
(e) modes of breaking a contract of employment; and
(f) health and safety.



38                              Annex 1
TITLE IIs TECHNICAL ORGANIZATION
* ORGANIZATION CHART AND DIVISION OF FUNCTIONS
Article 3: Objectives
The objectives are set out in the procedures manual.
Article 4: Organization Chart
The organization chart is also established (see attached table).
Article St Division of functions of management staff
* The Financial Director is responsible for proper operation of the
accounting, financial and legal offices.
He coordinates all the actions of the legal department, the accounting
department and the control department.
He is responsible for maintaining the accounting system of the project
in accordance with current standards in Senegal.
He is responsible for budgetary, accounting and treasury control.
He is in charge of relations with the outside accounting and auditing
firms.
* The Technical Director is responsible for monitoring administration
and for acceptance of the works.
He coordinates the actions of the projects department.
Details of the staff functions are set out in the procedures manual.
TITLE III -- RECRUITMENT
Article 6: Contract of employment
Staff are hired by means of a contract of employment.
The contract of employment should be signed by the Director General of
the Agency and by the workers.
It should include the following elements:
(a) Legal nature of the contract (contract for set period of time);
(b) Surname and given names;
(c) Address;



39                              Annex 1
(d) Duration;
(e) Position to be occupied; and.
(f) Basic salary, bonuses, compensation and benefits granted to the
worker.
The worker must provides
(a) record of birth;
(b) judicial record;
(c) documentation supporting the family status (marriage certificate,
etc.);
(d) documentation of diplomas and degrees; and
(e) identification photographs.
In addition, the worker must sign the declaration provided for under
article 9, below.
The Agency should maintain a file on each worker.
Article 7: Recruitment methods
Each worker recruited must undergo a trial period, the length of which
depends on the job he is to occupy.
The trial period is fixed in the contract and cannot exceed the legal
limit.
Article 8. Classification -- remuneration
Classification and remuneration of the employee are fixed depending on
the position to be filled, and in accordance with recognized skills following
the legal and regulatory provisions and the provisions of the collective
bargaining agreement for public works and construction.
Article 9: Agency staff
Agency staff members cannot hold, either directly or through an
intermediary, any interest in the companies or exercise any responsibility in
the public or private institutions that are invited to maintain commercial
relations with the Agency or to benefit from their activity.
Employees cannot accept any remuneration, commission or fee on behalf
of such firms or institutions. Each employee is required, at the time they
are hired by the Agency, to complete a declaration setting forth a listing of
his commitments, interests or holdings that may conflict with the above-
mentioned rule.



40                               Annex 1
Each employee is allowed a period of one month in which to divest
himself of such commitments, interests or holdings.
Compliance with this requirement is a necessary condition of permanent
employment.
TITLE IV -- ORGANIZATION OF WORK
* HOURS OF DUTY
Article lOt Daily and weekly work hours
The weekly work hours are fixed at 40
The daily work hours are fixed as followst
* 8sOO a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 6s30 p.m.
The work week is Monday through Friday.
Work hours shall be posted. Chqnges in the hours of duty must also be
posted.
Duty coverage on Saturday morning shall be provided by management staff
on a rotating basis; a schedule of duty will be established later.
Article ll Overtime
Overtime cannot be performed except with the approval of the supervisor.
The Director General of the Agency should be informed.
Under this regulation, any hour worked in addition to the fixed hours
of duty under the preceding article constitutes an hour of overtime and
entitles the worker to remuneration calculated in accordance with labor laws.
* ABSENCES
Article 12t Absence for illness or personal time off
For any absence, the Director General of the Agency or the chief of the
department concerned should be informed thereof.   During hours of duty a
worker may not be absent from his post, even for service reasons, without
permission from the supervisor.
(a) Absences due to illness should be supported by filing a medical
certificate within 48 hours.
(b) Absences allowed for personal use are those provided under the
national inter-professional collective bargaining agreement (article 18 of
the agreement); the employer must be informed in advance.
Article 13: Legal right to vacation



41                               Annex 1
The right to have a vacation is acquired by the worker after an
effective period of 12 months, called the "reference period."
It does not automatically entitle the employee to take a vacation. The
employee has the right to take the vacation in part, except that six work
days must be taken.
The Director General of the Agency or the heads of the offices shall
prepare a plan for vacation absences of the staff members under their
responsibility.
Article 14: Other absences
Other absences allowed under labor laws shall follow the provisions of
current regulations.
* PAYMENT OF SALARIES
Article 15s Payment dates
Salary payments are made at the end of each month for all staff members.
Payment is made either by deposit to the employee's postal or bank account,
in cash at the offices of the company, or by check sent to the worker.
Each payday, a pay slip is sent to the employee, who must initial it,
in accordance with current provisions of law and regulation.
Any worker may request an explanation or information relating to his
salary.   He must address any question to the official in charge of the
payroll office.
TITLE V -- DISCIPLINE
* TARDINESS - ABSENCES
Article 16: Tardiness
Tardiness in arriving at work must be explained to the supervisor.
Article 17: Short-term absences
The worker cannot leave or go away from his work post without
permission.   For reasons of service,  he must notify his supervisor in
advance.
* CONDUCT
Article 18: Access to offices -- professional secrecy
Within the area of the work place and during hours of duty, employees
must avoid conduct that may disturb the work.



42                               Annex 1
No person may have access to offices unless their presence is required
for work purposes.
Employees are subject to professional secrecy and cannot divulge secret
information to third parties.
In general, the staff is subject to secrecy, impartiality and discipline
similar to such obligations imposed on Government employees.
Laborers and drivers are required to keep in order their tools,
machinery and vehicles after hours of duty.
It is formally forbidden for drivers to transport any person unless
required by the work.  In the event of an accident, the project bears no
responsibility.
* SANCTIONS
Article 19t Main sanctions
Sanctions for infractions under these internal regulations aret
(a) oral remarks;
(b) warning;
*c) reprimand;
(d) suspension from duty; and
Ce) dismissal.
Article 20: Taking sanction measures
The supervisor makes the decision to impose sanctions; depending on the
seriousness of the infraction committed, the sanctions may be imposed
directly by the Director General of the Agency.
When the sanction is taken by the supervisor, except in the case of oral
remarks, the Director General of the Agency should be informed in advance.
Article 21. Appeals and claims
Appeals and claims should be filed first with the supervisor. If the
worker does not receive a response to his appeal or claim, or if he is not
satisfied, he may file an appeal himself directly with the Director General
of the Agency.
TITLE VI -- BREAKING AN EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT
Article 22t Resignation - Dismissal



43                              Annex 1
Resignations and dismissals are subject to applicable laws and
regulations.
Article 23: Pre-notification
The party wishing to break the contract must allow a pre-notification
period as provided under applicable laws and regulations.
TITLE VII - HEALTH AND SAFETY
Article 24t Safety and health instructions
Each worker is required to obey the regulations relating to the
prevention of work accidents and occupational disease, while following, in
particular, safety instructions.
Safety instructions shall be posted at the work sites to allow employees
to become familiar with them.
Article 25a Failure to follow instructions
Any failure to follow instructions shall give rise to disciplinary
action as provided under article 16.
Article 26: Work accidents
In the event of an accident at work, the victim and any other workers
are required to give immediate notice of the accident to the person in charge
in the Agency.
This person is responsible for carrying out health-care formalities and
paperwork processing at the Social Security Office.
Article 27a Miscellaneous provisions
In accordance with current provisions, these internal regulations shall
be communicated to the workers by posting and shall be subject to inspections
by labor and social security officials as well as any other authorities as
provided under current regulations.
Dakar, (date)
Director General of the Agency



44
Statuts modifies et projet
de procEs-verbal d'Assembl6e Ginerale



45
AGETIP
-...l.......
PROCES VERBAL
DE L'ASSEMBLEE GENERALE EXTRAORDINAIRE
DU ..................
L'An Mil Neuf Cent Quatre Vingt Douze.....................................................
Et lec..............................................................
Los Membres de rAssociation du Projet de Travaux dlntdret Public conte le Sous-
Emploi (AGETIP) se sont rcunis en Assemblee Gdndrale Extraordinaire sur
convocation de leur PrEsidonL
11 a dte tabli une feuillc do prdsence cmargde pa chaque membre do l'Assemblie en
entrant en sEance.
Le Bureau de l'Assemblde se compose come suit:
Monsieur Magatte WADE est nomn6 President de seance
Monsieur Oumar SANE est nommd Scruteur.
............................ est nQngme Secretaire.
IA feuille de prEsence cerdfide exacte par les membresdu bureau en entant en seance
pamet de constater que wous les membres soit prdserns ou reprdsentEs.



46
L'Assemblde etant ainsi rdgulierement constitude, Monsieur le President rappelle
qu'elle ost appelde & ddlibdrer sur lordre du jour suivant:
Prorogation de la dture de l'associadon;
Modificadon des smttuts;
-     Modification du reglement intdeicur;
-     Questions diverses.
Monsieur le Prdsident precise & rassemblee le contexte dans lequel se tient ta prdsente
mission.
En effet, I'AGETIP connait ur: toumant dans ses acdvites avec la mise en place de la
deuxitme phase du projet qui doit ddmarrer au cours de I'ann6e 1992 et qui vise I
traduire les orientations du Gouvernement du Senegal en interventions concretes pour
lapdriode 1992- 1997.
Cette deuxitme phase consiste a associer l'Agence i rexdcution et I la gesdon de
projets econonmueruenz rentables, tant dans les zones urbaines qu'en milieu rumral et
aussi bien sw financement local que sur financement extErieur.
Compte tenu de ces nouveaux objectifs, r'AGETIP se doit de procEder I la revue des
textes de base qui la regissent et dont la modification est de la compdtence de
l'Assembl6e generale.
Plusieurs observations sont dchangees, et personne ne demandant plus la parole,
Monsieur le PrEsident met aux voies les rdsolutions ci-apres.
1lere resolutio
Confonn6ment & rardcle 3 des statuts et compte tenu des nouveaux objectifs de
l'Agence, l'AssemblEe gEndrale decide de proroger la duree de I'Association
pour .        ans renouvelables.
Cette rEsolution est adoptee & runanimite.



47
2eme resolution
Les articles 4, 9, 17 et 18 des statuts sont modifies ou completds ainsi qu'il
SUit:
*     Article 4 Nouveau:    Missions de I'Agene.
a/    crder au moins a titre temporire et le plus rapidement possible un
nombre significatif d'emplois nouveaux tant dans les zones urbaines
qu'en milieu rual en vue de decentraliser les acdvitds de l'Agence;
b/    crder des emplois nouveaux permanents en pardcipant a l'execudon et I
la gestion de projets rentables pour l'Agence dans le domaine de la
construction d'infrastructures economiques;
cl    executer des travaux dont le rdsultat sera dconomiquement et
socialement utile;
d/    arneliorer A travers l'execudon des travaux financ6s dans le cadre du
projet, le savoir faire de la main d':cuvre employde, la compdtidvitd des
entreprises qui seront chargdes des chantiers et l'efficacitd des
institudons publiques impliquees, de fapon a ddvelopper une meilleure
capacitd de rdponse de l'economie & des opportunitds de creation
d'emplois durables au-del& de la pdriode d'ex6cution du projet;
el    mettre en place un programme d'appui A la formation et d'assistance
destine & toutes les parties prenantes du projet et principalement aux
PME-PMI; impliquer en prioritd les PME-PMI dans l1exdcution de
travaux et comrmandes publiques confids I l'Agence;
*1'   amener l'Eat a reprendre les mdthodes d'intervention de I'AGETIP, en
les adaptant & ses besoins, le cas dchdant, afin de rendre la gestion de
I'Admir stration plus perfomante ; faire profiter les Etats de la sous-
region de cette experience; "exporter" rexpdrience AGETIP sur le plan
intemadonal.



48
*     Article V Nouveau:    Bssoures
Larticle 9 est ainsi compldte.:
"des revenus desdnds I er rdinvestis dmas rassociation et provenant des
placements effecuzes et des conurepardes perVues par rAgence."
*     ,,,A&ticle 17 Nouveau:   Agrment en tant u'ONG
La prcsente association a e6t agidde en tant qu'ONG Nadonale par lettre
no 06699/DS/DDC du 22 Aoftt 1989 du Ministre du Ddveloppement SociaL
*     Artiele li: Suivi des activites
L'article 18 estainsi moditd :
"la Primatre, en collaboration avec le Secretariat de la Presidence de la
R6publique, est chargEe du suivi des.activites de l'Association. A cc dtre ele peut
visiter les installations, infrastructures et realisadons de lAgence en presence du
PrEsident de lAssociadon."
Cene resolution est adoptee r l'unanimite.
me riaouion
Les articles 4, S    6 du rdglement intErieursont modifids comme suit:
*     ,Article 4 Nouveau (organigrammes):
Voir propositions d'organigrammes aux annexes 5 a 10.
*     Article S Nouveau
La rdpartidon des fonctions du nouveau persomnel dencadrement sera definie par le
manuel des procedures. Les foncdons du Directeur Technique et du Directeur
Administraif et Financier restent inchangEes; celles du Direceur Achat, du Directeur
COT, du Directeur Formation et Consultaions Intcrnadonales seron definies suite I la
finalisadon des dtudes concernant leurs domaines d'action respectifs.



49
A           Cnntrat dg trlavl
Alinda 4 nouveau:
Conformdnaent A rAM:cd de COAt sigpd tame le Gouveaement du Sendgal ct
I'MA" les contrats de tavail conclus entc rAgence et son Personnel sont I durde
dEtemninle, nouvelables sans pouvoir excdder la durde du Projet.
Cette rdsoludon est adapte i lwunanimitE.
Lassemblde donne tous pouvoirs & Monsieur le Prcsident i reffet de faire
prcd   & toutes les formalites lEgales et rEglemencmres.
Plus nien n'etant  lordre du jour, Monsieur le Prdsident l&ve la seance
&.   heures.
Ont sipnd le prisent proc&s verbaL
sdent



so
STATUTS DE L'ASSOCIATION



51
STATUTS DE L'ASSOCIATION
TIIRE T. GENERAL=
Artiee 1:         Denomination
nl est crEi, confornnment aux lois et r6glements en vigueur au S6n6gal, entre les
personnes morales ayant adhere aux statuts, une Associadon dtnomm6e "Agence
dExEcudon du Projet de Travaux d'intert Public conte le Sous-Emploi".
ArtieI:                 Siege
Le siege dce r'Associadon est sis au 03, Place de lInddpendance I Dakar.
ricle a3:               DurEe
La durde de r'Association est de trois (3) annees & compter du 03 Juillet 1989.
Elle pousra etre prorogde en tant que de besoin par decision de l'AssemblEe
GEnerale pr6vue a l'article 10 des presents statuts.
AtCle 4 nouveau         Objectifs
Dans le cadre de la gestion du projet et endehors de tout but lucradf, IAssociation
a pour but au Seuiegal. d'engager toute action en vue de l'augmentation I court
tenme de la demande en matitre de travaux publics et la creation d'emplois pour la
main-doeuvre non qualifiee et peu qualidfe.



52
A cat effet, r'Associadon se fixe les objectifs principaux suivants:
a/   crder au moins a dtre temporaire et le plus rapidement possible un
nombre significatif d'emplois nouveaux cant dans les zones urbaines
qu'en milieu rural in vue de d6cennmliser les acdvitds de lAgence;
b/   creer des emplois nouveaux permanents en participant & l'exdcudon
et a la gestion de projcts rentables pour l'Agence dans le dornaine de
la construction d'inftastructures economiques;
cl   executer des travaux dont le resultat sem dconomiquement et
socialemnt utile;
Yf   amdliorer I travers l'execudon des travaux finances dans le cadre du
projet, le savoir faire de la main d'Muvre employee, la comptitivite
des entreprises qui seront chargees des chantiers et l'efficacitd des
institutions publiques impliquecs, de fagon & ddvelopper une
leilleure capacite de reponse de l'economie a des opportunites de
crEadon demplois durables au-dela de la pEriode d'execution du
projec;
e/    memmc en place un propmme d'appui & la formation et d'assistance
destine a toutes les paries prenantes du projet et principalement aux
PME-PMU; impliquer en prioritd les PME-PMI dans lexecution de
tmvaux et commandes publiques confies & l'Agence;
Z'    arnener l'Etat & reprendre les methodes d'intervendon de rAGETIP,
en les adaptant & ses besoins, le cas EchEant, afin de rendre la gestion
de lAdministradon plus perfonmante; faire profitcr les Etats de la
sous-region de cette experience: "expo^erw l'exp*ience AGETP
sur le plan intemadonaL



53
kU.c1..A5:        Composition
lAssociation se compose des membres fondateurs suivants:
*     Monsieur Maptte WADE, Cadre de Gesdon
20, Avenue Roume - BP 3258 - Dakar;
*     Ic Syndicat des Travailleurs du Baitment ct des Travaux Publics,
siege social 15, Rue Escafait Dakar - BP 5937;
*     Ie Conseil National du Patronat du Scn6gal (CNP) sibge social 4,
Rue Alfred Goux - BP 3537 - Dakar, representz par son Pr6sident
'AMocarSOW;
* rAssociation des Makires du SEnEgal, Siege social 25, Avenue
Pasteur, reprdsentce par son President M. Mamba GUIRASSY.
kUdL6:            Cooptation
LVadhdsion de nouveaux membres se fait par cooptation sur proposition d'un
ancien membre.
LVadhdslon crune personne morale doit etre demandec au Prsident de lAssemblde
pr6vu A radcle 11 des prEsents statuts. La personne morale doit communiquer par
dcrit au PrEsident lc nom et radresse de son reprdsentant dans les instances de
rAssociadon.
L'Assemblee Gendrale, prdvue I l'artible 10 des presents satuts, doit ratifier
radhdsion.
Ladhdsion prend effet & partir de sa nodfication ecrite & rintdressd par le President
de IA3sociation et apres versement de la cotisation du nouveau membre.



54
TfTRE U
ADMWINSTRATION ET FONCTIONNEMENT
Aidd  7:          Porte de la quslitd de membre.
La ualiz de enb  #se ped par:
*    d6cbs d'un memb  pesone physique;
*     dissoludon dun membre personne morale;
-     dmisson ou radiaton pour modif gave pronoac6e par lAssemblEe
GEEalel; rapprdadon du motif grave ea de la compEtence de cette
Adlj:             ModalitEs de la perte de Is qualit de membre
Un membre pout ddmissioner i tou moment en avisam le Pridden par Edcri
La ddisson prod ffet ds qua rinfonnadon et penue au PEsdent, s'll Wy a
pas cindicadon conmirm dans la lettur  e ddmission ; il n'oes pas nEeussir qua
ce= ddmision ott acceptEe pouw a rendro cffetve sauf il erjugE nEcessaIc do
SurSeoli & cell-c.C
La ddmison naffecre pas, le cas echdant, l'obligation du membre de versor ses
cotis  poor lannde au cows de laqueLle sa dEmission prcnd offeL
LAssembde GnEralc pocbe & ia rad on de tout membre dont la coonduite pom
pr4adice i Isocaon.
La radiaton fait lobjer dune notification d"ite au membre par le President de
rAssemblee.



55
Article 9 nouveau:       Ressources
Les wssources de lAssociadon se composent:
des codsadons annuelles de ses membres, fixees & FCFA cinq miule
(5 000), a verser avant le 31 janvier de chaque annde;
-     des subvendons eZfou lib talites qui pounmaient lui etre versdes par
IT= du Senegal ou par tout organisme ou pays etranger;
-     des revenus desdnes I etre r6invesds dans l'Associadon et provenant
des placements effectuds et des contreparies percues par l'Agence.
Ati^le t1          Assemblee Generale
LAssociadon est admniniste par une Assemblde Generale composee des membres
& our de leur codsation.
ArUcle U1         Presidence de I'Assemblee GEnerale
La prEsidence de lAssemblee GEnErae est assurde par Monsieur Magatte WADE,
mnembre fondatew de rAssociadon.
Le President convoque les membres de rAssemblde et dirige les debats. En cas de
pahtge, la voix du PnSsident est prdponddrante.
L;e President pout exiger la prisenc a rAssemblde do toute personne autre que ses
membres s'il r'esime n6cessaire.
Le President doit faire rdiger apres chaque seance un procts-verbal de la rdunion
de l'Assemblee.
Toutes les dEcisions de l'Assemblde Gdndrale sont prises dans les conditions de
quonru et de majoritd egales aux deux tiers des voix des membres prdsents ou
1eprd0ntes.



56
Article 1         Pouvoirs de I'AssembIee Gendrale
LAssemblde est l'organe souverain de l'association.
Elle est chargde de la .ealisadon de l'objet social.
A cet effet, cle d6lfgue tous les pouvoirs au Directeur Gdneral prevus I I'aricle 15
des presents statuts pour la realisation de cet objet et pour la gestion de rAgence.
L'Assemblee se reunit sur convocation de son President au moins une (1) fois par
an et en tant que de besoin. Les convocations sont envoyees au moins quinze (15)
jours I I'avance par lettre recommandee avec accusd de reception ou par cahier de
transniission et indiquent la date, le lieu et l'ordre du jour de la rE6nion.
Au cas ob, pour des raisons independantes de l'Association, un membre n'aurait
pSs requ sa convocation, il ne pourra pas declencher de procedure d'annulation des
t*isions prises lors de ladite rdunion.
Un membre de l'Association peut donner procuration ecrite i un autre membre a
1'effe.t de le reprdsenter aux reunions de r'Assemblee.
Arffclg_lU         Gestion des activit6s de I'association
Le Directeur GenEral
L'Associadon ddsigne son President comme Directeur General avec pour mission
d'assurer la gestion des activites de l'Agence.
En dehors du Directeur General, aucuni autre membre de lAssociation ne peut
intervenir dans cette gesdon.
Le Directeur GEnEal est ddsigne pour toute la durde de l'Associadon.
Les fonctions de Directeur GEndral sont inscparables de la qualitd de membre de
r'Associadon.



57
Artlcle 14:       Revocation du Directeur General
En cas de manquement grave & ses obligations, le Dircteur GnEral est rcvoqud par
ddcision de lAssemblee Gn"ealo.
A cette sEance, l'Assembldo Elit avant toute docision un PrEsient intEci.aire.
Le President intErimaire est dlu au scrutin secret aUx conditions de quorum et do
majorirE privues & rarticle 11 in fine des presents suts.
Lois du vote de la dEcision, la voix du Diecteur GEneral n'est pas prise en compte.
La rEvocadon est sipifieo au D tr   GEnEal par lette recoummnndec avec accusd
do rEcepdon par le PrEsident intdrimaire.
LA revocadon entraine dfoffice la perte de la qualitE de membre de IAssociation,
conformEmnt a rarticle 13 in fine.
&dtiCle 15:       Pouvoirs du Directeur GnEraml
Le Directeur GEndral a les pouvoirs les plus Etendus pour assurer le bon
fonctionnoment de rAgencet pour rexecudon de la mission qui lui est confiee par
r'Assemblde.
Le Directeur Gdndral pout confier & des consultants externes spEcialisis les
missions qui lii semblent ndcessaires pour rexdcution des diffErentes thches qui lui
sont assignEes.
Lc Diroctcur GdnEal a rnire responsabilitd des fonds mis & Ia disposition.
II doit tenir,-confomiiment aux normes comptables gdnEralemont admises et aux
usages uniformdmcnt appliquds, des livres de comptes et des dossiers roladfs & sa
gesdon.
La gestion de r'Agence par 1. Direhcur GdnEl doit et conforme aux disposidons
du manuel d procEdures qui sera ultrieuromont mis en place.



58
Le Directeur G6neral est chargE de veiller I la bonne applicadon du reglement
interieur du projet
II peut proc6der au transfert du siege social de r'Association.
Artife li 6:      Modification des statuts et dissolution
Les prEsents statuts ne peuvent Ote modifies que par rAssemblEe GEne&We dans les
condtidons de quorum et de majoritd, des deux tiers (2/3) des membres prEsents ou
represent6s, prevuesa &rarticle 11. I
LAssociaton est dissoute r rexpiradon de la durEe prdvue & l'article 3 - alinea ler,
sous rEserve de la possibilite de prorogation prevue a l'alinca 2 du meme article.
En cas de dissolution, I'Assemblee Generale dEsignp parmi ses membres une
personne chargEe de la liquidation des biens de rAssociation.
Tous les biens acquis par l'Associadon seront par eUe mis I la disposidon de 1'EWt
du S6n6gal en cas de dissolution.
Article 17 Nouyeau:  Agrement de I'Association en tant
qu'Organisation Non Gouvernementale
(ONG)
La prEsente association a 6te agr&e en tant queONG Nationale I 22 AoEt 1989.
Article 18 Ngoueau      Suivi des activitds
La Primat, en coUaboration avec le SecrEtariat Ginral de la Prdsidence de la
Rdpublique, est chargEe du suivi des activites de rAssociadon. A cc dte, cIe peut
visiter les ifstallations, infswucturs et raisadons de rAgence en prisence du
PrEsident de rAssociadon.
Fait k Dakar, le



59
ANNEX2
CONVENTION MODIFIEE



60
CONVENTION N 2
ENTRE
LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
ET
L'AGENCE D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
DE TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC
CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI



61
CONVENTION
Entre Ic gouvernement de la Rdpublique du SEnegal reprdsentd par le Ministre de
lEconomie, des Finances et du Plan agissant au nom et pour le compte du
gouveernemnt et appelc dans cc qui suit sous le vocable : rAdministradon;
d'une part;
et
l'Agence dExEcution du Projet de Travaux dlnztret Public cont1 le Sous-Emploi,
representde par son Directur Geneal, ci-aprbs ddnomm6e l'Agence,
d'autre part;
i a Ec convenu et axr&E ce qui suit:



62
PREAMBULE
"Considerant l'accord de cretdit de developp 'ment en date du .................... entre
la REpublique du SEnegal (1'Emprunteur) et I'Association Internaionale de
Ddveloppement (l'Association) aux termes duquel l'association a acceprd d'accorder
i llEmprunteur un crEdit en vue du financement du projet : AGETIP.
Attendu que ledit Accord prevoit en son article premier quune convention sera
signEe entre lErnprunteur ct IAGETIP;
Attendu que ladite convention a etd effectivement conclue entre les parties
susmentionnees en date du 04 Aobt 1989 (Convention n 1);
A:tendu cependant qu'un nouvel accord a ete signe entre l'Association ct
VEmprunteur en vue de la realisadion des nouveaux objectifs de l'Agence
d'exdcuton ; qu'il prEvoit en son article ... la conclusion d'une nouvelle convention
& signer enre lEmpruntceur c l'Agence, convention qui fera partic integrante de
rAccord.
En consEquence, le Gouvemnement de la Republique du SinEgal et lAgence
d'Execudion sont convenus de cc qui suit:



63
11TREJ1
Article nremier nouveau: Missions de I'Agence
Les principales missions de rAgence consistent notrnment A:
a/    creer au moins I titre temporaire et le plus rapidement possible un
nombre significatif d'emplois nouveaux tant dans les zones urbaines
qu'en milieu rural en we de d6centraliser les acdvitds de I'Agence;
b/    crder des emplois nouveaux permanents en participant I lexecution
ot a la gesdon de projets renmables pour l'Agence dans le domaine de
la constructon d'infrastructures dconomiques;
ci    exdcuter des travaux dont le rdsultat seo  dconomiquement et
socialement utile;
4'    aimdliorer A travers rexdcution des travaux financ6s dans le cadre du
proje le savoir faire de la main d'ceuvre employee, la compdtitivitd
des entreprises qui seront chargdes des chantiers et lefficacitd des
institutions publiques impliqudes, de faqon a ddvelopper une
meilleure capacitd de rdponse de l'economie I des opportunit6s de
creation d'emplois durables au-dela de la pdriode dexecution du
projet;
e/    merte en place un programme d'appui A la formation et d'assistance
destine a toutes les parties prenantes du projet et principalement aux
PME-PMI; impliquer en priorite les PME-PMI dans l'exdcudon de
travaux et commandes publiques confies & lAgence;
fl    amener l'Etat a reprendre les mdthodes dintervention de rAGETIP,
en los adaprant A ses besoins, Ie cas echdant, afin do rendre la gestion
de l'Adminisrration plus performante; faire profiter les Etats de la
sous-rdgion do cette expErience; "exporter" 1'experience AGETIP
sur le plan intemationaL



a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
pie 2~~t



.9       a
ii              =
'ii             :1    1
II               Ua       8
1!               1        I
U                       I
iI  I    'U   ii
8        *8.6
-  k                         1.2
u.  I        V        I

'6
U
U  I;;   '4I  'a  IA
'44
jjj            J*  ;.g   I  ii.
I                             ILi
II
b
*1 *i  :1  ii   j
I .i1 511  iii    -



66
=]RE m
PERSONNEL DE D]RECTION
Article 7 noueaU:  Emplol des Directeurs
LAgence a l'obligation d'employer en permanence un Directeur Gdneral, un
Directeur Technique, un Directeur Financier, un Directeur Achat, un Directeur
Construcdon - Op6radion - Transfer, un Directeur Formation at Consultations
Inamationales possddant lrexpEience et les qualifications requises.
Article 8: Nomination et revocation du Directeur GEnEral
La gestion de rAgence et confide I un Directeur GeniaL
Le Directeur GEndral est obligatoirement une personne physique membre de
l'Assemblde Generale de l'Agence. II est ddsign6 par lAssembl6e GEndrale apres
accord de lEta et de rLDA. n assume egalement les fonctions de PrEsident de
l'Agence. Les fonctions de Directeur GEneral et de membre de l'Assemblde
Gendrale sont insEparables.
Le Directeur GEn6ral n'est revoqud que pour manquement grave a ses obligadons et
confonmemnent aux disposiions statutaires.
AEticl12: Pouvoirs du Directeur General
Le Directeur General a tous les pouvoirs pour la gestion de l'Agence confament
aux disposidons des statuts de cele-ci.
nI doit notamment, conformEment au manuel de procEdures:
-     recevoir les projets soumis par les candidats bdnEficiaires;
-     examiner et dvaluer lesdits dossiers afin de verifier qu'& la
fois le candidat b6ndficiaire et le projet presente rEpondent
aux cuiteres d'eligibilitd d6finitifs;
-     sdlectionner les projets;
-     passer les marches et commandes;
-     faire supeviser et contr8ler les travaux;
-     payer les entrprises;
-     procEder a la rEeption des ouvrages.



67
ITTRE lV
LES OBLTGATTONS DES PARTIES
Acticle 10 nouleau : Obliga.ions de I'Administratiod
Compte tenu de l'int6it que lItat porte  ractivitd de lAgenc et des sp6cifit6s du
secteur d'intervention de cette dernire, lEtat s'engage I accorder a rAgence:
rlexoneration de droims et taxes applicables a l'importation sur les
matiriaux, materiels et equipements importes ou acquis au SdnEgal et
n6cessaires au foncdonnement de IAgence;
*     l'admission temporaire, pendant toute la durce du projet, des
vehicules importns ou achetes sur place et affectes exc'usivement I
rAgence;
*     l'exemption d'imp8ts et taxes dus par l'Agence en sa qualite
d'employeur sur les taitements, salaires, indemnitds, emoluments et
avantges versEs au personnel;
*     i'exempdon des droits et taxes relatifs a l'enregistrement pour les
locadons et acquisidons d'immeubles ou de temrains effectuds par
rAgence dans le cadre de son progamme;
*     I'exempdon aux contributions des patentes dans le cadre de
rexercice des activitds de l'Agence.
En out, l'Etat sengage I accorder atAgence l'exoneradon de tous imp8ts directs
et indirects que rAgence pourrait etre amenee.a acquitter sur tous revenus drEs de
ses acdvitL
L'Etat sengage egalement & prendre en charge, sous forme d!exonEraion, les taxes
wr le chiffte d'affaires (TVA) que les diffdrcntes entreprises prestataires sont
ancnees & acquitter, dans le cadre de la rdalisation des projets agrees.



68
Cctte exon*ration donnera lieu I visa direct dElivrd par les services compdtents de
la DGID sur les facttres ddfmimves.
L'Etat s'engage egalement & prendre en charge les droits et taxes sur les mat*riaux,
matriels et equipements impords dans le cadre du projet et devant etre incorpords
dans le patrimoine de IEtat et des colUecdvites b6n6ficiaires du projet.
Cotte exondration sera accort6e cas par cas sur pr6sentation par rAgence des pieces
justificatimes prEvues par la rEglementation.
Ajtil1    : Obligations de l'Agence
LAgence s'engage & veiller a l'execudon des projets et a la rEalisation des objectifs
qu elie sest assignde.
En accord avec le manuel de procEdures, I'Agence r4alise les objectifs du projet
avec toute la diligence et 1'efficacite requises, conformement aux normes
comptables generalement admises, aux usages et vrcc6dures administratives
techniques et iinancieres uniformEment appliquees.
LVAgence doit faire proceder au moins deux fois par an I des audits des comptes du
progrmnme par des experts inddpendants.
LAgence s'engage & fournira rEtat, et/ou & toute autre institution dEsignEe par
JEtWt y compris les bailleurs de fonds du prgramme, des rapports sur la gesdon de
ses activitds, conformement aux disposidons de la section Vm du manudl de
procedures.
L'Agence sengage cgalement & prendre toutes les mesurcs ndcessaires pour
permettre I JEa de respecter ses obligations telles quo ddfinies dans les accords do
financenent concemant l Programme.
Si J'Ewt estime que I'Agence n'est plus en mesure do remplir sa mission ou dEcide
de mettre fin au programme, rAgence a robligadon de remetre & J'Etat la totalitd
des fonds disponibles sur ic compte spcial au moment de la decision.



69
lAgence a egalement lobligadon de remettre la totalite de son materiel a lEtat a
l'achbvement du progrmme ou le jour precddant la dissolution de IAgence
conformment a ses statuts, la premibre & echoir des deux dates dmant retenue.
ArId2l: EntrEe en vigueur
L'Eat et l'Agence agissant chacun par l'intermddiaire de son reprdsentant doment
autorias, ont conclu la prdsente Convention qui entre en vigueur A la date de sa
signature.
Fait I Dakar, le
Pour le Gouvemement,                                 Pour I'Agence,
Ie Ministre de IEconornie, des Fmances
et du Plan



70
3b= 
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMN PROJECT
Annex 3
The Eecutin Agency's Procedures Manual



71                               Annex 3
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Draft Procedures Manual
of the Executing Agency
Section I
General Principles Applicable
to the Executing Asency's Activities
1-1 Obiectives of the Executing Agency (Agency)
The main objectives of the Public Works and Employment Project are to:
(a) create, at least temporarily, substantial new employment in urban
areas as rapidly as possible;
(b) improve, through execution of the works financed by the project,
the individual skills of the workers who will be employed, the corporate
competitiveness of the firms that will carry out works, and the efficiency of
the public institutions that will be involved, so as to develop the economy's
capacity to respond to increased opportunities for sustained employment after
completion of the project;
(c) demonstrate the feasibility of widening the field of application
of labor-intensive projects and test the procedures that would enable the
public sector to commission such projects; and
(d) produce results that are economically and socially useful.
While aiming at these broad goals, the specific objectives of the Agency are
to$
(a) avoid increases in civil service staff;
(b) achieve low costs, visibility of the project implementation
structure, and measurable efficiency of working methods; and
(c) put in place transparent and controllable procedures that are
nonetheless simple, streamlined and flexible, in order to identify and
appraise the operations to be carried out, contracting and payment to firms
involved.
1-2 Working principles
Individually and as a group, the Agency's staff is called upon to
exercise its discretion in accord with the following principles:
(a)  Independences      Only  the  Director  is  authorized  to  give
instructions, whether directly or through channels, to the staff of the



72                               Annex 3
Agency. Relations between the Agency and the Administration are governed by
the existing agreement between the Government and the Agency. No authority
outside the Agency can override the Agency's choices of activities, apart
from decisions expressly referring to the Agency's contracting commitments
under the above-mentioned agreement, or with respect to laws and regulations
under ordinary law applicable to legal persons under private law.
(b) Impartiality: In its relations with third parties, whether dealing
with beneficiaries under Agency programs, suppliers and service agencies, or
any party or institution concerned in any manner with the Agency's activities
or the results of those activities, the Agency will practice no form of
discrimination or preferential treatment and will exclusively use the
decision-making and selection procedures described in this manual.
(c) Cost-effectiveness: Maximum cost-effectiveness, in relation to the
general objectives described under paragraph I-1, should always be sought in
decision-making at all levels and in practical application of the Agency's
procedures.
(d)  Economy:    Subject  to  the  above-mentioned  cost-effectiveness
principle, minimizing cost should be a constant concern of the Agency and
each member of its staff. In particular, no preference can be justified in
the utilization or procurement of resources and equipment, or in resorting to
any service, unless strictly needed for the cost-effectiveness of the
Agency's activities.
I-3 Conflict of interest
Employees of the Agency cannot hold, directly or through an
intermediary, any interest in the firms, or exercise the responsibilities of
the public or private institutions invited to maintain commercial relations
with the Agency or to benefit from the Agency's activities. Employees cannot
accept any remuneration, commission or fee on behalf of such firms or
institutions. Each employee is required, at the time he is hired by the
Agency, to complete a declaration setting forth a list of his commitments,
interests or holdings that may conflict with the above-mentioned rule. Each
employee is allowed a period of one month in which to divest himself of such
commitments, interests or holdings. Compliance with this requirement is an
express condition of permanent employment.
I-4 Obligations of Agency staff members with regard to external
relationships
In carrying out the agreement that it has entered with the Senegalese
Government, the Agency is invested with a public service function.
Accordingly, employees are subject to the requirement to act impartially and
are regulated in a manner similar to that of civ4.l service employees. (See
Section X.)



73                               Annex 3
Section II
Procedure for Beneficiaries' Submission
of Projects to the Agency
11-1 Beneficiaries
The term "beneficiary" means any public institution or authority that
publicly owns capital works that are the subject of Agency action.    Such
institution or authority attains the status of a beneficiary upon the
Agency's acceptance, pursuant to the procedure set out below, of a project
proposed by, and at the initiative of, the institution or authority.  The
rights and obligations attaching to this status are set out in the "terms of
reference of the duties of engineer representative" (convention de maltrise
d'ouvrage d4l4gude)  (cf.  II-8)  for each project.   The statute of the
institution or authority has no bearing on eligibility to attain the status
of beneficiary; on the other hand, the institution's or authority's
capability to maintain the works satisfactorily and to utilize them in a
cost-effective manner after delivery of the works is among the project
appraisal factors (cf. 11-3).
II-2 Information required upon submission of a project
The applicant submits to the Agency an application package including the
following documentation:
II-2-1 On the applicant:
(a) Identification of the applicant, status, areas of competence,
headquarters or address, telephone number, name of person in charge of the
project, name and capacity of the person authorized to sign the terms of
reference of the duties of engineer representative;
(b)  Annual budgets of the institution over the last three fiscal years:
investment, operation; percentage of each of the two sections of this budget
devoted to services involved in the present project; and
(c)  Description  and  distribution  of  the  institution's  financial
resources (for example, direct taxation, billing for services, Government
credits);
11-2-2 On the project:
(a) Name of the project; brief description; site (location drawings);
(b) Objectives and justification for the project;
(c) Summary quantitative and qualitative appraisal of the benefits
expected from the project;
(d) Content of the project: components, description of the works to be
performed, proposed stages;



74                               Annex 3
(e) Stage of completion. of the preliminary technical studies or
schedules; date on which all technical conditions will be fulfilled for
start-up of the works;
(f) Copy of available technical schedules; and
(g) Estimated cost of the project and summary breakdown of this cost
by type -- materials (showing imported materials), labor, equipment, other
expenses -- and, if necessary, by stages.
II-3 Prolect appraisal factors
Projects are evaluated by the Agency on the basis of criteria
corresponding to the following indicators:
(a) Total estimated cost of the project;
(b) Stage of project planning: time required and cost of the activities
and procurement prior to start-up of works;
(c) The percentage of labor costs in the total estimated cost of the
project;
(d) Average length of jobs generated by execution of the project;
(e) Description of equipment that will be involved in the works and a
statement on the availability of the equipment;
(f) Eventual percentage of imported materials in the estimated cost of
the project;
(g) Qualifications required for companies designated to carry out the
works;
(h) Quantifiable economic and social benefits expected as a result of
the works;
(i) Complementarity of the project's objectives in relation to those
of other projects being carried out or under preparation and, particularly,
those projects incluead in the Three-Year Public Investment Program (PTIP);
and
(j) The applicant's financial and technical capacity to maintain the
works after completion.
II-4 Project appraisal methodologies; eligibility criteria
11-4-1. On the basis of the application package furnished by the
applicant, the technical office of the Agency evaluates each of the
indicators listed under paragraph II-3. A committee composed of the Director
of the Agency, the Technical Director, the Financial Director, and, if
necessary, one or more experts invited to participate at the discretion of
the Director, meets on the first and third Tuesdays of each month to review



75                              Annex 3
the project packages placed on the agenda by the technical office. Except in
the event of force majeure, the period of time between submission of a
project and review of the package by the committee should not exceed one
month. The Director chairs the discussions and either accepts or rejects the
projects.
II-4-2. Projects with an estimated cost in excess of CFAF 100 million
are submitted to IDA for approval before they are finally accepted. For this
purpose, the Agency transmits to the Resident Representative of the World
Bank the project package accompanied by the minutes of the committee meeting
(cf. II-4-4, below). If IDA does not respond within one month, the project
is deemed approved. Initial subprojects up to US$7.5 million in total cost
are to be approved by IDA.
II-4-3. To qualify, a project must meet the following conditions:
(a) The project must be included in the category of works described in
Section III;
(b) The p_..oject must be one of demonstrated economic and social
usefulness;
.c) Total cost must be less than the remaining amount of credit
available for each subproject category;
(d) On-site works must begin in less than three months;
re) The cost of activities priur to start-up at the work site must be
less than 10 percent of the total cost of the project;
(f) The percentage of labor costs (including social security taxes)
must ecceed 20 percent of the total estimated project cost;
m (g)  The average length of jobs generated by execution of the project
must be greater than two weeks;
(h) There must be at least two classified companies (cf. Section IIIj
having the required qualification for the geographic area where the project
is carried out;
(i) It must be possible to transport, without additional costs, the
equip.4eut required on the work site, within the time periods provided for
start-up at the site;
(j) There must be no overlapping with another project for which
financing is already assured; an.
(k) The project has not been taken out of the PTIP.
II-4-4.  The work of the committee will be recorded in minutes.  The
reasons for acceptance or rejection of the projects considered will be
expressly set out in the minutes. These reasons must make reference to the



76                               Annex 3
criteria listed under paragraph .II-3 and, insofar as possible, to quantified
indicators of these criteria.
II-5 Relations with the apElicant during appraisal period
The technical office is authorized to request supplementary information
or clarificatioixs from the applicant duriiig the course of the appraisal and
to Issue a deadline for reply, depending on its plan for submission of
projects to the committee.  When the technical office determines that the
application package presented is clearly incomplete,  it may return the
package to the applicant and request that the completed package be
resubmitted to the Agency in the same form as the original package.  The
applicant's failure to respond to requests for additional information within
the prescribed deadline may constitute cause to reject the project.
II-6  Notice of approval or rejection of the project
At the conclusion of each committee meeting, the Director will notify
in writing each of the applicants for the projects reviewed, stating the
decision on the project they submitted and, in the case of a rejection, the
essential reasons behind the decision.
II-7 Appeal by applicant
If an applicaticn is rejected, the applicant may request a copy of the
committee minutes and the appraisal file for the rejected project. In the
event the basis for the decision is contested. the beneficiary must set out
in writing the specific arguments bringing into question the decision. Upon
receipt of this letter, the Director of the Agency may decide to place on the
agenda of the next committee meeting a re-examination of the package.
Nevertheless, he has sole discretion in this matter and if the application is
rejected after a second review by the committee, the decision becomes final.
II-8 Approval of the Terms of Reference
Final approval of a project requires the Beneficiary and the Agency to
enter an agreement, in accordance with the model form attached to this
section. The terms of reference of the duties of the engineer representative
should be signed as soon as possible after the committee meeting at which the
project was approved.  If necessary, additional terms of reference of the
duties of engineer representatives will govern the particular provisions
relating to the Beneficiary's activities in the execution of the project.
These terms of reference of the duties of engineer representative may
especially involve making available the equipment (cf. Annex 2 to this
section), the Beneficiary's execution of certain works to supplement those of
the project, or the Beneficiary's participation in supervision of the works.
The appended agreements should be signed at the same time as the terms of
reference of the duties of engineer representative. They should have been
prepared during project appraisal and added to the package reviewed by the
committee.



77                               Annex 3
Section II, Annex 1
MODEL FOR TERMS OF REFERENCE OF DUTIES OF
ENGINEER REPRESENTATIVE
It is hereby agreed,
BETWEEN:
_ _ _ ___   ,represented by
hereinafter referred to as "Beneficiary";
AND
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project,
represented by its Director,                    , hereinafter referred to as
"Agency';
as follows:
Article 1:   This agreement fixes the conditions  for execution of the
following project (hereinafter referred to as "the Project"):
located at                            (or which concerns the area within the
boundaries shown in the attached drawing). This Project is classified in
category _ _, in accordance with the classification appearing under
section III-1 of the Agency's Procedures Manual.
Article 2: The Beneficiary hereby delegates to the Agency, which accepts,
all prerogatives, rights, and obligations relating to the supervision of the
performance of the works, studies and other services necessary for execution
of the Project. In particular, the Agency undertakes, for this purpose, the
following responsibilities:   selection of engineers and supervision of
preiliminary studies, preparation of notices to bidders or bidding documents,
selection of companies (subject to the provisions of Article 3, below),
signing contracts, supervision and acceptance of the work, and payment to
companies.
Article 3: The Beneficiary may be represented before the awarding committees
for contracts  relating  to  the  Project.    The Agency will  notify  the
Beneficiary of the date and place of the meetings of these committees at
least five work days before the meeting.   However, if the Beneficiary's
representative is absent, the committee is not prevented from holding the
session and making a valid selection.
Article 4: The Beneficiary may attend the final acceptance of the works, the
date of which will be transmitted to him by the Agency at least five work
days before such acceptance.   The Agency's representative shall decide,
however, whether to accept or refuse delivery.



78                               Annex 3
Article 5: The Agency or the engineers engaged by the Agency to carry out
the Project may at any time consult with the Beneficiary or require it to
perform administrative tasks for matters involving execution of the Project.
The Beneficiary shall respond to these inquiries or requests with all due
diligence.
Article 6t The Beneficiary is barred from any activities, other than those
mentioned under articles 3, 4 and 5, above, in execution of the Project, and
particularly, in performance of the works and contacts with companies.
Article 7: The Agency is solely responsible with relation to third parties
involved in execution of the Project. The Agency shall provide, or cause to
be provided, full insurance needed to cover the corresponding risks.
Article 8: ThM agreement shall terminate upon delivery of the work to the
Beneficiary, which is expected to be on (date)       . In the event that this
date is delayed by more than three months, the Agency shall notify the
Beneficiary as soon as possible.   The Beneficiary is required to accept
delivery of the works in the current state of completion. Any guarantees in
effect on the date of delivery of the work shall be transferred to the
Beneficiary.
Article 9:   All costs arising from execution of the Project are the
responsibility of the Ageitcy.
Done at_
on____
For the Beneficiary:                      For the Agency:



79                              Annex 3
Section II, Annex 2
EQUIPMENT AVAILABILITY AGREEMENT
It is hereby agreed,
BETWEEN:
_____________ _  ,represented by
hereinafter referred to as "Beneficiary";
AND
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project,
represented by its Director,                   , hereinafter referred to as
"Agency";
as follows:
Article 1: This agreement completes the terms of reference of the duties of
engineer representative dated                 established by the Beneficiary
and the Agency for execution of the following project (hereinafter referred
to as "the Project"):
Article 2: The Beneficiary shall make available to the Agency for a period
of        , gratis, the following equipment:
The condition of this equipment is set out in the summary attached to
this agreement.
Article 3: Upon completion of the period of availability, a new summary of
the condition of the equipment shall be made. The Agency guarantees return
of the equipment in the condition in which it was made available to it.
Article 4:  The Agency may entrust use of the equipment to the company
responsible for execution of the Project works. It will take the necessary
steps to provide for maintenance of the equipment and to cover all risks
relating to use of the equipment.
Article 5s All expenses arising from use of the equipment (particularly,
labor, fuel and other consumable supplies, maintenance, and materials) are
the responsibility of the Agency.
Article 6:   Extension of the period of availability established under
Article 2 shall be set out in an amendment to this agreement.



so                               Annex 3
Done at
on
For the Beneficiarys                      For the Agencys



81                               Annex 3
Section III
Procedurp for Preselection and
Classification of Companies
III-1 Classification of works:
Works qualifying for inclusion in the project are classified into ten
categories of subprojects:
(1) 'Works' subproJects, for which 60 percent of funds will be
allocated, comprisings
(a) works for drainage of low-lying areas, including underground
water mains, observation platforms, sesspools, channel headers, retaining
walls, etc.;
(b) minor infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation works
(filling in ravines, laying out sidewalks, repair of gutters and small
sanitation works);
(c) works like those under category (b) carried out on a recurring
basis and requiring organization of shift work (filling in potholes);
(d) construction of simple buildings;
(e) repair of buildings; this category is subdivided in accordance
with the specialized labor association involved (coating and painting,
carpentry, electrical work, roofing, finishing, minor masonry work);
(f) demolition of condemned buildings and recovery of materials;
(g) clearing of brush and terracing works (road shoulders,
embankments, gabions) requiring construction based on pre-established plans;
(2)     'Services' subprojects, for which 40 percent of funds will be
allocated, comprising:
(a) specific works for cleaning public property: removal of sand
from roadways, cleaning drainage ditches and gutters; garbage collection,
etc.;
(b) works like those under category (a) carried out on a recurring
basis and requiring organization of shift work; and
(c) planting and park works.
111-2 Classification of companies
III-2-1.    Upon  start-up  of  its  activities,  the Agency  shall be
responsible for providing widespread publicity within Senegal, by means of
the press, radio and television, of its objectives and uiethods of operation
and particularly the conditions under which a company cmn put itself in a



82                               Annex 3
position to be able to carry out works on behalf of the Agency (cf. II-2-2,
above).
III-2-2.   A company may :at any time request to be included in the
registry of companies that are eligible to execute works falling under one or
more of the categories set out in III-1.   For this purpose, the company
should furnish an application package including:
-  the company's business name, its status, corporate headquarters,
commerce registration number, amount of capital stock and the name and
address of the person authorized to represent the company;
-  a declaration from the bank stating the conditions under which the
company may benefit from a guarantee;
-  a statement certifying that the directors of the firm are not under
order to refrain from business activities;
-  the boundaries  (in the form of a list of departments)  of the
geographic area in which the company is. willing to operate;
-  a list of references relating to the categories of works for which
the company is requesting classification as a qualifying company; each
reference shall be accompanied by the following information:
Brief description of the works and main contractor works by the
company;
Contracting party and owner of the works;
Amount and type of the contract;
Duration of works after the initial service order;
Status of works (undergoing construction, completed,
provisionally accepzed, finally accepted);
Project works completion date, predicted or certified;
Status of contract, (paid off or not); and
-  list of equipment owned outright by the company, or leased or lent
to the company.
III-3 Review of classification requests
The Agency aiy decide on its own whether to accept or reject a company's
application to participate.   The Agency shall notify the company of its
decision and, if necessary, the reasons for rejection, within a period of one
month counting from receipt of the request. A company that has been rejected
cannot file a new request for the same category prior to six months after the
rejection.



83                              Annex 3
111-4 Reclassification and disqualification
Upon completion or during the course of the company's execution of the
works entrusted to it by the Agency, the Agency may proceed to review the
classification of the company to expand or reduce the list of categories of
works for which the company is qualified. Notification of the result of such
review shall be carried out in the same manner as those applicable to the
initial classification and has the same consequences.
III-5 Rights of the classified companies
Any company that, as of the beginning of the bidding process, was
regularly included in the register of companies qualified for the category of
works involved in the bidding, and for the geographical area that includes
the place where the works are to be carried out, will be invited through the
press to obtain the bidding package, either at the Agency's headquarters or
at the office of the Agency's local representative assigned for this purpose.
The company may waive the right to present a bid and this will not bring into
question its classification nor the rights attaching thereto.



84                               Annex 3
Section IV
Procedure for Awarding Contracts
for Goods and Services
Subsection IV-1
Normal Procedure
Contracts in Amounts Less Than CFAF 100 million
IV-l-l   Bidding by companies
Bidding documents
The Agency, with technical assiste.ice provided by the engineer (cf.
Section V), is resporsible for preparing the bidding documents, which include
the following:
(1)    A draft contract following a model (cf. Section IV, Annex 1),
which specifically states the description, organization and location of the
works to be carried out, the expected duration of the works, the estimated
amount of the contract, and the schedule of payments;
(2)     The price list, which is a contract document of the highest
importance, in which there appears a precise description of the services and
limitations involved in each of the tasks, for which there is an individual
price, with reference to a unit of measurement (square meters, cubic meters,
etc.);
(3)     The approximate breakdown of the works, accompanied by a survey,
a work plan, site plens or possible typical plans; the approximate amount
shown in the draft contract will be the result of multiplying the unit prices
by the quantities; and
(4)     The notice to bidders, which includes, particularly:
(a) The list of factors that the contract awarding committee will
take into consideration to make its decision at the time the bids are
examined;
(b) The deadline for filing submissions, receipt of which will be
acknowledged at the Agency's headquarters or at the office of its local
representative; and
(c) The date the awarding committee will meet.
Items (1), (2), and (3) are intended to become, after any amendments,
the contract documents for the procurement; item (2) (the price list) is a
priority document, and this is stated in the contract.



85                               Annex 3
Submission of bids
Submissions shall be in the form of a letter signed by the authorized
reprenentative of the company and accompanied by three contract documents
(draft contract, price list, approximate breakdown of works), any subsequent
amendments being duly initialed; the submissions are to be filed in a sealed
envelope at Agency headquarters or with the Agency's local representative,
within pre-established deadlines.
Submissions must state:
-  the amount of the company's proposed discount on the estimated
reference price for all the works;
-  any proposal to modify the unit prices set out in the price list;
-  any proposal to modify the duration or planning of the works and/or
of the schedule of payments;
-  a description of any changes proposed in relation to the organization
and planning of the works, as a function of the working quantities in the
approximate breakdown; and
-   the bids submitted will be opened in public session, and the bidders
or their representatives may be present.
Any contract provision or other documents included in the bidding
documents that the company is not proposing to modify in the submission shall
be deemed approved by the company.
IV-1-2 Awarding the contracts
Awarding committee
The awarding committee, which is presided over by the Director of the
Agency or his representative, meets at the Agency's headquarters or at any
other site designated by the Director in advance and in writing.   The
committee is composed of the Chairman, the Technical Director of the Agency
or his representative, the Administrative and Financial Director of the
Agency, and a representative of the beneficiary of the works.   Committee
decisions are made by vote of the absolute majority. The covwittee may be
assisted by a designated representative of the engineer to be responsible for
supervision of the works, and also by a representative of the beneficiary.
These representatives do not have the power to vote.
Committee authorities
The committee shall select the bid that it determines to be the best.
However, if the committee's selection is not the lowest bid, the committee
shall base its selection on the criteria listed in the bidding documents.
The reasons for its decision shall be set forth in the minutes of the
meeting. Once the committee has made its decision, the Agency shall notify
all the other bidders of the rejection of their bids. The Agency will amend



86                              Annex 3
the contract and attached documentation proposed in the bidding documents to
reflect the provisions of the winning bid, without entering into any other
form of negotiation with the winning firm.  The contract shall be signed
imnediately by the two parties.
In the event that no bid is considered to be satisfactory, the committee
may declare the bidding procedure to have failed and proceed to direct
negotiation with a company of its choice among the companies that had been
contacted, whether the company had filed a bid or not.
In the specific cases in which there are fewer than three bidders, and
for any procurement the estimated cost of which is CFAF 100 million or more,
the committee will submit its decision to IDA for approval before notifying
the winning firm of its decision.



87                              Annex 3
Subsection IV-2
Procedure for International Bidding
Contracts in Amounts Equal to or Exceeding US$500,000
Contracts in amounts estimated to be over US$500,000 are processed under
the procedure for international bidding, following the provisions of the
"Guidelines for Contracts Financed by World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,"
published by the World Bank and the International Development Association in
May 1985.
Subsection IV-3
Procedure for Employment of Consultanto,
and Contracts for Engineering and Prolect Superv'sion
IV-3-1.  The procedure for procuring services of consultants is the one
set out in the 'Guidelines for Use of Consultants, published by tne World
Bank and the International Development Association in August 1981.
IV-3-2. The procedure for procuring engineering and project supervision
services is set out in Section V-4, below.



88                              Annex 3
Section IV, Annex I
Model Works Contract
Contract No.                        awarded following the request for
proposals of                 , 1989, concerning the Subproject designated as:
Signed on: _
Recorded on:
It is hereby agreed,
BETWEEN:
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project,
hereinafter referred to as the 'Agency," represented by its Director,
. as one party,
AND:
______________________    _, represented by        , acting
in the capacity of _____ in t.ie name of and on behalf of said
company and hereinafter referred to as the 'Entrepreneur," as the other
party, as follows:
I
Article 1: PURPOSE OF THE CONTRACT
This contract is for execution of works of
broken down into           separate tasks, each having an individual price
calculated on the basis of one unit of the corresponding quantity, in
accordance with the price list attached hereto.
Article 2: LOCATION OF WORKS
The works described under article 1 shall be performed in the town(s) of:
located  in:
Article 3: AMOUNT OF CONTRACT
The amount of the contract, exclusive of taxes, as stated in the
approximate breakdown, is the sum of: CFAF                             on the
basis of prices as of                , 1989.
The prices given in the Price list have been evaluated taking into
account the cost prices of labor, including social security taxes, total,
cost, including taxes, of the supplies delivered to the work site, the sales
cost of work site equipment, including provisions for depreciation, as well



89                               Annex 3
as work site installation expenses, overhead and miscellaneous costs of the
works, operating burdens, hazards and benefits.
The total amount of the contract, including taxes, is
Article 4: ORGANIZATION AND DURATION OF THE WORKS
The works shall be performed in accordance with the breakdown into
tasks described under article 1.
For each of these tasks, performance shall be entrusted to a set number
of teams composed of laborers and workers of various skills.
The composition and number of teams needed, depending on the amount of
work and the projected output, are shown in the annexes to this document
(organization chart).
(The bidder is invited to inspect the chart, modify it if necessary and
complete it in order to furnish a specific detailed organization plan for the
works.)
While being based on an average number of                 days worked per
month, this contract shall be concluded within a completion period of
months, counting from the date of the service order fixing the beginning date
of the works in question.
The expected date of completion of the works is                   , 1989,
or any other date mutually agreed upon by the Agency and the Entrepreneur.
Article 5: PENALTIES FOR LATE DELIVERY
In the event of a delay in execution of the works in relation to the
time periods fixed in the service order, the Entrepreneur is subject to a
penalty of one one-thousandth of the amount of the works ordered per day of
delay, except in the case of force ma3eure, in which case the Agency will
evaluate the additional time to be allowed an-i so inform the company.
Article 6: SETTLEMENT AND SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS
Monthly invoices shall be prepared on the basis of progress of the
works. The invoices will clearly state the amount of the works done during
the month in question, as well as the cumulative amount of the works done as
of the last day of that month.
These amounts of work are calculated with reference to the prices in the
price list, by multiplying these prices by the quantities actually executed,
after inspection by the engineer assigned by the Agency.
The payments shall be made in Dakar under the responsibility of the
financial office of the Agency, upon presentation of the invoices prepared by
the technical office and accompanied by works progress statements, certified
by the engineer.



90'                              Annex 3
The time of payment shall not exceed thirty (30) days counting from the
approval of the Entrepreneur's monthly invoice by officials of the technical
office of the Agency.
Article 7: UPDATING AND REVISION
The contract does not provide for updating or revision of prices, in
view of the time periods given for completion of the works.
Article 8: MOBILIZATION ADVANCE UPON START-UP OF THE WORKS
A fully bonded mobilization advance not exceeding 20 percent of the
amount of the contract will be granted to the Entrepreneur, at the time of
issuance of the service order.
Article 9: LIABILITY OF TeE ENTREPRENEUR
The Entrepreneur is directly and personally liable to the Agency, for
proper execution and quality of the works.   The Entrepreneur agrees to
furnish to the engineer assigned by the Agency all information, schedules,
calculations and all supporting documentation that may be requested of it.
Article 10: CONTROL OF THE WORKS
The works are placed under the control of the engineer assigned by the
Agency. The Entrepreneur must defer to all written or verbal orders from the
engineer, and the Entrepreneur is responsible for stating any reservations
within a period of ten (10) working days.
Article 11: LABOR -- HEALTH
The Entrepreneur is subject, in the employment of labor, to regulations
under current law at the time the works are performed and, in particular, the
Federal collective bargaining agreement for Construction and Public Works
companies dated July 6, 1956 and the annexes thereto.
Article 12: DISPUTES AND LITIGATION
If, over the course of the works. problems arise between the
representatives of the engineer assigned by the Agency and the Entrepreneur,
the problem shall be referred to the representative of the engineer who will
then issue his decision.
If the Entrepreneur does not accept this decision, each of the parties,
that is, the Agency on one hand and the Entrepreneur on the other, agrees to
seek the opinion of an arbitrator; in the event of disagreement between the
two arbitrators, they shall name a third arbitrator who shall issue the final
decision, in accordance with current regulations in Senegal.



91                              Annex 3
Article 13: CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
The four documents listed below, which the Entrepreneur has full
knowledge of, contain all the conditions and terms of this contracts
-  The present draft contract;
-  The price list;
-  The approximate breakdown; and
-  Bidding documents.
Article 14:  The present contract shall take effect when signed by both
parties.
Approved:                                Dakar,          , 1989
The Entrepreneur                         The Director of the Agency



92                              Annex 3
Section IV, Annex 2
Letter of Submission of Bid
Request for proposals of             , 1989, concerning the Project:
I, the undersigned                                , acting in my capacity as
_   in   the   name   of   and   on   behalf   of
, hereinafter referred to as the "Entrepreneur," listed
on the commerce registry of                     under number
domiciled  at  the  following  address,  _
telephone                            , and whosa tax identification number is
After having read the bidding documents relating to the above-mentioned
works, and in particular the following four documents:
-  Draft contract;
-  Price list;
-  Approximate breakdown; and
-  Bidding documents.
Having evaluated the nature and difficulties of the company from my
point of view and under my responsibility;
Accept, without restrictions, all the provisions in the Bidding
Documents;
Submit a price list bearing my signature and completed by me following
the model that was sent to me;
Agree, as the Entrepreneur, to carry out the works named below,
following the provisions of the price list; and
Submit a draft contract bearing my signature, including my proposals for
changes in the provisions of this contract.
The Executing Agency shall pay the amounts due from it and set forth in
the detailed work statements, by crediting the bank account opened in the
name of:                              , number                       , at the
branch of the                      bank.
Done in one original copy
at Dakar,               , 1989
The Entrepreneur



93                               Annex 3
Section V
Procedures for Monitoring and Supervision of Works
V-1 Advance payments
All contracts with a duration exceeding four monthsa normally include
disbursement to the company of a mobilization advance upon start-up of the
works.   The mobilization advance, which is full)  backed by a bond,  is
governed by the following rules:
(a)     The mobilization advance should allow the company to purchase
materials and to mobilize the necessary equipment for start-up of the works;
the amount of the advance payment is fixed in each contract in the form of a
percentage of the total amount of the contract, which is determined on a case
by case basis depending on the nature of the works and the amount of
materials and equipment put into the work.
(b)     The mobilization advance shall be paid following the signing and
recording of the contract upon certification by the technical office of the
Agency and the engineer responsible for supervision of the works.          Other
than in the event of an exception, the mobilization advance is not paid for
contracts the expected duration of which is less than four months or that
correspond to work categories that do not give rise to the acquisition of
materials or leasing of equipment.
V-2 Works progress cards and relationship to contract accounting
Based on the work statements issued each month by the companies and
reviewed by the engineers, the technical office shall maintain for each
contract a works progress card following the model attached to this section.
The works progress cards provide the information to be included in the
summary statements furnished every other month by the Agency under the
framework of its activity reports (cf. Section VIII).  Each time when the
card is updated, one copy of the works progress card is transmitted to the
financial office, which compares it with the contract card (cf. Section VI)
on which the disbursements made on the contract in questior. are recorded.
V-3 Supervision of the works
Taking into account the limited staff of the Agency's technical office,
direct control of the works by the Agency is not the usual procedure. The
normal procedure consists of contracting with an engineer or a provider of
services outside the Agency to perform all the tasks relating to supervision
of the companies and control of the works.   A model contract for work
supervision is attached to this section. The engineer assigned by the Agency
is responsible, in particular, for the following functions:
(a)       Before awarding the contract:
(i)   Preparation of the documentation of a technical rnature in the
bidding documents in cooperation with the Agency's technical office; and



94                              Annex 3
(il)       attending the meeting of the contract awarding committee
as an observer.
(b)       During the course of the workst
(i)   Constant oversight of the works through an intermediary who
oversees the works and is the engineex's permanent representative at the work
site;
(ii) Weekly visits to the work site with the company's
representative for tLe purpose of identifying any problems that may arise, to
inspect the quality of the works under way and to give all necessary
instructions to ensure efficiency in carrying out the works; a brief report
shall be written on each weekly visit and shall be filed in a works
monitoring folder;
(iii) Control and certification of the work statements; and
(iv) The role of permanent liaison between the companies and the
owner for any questions involving execution of the works.
(c)       After completion of works:
Technical assistance of the owner for provisional acceptance and
final acceptance of the works.
V-4 Selection of the engineers
The Agency maintains an index file of engineers, which includes the
following data on each engineer:
- Identification (company name, address, telephone number) of the
organization in question;
- Name of the responsible official;
- List of the work categories (cf. Section III-1) for which the
organization in question can provide supervision of the works;
- Description of the geographical area in which the organization will
agree to operate; and
-  Inventory and summary evaluation of the services already performed
on behalf of the Agency.
The procedure to apply for inclusion in this index file and the methods
for the Agency's review of the applications are similar to those that are
applicatle to the classification of companies (cf. Sections III-2, III-3 and
III-4).
Depending on the nature and location of the works, the Agency selects
from its index file the engineer that seems most qualified and mutually



95                               Annex 3
negotiates with the engineer a contract for services, using tne model
contract attached to this section.
V-5 Supervision of engineers
One of the essential functions of the technical office of the Agency is
to supervise the engineers who are responsible on the Agency's behalf for
control of the works. For this purpose, the technical office undertakes a
number of unannounced visits to the work sites at whizh they call upon the
engineer in question.   The purpose of these visits is to verify proper
performance of the engineer's contractual obligations. The evaluation of his
services should therefore refer solely to the works supervision contract
which includes, in particular, the generally applicable obligation placed
upon the engineer to respect the rules of the trade.
V-6 Direct control of the works by the Agency
On an exception basis, the Agency may choose to act as its own engineer.
The decision to do so shall be made by the Director of the Agency when the
following conditions apply:
(a)       No engineer is available for the project in question in tli
engineer index file and the project cannot be deferred;
(b)       The project is simple enough to be effectively supervised by
the small staff of the technical office; and
(c)       The  project's  location  does  not  impose  on  the  staff
responsible for supervision any travel that is not compatible with proper
execution of their normal duties.
V-7 Provisional acceptance and final acceptance
V-7-1. The company shall notify the engineer and the technical office
of the Agency of the date on which the work will be completed. The engineer
then calls upon the company for the acceptance operations that should take
place as soon as possible.
Verifications involve:
- Verification of completion or partial failure to complete the
works; and
- Verification of any defects or faults.
V-7-2. The engineer prepares a summary report that he signs together
with the company.  (If the company refuses to sign, such refusal shall be
stated in the summary report.)   After reviewing the summary report, the
Agency's representative shall decide either to declare that the works are
accepted or that the works are accepted with reservations, and shall notify
the company of his decision while enjoining the company to execute or
complete the omitted or incomplete works and to remedy any defects and faults
that were found, within a fixed period of time. After such period of time



96                              Annex 3
has elapsed, the Agency has the right to have the works mentioned in the
summary report of provisional acceptance carried out by a firm of its choice
at the expense and risk of the company that entered the contract.
V-7-3. The remainder of the amounts owed to the company shall normally
be paid upon provisional acceptance without any withholding due to the
omitted or incomplete works or the defects and faults encountered. In the
event of serious faults or failures, the Agency may refuse to declare the
provisional acceptance and may issue a service order to the company to
demolish the defective works or those that do not conform to the contract
specifications and to re-do the works.
V-7-4. The period of the guarantee set out in the contract begins to
run from the date of provisional acceptance of the works. During this period
of time, the company is formally placed on notice by the Agency to execute
the work that the guarantee requires it to perform. In the event of refusal
or noncompliance, the Agency has the right to perform the work on its own
initiative and to take out o. the company's bond (if any) the amounts needed
to pay for the expenditures committed.
V-7-5. Final acceptance shall be declared at the end of the guarantee
period by  means of a minute sent to the company.  The Agency shall then
issue a release of the bond subject to execution of the works required of the
company under the guarantee.



97                              Annex 3
Section V, Annex 1
Model Works Supervision Contract
Contract No.                    entered following mutual agreement and
involving the supervision of the following projects
Signed on:
Recorded on: _
It is hereby agreed,
BETWEEN:
The Ezecuting Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project,
hereinafter referred to as the "Agency," represented by its Director,
i______== _____  ,as one party,
AND:
, hereinafter referred to as the
'Engineer,' represented by __, as the other party,
as follows:
Article 1: PURPOSE OF THE CONTRACT
This contract is for execution of the services of works supervision,
including the technical studies and control of the works to be carried out in
relation to the project :
Article 2: LOCATION OF THE SUBPROJECT
The works described under article 1 shall be performed in the town(s)
of:
located int
Article 3: DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION FURNISHED BY THE AGENCY
The Agency, acting as owner representative, shall furnish to the
engineer the following documents and infirmation:
-  The layout plan of the site(s) with contour lines, showing location
of existing buildings to be rehabilitated and neighboring buildings;



98                               Annex 3
- Drawings of the existing roads, access routes, locations and
characteristics of the existing utility systems (water, gas, electricity,
sewers and possible connecting points);
-  Geological and geotechnicEi characteristics of the sub-soil, as well
as the results of possible test borings carried out at certain sites, if
necessary; and
- All indications on the legal status of the land property with regard
to property easements or town planning and government taxes or liens, the
Agency as owner representative being the sole interpreter of its land rights.
Article 4:  PRINCIPLE FOR ENGINEER'S INTERVENtION
The engineer is directly responsible, in consultation with the Agency's
technical office, for preparation of the Agency's technical specifications
for the subproject named under article 1. In particular, he is responsible
for preparation of the following bidding documents for the works contract:
-  Price list   -'d
-  ApproxirA   -akdown and annexes, such as surveys, plans, sample
drawings, etc.
The engineer assists the Agencv in selection of the bids presented by
the companies.
The engineer is responsible fc. Ireparation of the work site, after the
works contract has been awarded and implements all the procedures and
documents relating to monitoring of the works, while remaining in touch with
the technical office of the Agency.
The engineer is responsible for control of proper execution of the works
and, in this regard, verifies:
- the quantities expected;
- the quality required under the technical specifications; and
- the periods of time set for carrying out the works.
The engi:eer is the Agency's advisor in the defense of its interests,
particularly    the event of possible disputes.
The engineer shall perform his mission following the rules of his trade,
while furnishing the services necessitated by the nature and size of the
project, under the framework of the chart of services appearing in an annex
to this contract. Moreover, he shall act in accordance with the instructions
given to him by the Agency concerning the work schedule, time frames, order
of priority of the works and modes of execution.



99                              Annex 3
Article 5t CONDITIONS FOR EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT SUPERVISION CONTRACT
All the documents and files furnished as set forth b.low, must follow
tho rules in effect concerning Construction and Public Works in Senegal.
A. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
The engineer shall establish, in cooperation with the Agency'I technical
office, the techn3^al specifications, which shall include all the
documentation necessary to carry out bidding limited to the enterprises that
were prequalified by the Agency:
- Draft contract for the works;
- Bidding documents;
- Price list;
- Approximate breakdown and annexel documents, such as surveys, plans,
sample drawings, Ltc.; and
- Site plans reviewed and completed on the basis of those sent by the
Agency.
B.   COORDINATION AND CONTROL DOCUMENTS
The engineer shall prepare, in cooperation with the technical office of
the Agency as he deems necessary, all the documents for preparation,
monitoring and inspection of the execution of the company's work:
- Work schedule;
- Plans for the work site;
- Preparation of the monthly work statements;
- Tests and laboratory reports on the materials used in the work;
- Reports on quality control of necessary supplies and equipment;
- Inventory and materials management reports;
- Reports on control of the employment of materials;
-  Summaries of work site visits;
-  Summaries of working meetings between the company and the Agency;
- Technical documents on any amendments or variations proposed by the
Agency; and
- Summary of the provisional and final acceptance of the works.



100                              Annex 3
Article 6: ENGINEER'S REMUNERATION
The engineer's remuneration is fixed as followst
(a)       for preparatory tasks, a maximum of 5 percent of the estimated
cost of the subproject; and
(b)       for coordination and control tasks, a maximum of 5 percent of
the amount of the works contract.
Article 7: UPDATING AND REVISION OF PRICES
The prices in the present work supervision contract are fixed and cannot
be revised.
Article 8: SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS
Settlement of the amounts due under the heading of fees for the
engineer"s work shall be scheduled in the following manner:
For preparatory work:
A. Signing contract for engineering work............... 20?
B. Completion of technical specifications for bids ...... 80S
For coordination and control works
A. Monthly progress of the works ................ ...#802
B. Acceptance of final delivery report,
or bank security of same amount............. .......... 20X
Article 9: LIABILITY OF ENGINEER
The engineer is directly and personally liable to the Agency for the
design of the subproiect works.
Article 10: MONITOxcINE, SERVICES
Services are placed under the control of the Technical Director of the
Agency, who reports in turn to the Director of the Agency. The engineer must
defer to all the written or verbal orders of the technical office of the
Agency and must submit any reservations in writing within a period of ten
(10) days, beyond which period no reservations will be accepted.
Article 11: CHANGES IN THE PLANS
In the event that the Agency chooses to make basic changes in its plans
during any stage of execution, provision shall be made for the engineer to
receive additional fees depending on the additional services needed to
implement these changes. Any amendment to this contract is then drafted to
fix, in such an event, the conditions and additional remuneration applicable
to the engineer.



101                              Annex 3
Article 12s  DISPUTES AND LITIGATION
If, over the course of the works, problems arise between the
representatives of the Agency and the engineer, the problem shall be referred
to the Director of the Agency, who will then issue his decision in writing.
If the engineer does not accept this decision, each of the parties, that
is, the Agency on one hand and the engineer on the other, agree to seek the
opinion of an arbitrator; in the event of disagreement between the two
arbitrators, they shall name a third arbitrator who shall issue the final
decision, in accordance with current regulations in Senegal.
Article 13: LABOR LAWS
Labor regulations and social legislation in effect in Senegal are
applicable to the engineer who shall agree to respect all laws or new
regulations made mandatory as they may appear in the official journal of
Senegal.
No compensation can be paid for limitations and difficulties arising
from decisions by administrative authorities concerning employment of labor
in Senegal.
Article 14s INSURANCE
The engineer shall submit evidence that he has taken out an insurance
policy with a company approved by the Agency.   The policy must cover the
risks and professional liabilities relating to performance of his services.
APPROVED                                        Dakar,                199, 1
ENGINEER                                  DIRECTOR OF THE AGENCY



102                              Annex 3
Section VI
Accounting System for Contracts, Disbursements
VI-i Commitments:
The contract constitutes the basic document for accounting of
comsiitments and disbursements. Following the signing of the contract, tte
financial office establishes a contract card and records a commitment equal
to the amount of that contract.   The date and amount of each payment is
recorded as they are made on the contract card; at any time the undisbursed
portion of the amount committed is the difference between the initial
commitment and the sum of the payments already made.
VI-2 Submission of invcices
Unless otherwise provided in the contract, invoices shall be submitted
on a monthly basis by the company.   Each submission shall be mandatorily
supported by a works statement certified by the engineer.   The invoice
specifies the amount, not including taxes, of the works done, the amount of
any withholding for the mobilization advance, the amount of applicable taxes,
and the total to be paid, and shall reference where they appear in the
supporting works statements. The invoices shall be dated and signed by the
person authorized to represent t-ie company.
VI-3 Control of invoices
The technical office shall verify the invoice and annexed works
statements, certify the service performed, and then transmit the file to the
financial office for payment. The financial office audits the accounting of
the invoice with the amount remaining from the commitment and not yet
disbursed, which is shown on the contract card, and orders the payment.
Except in the event of duly proven force maleure, the total period of time
between receipt of the invoice in the technical office and the issuance of
the check to the company (or transmittal of the payment order to the bank)
must not exceed ten working days.  Compliance with this rule constitutes one
of the evaluation factors for performance of the Agency staff concerned, as
well as the performance of the Agency itself.
VI-4 Ordering disbursements
Ordering a payment includes the following operations:
-  Preparation of the checks or payment orders for the net amount to be
paid to the company exclusive of taxes;
-  Entry of the payment on the contract card; and
-  Accounting for taxes to be paid to the treasury on the account of the
company.



103                              Annex 3
VI-5 Sinning checks and payment orders
The checks and payment orders are signed by the Financial Director and
countersigned by the Director of the Agency.  Either one may delegate in
writing the authority to sign in their absence or in the event they are
indisposed. A photocopy of the signed check or payment order, and, if the
signature authority has been delegated, a reference to the delegation, shall
be attached to the invoice before the invoice is filed with the supporting
accounting documents maintained by the Agency for the uses of the accounts
auditor.
VI-6 Termination of the contract
The termination of the contract shall not be completed until after final
acceptance of the works and release of any bond. At the time of close-out,
the remainder of the undisbursed commitment is voided.



104                              Annex 3
Section VII
Management of Agency's funds
p        VII-1  Principle of revolving fund
Quick payment to suppliers is one of the reasons for the creation of the
Agency.  To permit the Agency to carry out the account payment transactions
without delay, the Agency has an account in a commercial bank of Senegal,
which operates on the joint signature of the Director of the Agency and the
Financial Director.  This account is supplied with funds at the outset by an
advance payment that the Government requests from the donor(s) financing the
Public Works and Employment Project.  This advance payment is calculated in
such manner as to cover approximately three months of Agency disbursements,
of which one month serves as a security reserve. As soon as the cumulative
amount of disbursements effected reaches or surpasses one third of the amount
of the initial advance payment (on average, for all months), the Agency shall
present to the donor(s), through the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, a
request for replenishment of the amount disbursed, supported by a detailed
statement of the disbursements effected, certified by the Director of the
Agency (certified expenditure statement).   The supporting documents are
retained by the Agency and pe-manently kept at the disposal of the account
auditors, the representatives of the donors and the Ministry of the Economy
and Finance. When the cumulative amount of the initial advance payment and
replenishments already effected reaches or surpasses 50 percent of the total
amount of the credits entered in the credit agreements for the categories of
expenditures in which the disbursement is provided following the revolving
fund procedure, withholdings are made on the requests for replenishment up to
a percentage of the reouest equal to the ratio of the non-reimbursed portion
of the advance over the undisbursed portion of the credits.
VII-2 Certified expenditure statements
The certified expenditure statements include a detailed listing of basic
disbursements made, and for each one there is a specific reference to the
supporting documentation (including the classification number) retained by
the Agency.   The certified expenditure statements are prepared under the
responsibility of the Financial Director.   They must be certified by the
Agency Director.
VII-3 Classification of supporting documentation
The supporting documentation for each disbursement (invoice and attached
works statement, copy of the signed check or payment order, and copy of the
signature delegations, if any) are classified following a chronological
numbering system. A computerized file of supporting documents is constantly
updated.   It should allow selection of the documents according to the
following criteria (crossed or not):
I.      w 1_  ._



105                              Annex 3
- Works category (cf. Section III-l);
- Name of project;
- Name of company;
- Date or time period; and
- Number of the replenishment request.
VII-4 Replenishment procedures
VII-4-l. Replenishment requests are routed through the Finance Ministry
to the donor(s) over the signature of the Director of the Agency, acting
under a delegation from the Minister of Finance. The requests addressed to
IDA shall be filed with the Resident Representative of the World Bank in
Dakar.   The date of transmittal  is recorded by the Agency with the
identification number of the request and the date of the request.   The
Minister of Finance, Public Debt and Investment Department (DDI) receives a
copy of each disbursement request.
VII-4-2. For each replenishment request, the Resident Representative
of the World Bank shall notify the Agency of the date of transmittal to
headquarters. After a period of '5 working days, if the replenishment has
not been made, the Agency shall send a telex as a second request to the
donors especially in order to obtain information or the payment data. Upon
receipt of this information, the Agency shall aler.t the bank to which the
funds are addressed so that it may proceed, if necessary, to make the
necessary inquiries.
VII-4-3 (Possible provisions for other donors)
VII-4-4  It is the Agency's responsibility to set out specifically, in
consultation with the bank at which its account will be opened, the
specifications of the practical modalities for maintaining the account and to
assure compliance with the specifications.



106                              Annex 3
Section VIII
Activity Reports
VIII-1 Reporting periods
Before the end of the second complete week of each uneven month, the
Agency shall file with the Government an activity report for the period of
the prior two months.   This report is prepared following a model format
attached to this section. Using a standardized summary format, it provides
information on:
(a)       execution of the procedure for selection of projects;
(b)       awarding of works contracts;
(c)       signing of contracts and disbursements by works categories;
*d)       personnel employed by the companies;
(e)       execution of contracts for services;
(f)       technical assistance services rendered to the companies; and
(g)       performance level in execution of the works.
Each activity report shall be signed by the Director of the Agency, who
is responsible for the accuracy of the information contained in the report.
JIII-2 Information to be furnished by the technical office
The tables comprising section 5 of the activity report under items (a),
(d), (f) and (g) shall be prepared under the responsibility of the Technical
Director, who approves them before they are incorporated into the report.
These tables rely particularly on the data shown on the daily work cards, the
weekly work suimmaries, ard the monthly work progress cards. All of these
various documents are the responsibility of the engineer as well as the
employee of the technical office responsible for the project in question.
The Technical Director shall transmit to the Agency Director succinct
remarks on each table, on the basis of which the section of the activity
report provided for "Director's remarks and observations' is prepared.
VIII-3 Information to be furnished by the financial office
The tables comprising section 5 of the activity report that are not
prepared under the responsibility of the Technical Director are under the
responsibility of the Financial Director (items (b),  (c) and (e)).   The
Financial Director shall approve them before they are incorporated into the
activity report.



107                              Annex 3
Section 3 of the activity report, which depicts the status of the
Agency's revolving fund, is prepared under the responsibility of the
Financial Director.
The Financial Director contributes to the  "Director's remarks and
observations" with  regard to the Agency's  performance  in the area of
administration.
VIII-4 Exceptional information
It is the responsibility of the Agency Director to personally inspect
the quality of the evaluation reports and to take initiatives necessary for
the Government's to be aware of any information that clarifies, for the
Government, the cost-effectiveness of the apparatus implemented, with
relation to the objectives set forth in section 1.
Even though the activity report is standardized, it should be adjusted,
if changes are of such nature as to render a better accounting of the
Agency's actual performance. The standard format for the report, which is
attached to this section, should be considered to be a description of the
minimum amount of information to be furnished and not as an inviolable
framework.
VIII-5 Time schedule for preparation and submission of each report
The preparation of activity reports is a constant function: the various
basic data produced, whether by the accounting system or by the technical
monitoring of the works, constitute a data base, the computerized processing
of which allows editing of the tables in section 5 of the activity report at
any time for any period of time passed. Control and gathering of basic data
is organized on a daily basis and should be capable of being carried out
without delay as the information is transmitted by the engineers and the
companies.
Within three working days following termination of a two-month period
for which the activity report is due, the computer office ensures that no lag
is occurring in the capture of data relating to the period in question and
proceeds to print the tables in section 5 of the report, which it transmits,
depending on the circumstances, to the Technical Director or to the Financial
Director for review and approval.
Before the end of the first full week of the month following the period
cnvered by the report, the secretariat of the Agency Director receives the
approved documents that have been prepared by the technical office and the
financial office. The complete report, ready to be signed, should be on the
Director's desk ten vorking days before the date for submission of the report
to the Government.



108                              Annex 3
Annex to Section VIII
Fornmat for Activity Reports
ACTIVITY REPORT
OF THE EXECUTING AGENCY
1.  Period covered by the veport:
2. Date of most recent report:
3. Status of Agency's account as of the date of the report:
-  Account balance:                   ; balance date:                 ;
-  Amount of undisbursed authorizations:
-  Amount of replenishment requests not yet received:
-  List of replenishment requests not yet received:
Request No.         Amount          Date of Transmittal      Donor
4. Director's Remarks and Observations:
Evaluation of results obtained in relation to general project goals;
Agency performance;
Performance of companies;
Relations with beneficiaries;
Program of assistance to companies and training;
Special problems.
5. Tables:



109                              Annex 3
Section IX
Oversight of the Agency
IX-1 Review of accounts and audit of administration
The Agency's accounts are examined twice yearly by the auditors in
accordance with the principles appearing in the "Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank," dated
March 1982.
The account auditors pay very careful attention, as stated in their
terms cf reference, to verification of the existence, regularity and
appropriate classification of the supporting documentation of expenditures
appearing in the certified expenditure statements furnished in support of
requests for replenishment of the Agency's account.
The Agency is also subject to a semi-annual audit of management.
Following principles similar to those used for the review of accounts, the
evaluators verify and certify the proper application at all levels, in both
spirit and letter, of the guidelines appearing in the Procedures Manual and
compliance with all the contractual obligations to which the Agency is
subject.
Special attention is paid to verification and quality of monitoring of
work site operations and the data being provided from the work site.
IX-2 Special obligations of various departments at the time of review of
accounts and performance of administrative audits
The account auditors and the evaluators responsible for carrying out the
audits of management are accredited by the Director at the various offices
that are concerned with the Agency at the time of their first visit to the
offices. As a general rule, the financial office is the principal point of
contact for the account auditors, whereas the technical office is the
principal point of contact for the evaluators responsible for management
audits.
An office shall be made available to the auditors and evaluators
responsible for administrative audits and an employee of the office that is
most concerned, depending on the circumstances, shall be assigned to respond
to the requests for documents and to materially facilitate the evaluators'
task.
IX-3 Conduct of employees in relation to auditors and evaluators responsible
for management review
Insofar as possible, the schedule of operations by the outside
evaluators in charge of monitoring and oversight of the Agency shall be
organized in such manner as to limit the disturbance that these actions will
give rise to in the execution of the current functions of the staff.
However, the staff should consider itself to be constantly available for this



110                              Annex 3
purpose during the audits and review and should give any resulting requests
priority attention over and above their other duties.
The auditors and evaluators responsible for management reviews who have
been duly accredited by the Director have access to all the documents held by
the Agency without exception, and the staff is obligated to comply as soon as
possible with any request for them to furnish documents and to respond
accurately to any question asked of them.



111                              Annex 3
Section X
Personnel Management
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project will be
administered in accordance with the principles of management by objective:
X-1 Principles of management by objective
Management by objective is a systematic effort to enrich tasks
vertically  to  permit  managers  and  employees,  within  their  sphere  of
responsibility,  to  contribute  to  attainment  of  their  organization's
objectives.
This is a process by which the supervisor and subordinate at all
administrative levels come together and set the goals to be attained by the
subordinate over a certain period of time. These goals are directly entered
into the goals of the organization. A progress review is carried out on a
pre-established date to evaluate the actual achievements in relation to the
expected outcomes.
X-2  Procedure for issuance of a yearly statement of objectives
Each year at the beginning of the annual cycle, each manager or
supervisory employee receives his Statement of Annual Objectives; this yearly
cycle runs from July 1 to June 30 of the following year.
A well-managed enterprise should:
-   infczm its workers what is expected of them;
-  help them oerform their work efficiently;
- identify those workers who are capable of assuming greater
responsibilities;
- remunerate them in accordance with their contribution; and
- sanction their failures.
For their part, the workers should know:
- how their work is evaluated; and
- what they can expect as a result of their work.
On the basis of their efforts, it is necessary to implement a program
that:
- allows each employee to be informed, at least once a year, of his
supervisor's explanation of the results of his work;



112                              Annex 3
- encourages managers to counsel their employees on their individual
development (improvement of performance, possible promotion); and
-  serves as the basis for application of the policy of increasing
salaries on the basis of merit.
Process:
1.   At the beginni..g of the annual cycle, the Director General of the Agency
meets with the entire staff and sets out the overall mission and objectives
of the Agency for the year to come and for the entire duration of the
project.
The overall objectives thus involve a multi-year projection and are
multidimensional in nature.
2.   Moreover, he establishes an individualized statement of objectives for
the staff members that report directly to him.
3.   Each manager arranges a meeting of all his employees and discusses with
them the objectives of his unit; this is a presentation and explanation of
the objectives of the office or department, which will be the basis for
individual objectives.
He then personally interviews each employee to discuss the organization
of his work, his potential problems and unavoidable obstacles, to come to an
agreement on his own individual objectives and to set forth the criteria for
eventual evaluation of his performance. All of this is recorded, in summary
fashion, in a document that serves as the Annual Statement of Objectives.
X-3 Evaluation procedure
X-3-1 Self-evaluation
The self-discipline contemplated in the method of management by
objective is a significant source of motivation. Self-discipline relies, in
fact, on the hypothesis that the workers are responsible and that they want
to contribute to attaining objectives; it is up to them to manage themselves
with regard to the means and measures to be taken to attain their objectives.
By referring to the statement of objectives, each employee can verify
whether he is on schedule or not, and on this basis make the necessary
decisions. In this way, without awaiting the end of the annual cycle, he is
able to evaluate himself and seek, if necessary, the opinion of his
supervisor. For this purpose, he will make use of the card for analysis of
progress toward objectives.
X-3-2 Evaluation at the end of the annual cycle
At the end of the annual cycle, each worker is interviewed by his
supervisor; the supervisor presents his evaluation of the employee's
performance with relation to the objectives, but at the level of group



113                              Annex 3
evaluation, he will take into account other factors that may have a positive
or negative bearing on proper operation of the office.
The employee acknowledges his evaluation and can make his own comments
on it.
His signature shows that he has read his performance evaluation but it
does not mean that he has approved of the rating. Performance evaluations
(cf. performance evaluation card) are as followst
1. Outstanding
2. Very Good
3. Good
4. Needs Improvement
5. Unsatisfactory
All evaluations are approved by the Director General of the Agency.
X-4 Salary increases and sanctions
X-4-l    Salary increases
The general rule in the area of salary increases is that they are
awarded on the basis of merit as a direct function of the performance
evaluation given at the end of the annual cycle.  Only 'outstanding' and
"very good" performers can expect a salary increase within the limitations of
approved funding levels. To the contrary, general increases are not allowed,
except in the event of a provision of law issued by the government.
X-4-2    Bonuses for outstanding performers
In addition, a bonus for outstanding perfomance is paid as follows
after the end of each annual cycle on June 30:
Outstanding Performers:  125 percent -f monthly salary (not counting
allowances.
Very Good Performers.    105 percent of monthly salary (not counting
allowances.
Other performers are not eligible for bonuses.
X-4-2    Sanctions
An overall evaluation of 'Unsatisfactory' means that the employee will
be very closely supervised and a file will be prepared in anticipation of
separation of the employee if significant and quick improvements are not
seen.



114                              Annex 3
Generally, sanctions for various infractions are as follows:
- Oral remarks;
- Warning;
- Reprimand;
- Suspension from duty; and
- Dismissal.
Sanctions are taken by the employee's supervisor; accorling to the
seriousness of the infraction committed, the measure may be taken directly by
the Director General of the Agency.
When the sanction is taken by the supervisor, other than in the case of
oral remarks, the Director General of the Agency should be informed in
advance.



115                              Annex 3
AGETIP
SELF-EVALUATIONs ANALYSIS OF PROGRESS TOWARD OBJECTIVES
On this sheet, the employee states the stage of progress toward individual
objectives, and provides any comments on positive or negative factors that
have affected whether the expected goals were achieved, whatever the cause.
Comments
Current stage of progress toward goals
Explanation    Corrected or
of delays      new goals



116                              Annex 3
EXECUTING AGENCY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
Personnel. Performance EvaluatLon Card
Full names
Staff No.s
Positlon:                                 DivLsions
OBJECTIVES for 19
(by area of actlvity)                Performance Rating      Comments
Signaturet
Employee                                    Superv.sor
Date:



117                              Annex 3
EXECUTING AGENCY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
SummarZ of Overall Performances
1. Outstanding
2. Very Good
3. Good
4. Needs Improvement
5. Unsatisfactory
Signature of Supervisor           Name of Supervisor           Date
Employee's remarks on performance rating:
Signature                         Date
Approval by Director General:
Signature                           Date



118                            Annex 3
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS ID EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ACTITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
OJZCTS ACCEPTED DURIG  THE PERIOD



119                            Annex 3
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EPLOYHENT PROJECT
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
CONTRACT AWARDED DURING THE PERIOD



120                             Annex 3
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
SUMMARY OF CONTRACTS AND DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORIES OF WORKS



121                              Annex 3
SIGL
UIeC WOK  AND UWI.O13N     lo.JUT
ACTYI msrOT OF
Sept. 15. 1989
PerLod frm July 1, 1989
to Auput 31, 199s
Pt80L  LOUD ay FIN  Duam  PnIOD



122                             Annez 3
PUBLIC WORKS AND 3ILOYIENT PROJECT
ACTITY REORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
CONTRACTS FOR PERFORMANC OF SEIRICES



123                            Annex 3
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
STATEMENT OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING SERVICES TO FIRMS



124                             Annex 3
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EHPLOYMENT PROJECT
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
PERFORMANCE OF WORKS OVER COURSE OF THE PERIOD



AGETnP vs. S uandars for Transpor, Urban Pro*ss
Percen of Credt Disbursed by uater
-------Quarters fromn Approval Date-------
S.CTOR            2    4    6    8   10   12   14   16   18   20   22   24   26   28   30   32   34   36
AGEflP                  18   21   49   66
TRANSPORT -GENERAL    0    3    6   14   26   38   46   58   70   78   86   94   g8  100
TRANSPORT-AFRICA         0    3   10  18   30   42   54   66   74   82   go   94 96    98 100
TRANSPORT-ASIA           0    3    6   14   18   26   38   46   58   70  78   86   94   98 100
TRANSPORT -EMIENA        0    3   10   18   30   42   54   66   74   86   go    8  100 
TRANSPORT- LAC           0    3    6   14   22   34   50   58   70   82   90   94   88  100
TRANSPORT - SENEGAL    0    6   30   50   62   74   86   90   94   96  98  100
URBAN - GENERAL          0    3   10   14   18   26   34   46   54   66   78   86   94   98  100
URAN - AFFUCA            0    6   10   14   22   30   42 50    58   70   78 86 0       4    8 6 100
URBAN - ASIA             0    6   10   18   26   34   46   58   66   78   90   94   98  100
URBAN- BEENA             0    3    3    6   10   14   22   26   34   46   54   62   74   82   90   g8  100
URIBN- LAC               0    3    6   10   14   22   30   38   50   62   78   90  98  100
URBAN - SENEGAL       fgures unavaIlabe)
0'Ix
,4
o



126
ANNEX 5
Page I of 8
La Liste des Entreprises
Attributaires de Marchds IDA



LISTE DES ENTREPRISES ATTRIBUTAIRES
DE MARCHES IDA
NBRE DE  CUNUL MONTANT
NO    E N T R E P R I S E S        CATEGORIE   MARCHES       MARCHES         FORNE        DATE DE
GAGNE      GAGNES        JURIDIQUE      CREATION
1  EGCB (A. Lamine CISSE)            B           1        57 885 951      SARL        DEC. 89
2  EF CBENA                          B           1         57 366 843     SARL        DEC. 89
3  ESCI                              B           2         76 329 9CJ     SARL        JANV. 80
4  GENEQUIT                          B           3         47 940 690     SARL        SEPT. 87
5  TACKU LIGUEY                      B           1          8 686 800     GIE         AVRIL 89
6  GENITEG                           B           3         28 088 640     SARL        FEV. 89
7  CIA                               B           2         23 742 020      SARL       JANV. 88
8  SNIC                              C           2         39 318 415      SARL       'JANV. 87
9  CSE                               D           1         93 435 936      S.A.       JANV. 70
10  ECN                               A           1          4 355 405  ENT. PERSON.  JANV. 86
11  SETEG                             B           1          5 720 690  ENT. PERSON.  JANV. 82
12  SNEA                              B           2         18 515 128      SARL       JANV. 89
13  ETPBA                             B           2 .       39 122 311  ENT. INDIV.
00
Iii
UV
Z
Pl



NBRE DE CUMUL MONTANT
Ne    E N T R E P R I S E .3       CATEGORIE   MARCHES      MARCHES         FORME       DATE DE
GAGNE      GAGNES        JURIDIQUE     CREATION
14  NEC DAKAR                         B          1          9 748 630  ENT. PERSON.  JANV. 75
15  TECHNICOM                         B          2         41 171 854  ENT. INDIV.   JUIL. 83
16  ECOPRES                           B          1          8 741 364  ENT. INDIV.   DEC. 80
17  CEGES                             B          3         87 532 350     GlE         JANV. 88
18  BERET                             A          1          5 125 002  ENT. INDIV.
19  SENICON-                          A          1          5 462 462     S.A.        JANV. 75
20  GEAUR                      .      B          2         16 004 482  ENT. INDIV.   AVRIL 90
21  ERECA                             B           1        62 968 463      SARL       JUIL. 90
22  ETS DEYMAN                        B           1        11 400 000  ENT. PERSON.  FEV. 89
23  SITRADEC                          B           1         7 795 000      SARL       JANV. 90
24  EGMD & CIE                        B           1         5 970 000  ENT. PERSON.  OCT. 88
25  ECOTECN                           A           1        19 406 075  ENT. PERSON.  JANV. 87
26  AFRO-CONSTRUCTION                 B          2         26 352 165      SARL       NOV. 88
27  EGBEV                             B          22        18 891 172  ENT. PERSON.  AVRIL 80
28  VILLA-AFRIQUE                     B           1        32 963 439      SARL       MARS 88
29  A     IIA                                     1        22 874 224  ENT. PERSON.  JANV. 92
9DX
0



NBRE DE  CUNUI' MONTANT
No    E N T R E P R I S E S        CATEGORIE   MARCHES      MAi1CHES        FORME        DATE DE
GAGNE      GAGNES        JURIDIQUE      CREATION
30  EBGC A. FALL                      a           1        32 866 244      SARL        JUIL. 68
31  EGBER                             B           1         6 239 721  ENT. PERSON.  AVRIL 89
32  EGBA/RASSOULOULAHI                A           1         9 993 447  ENT. INDIV.        82
33  SONEPRES                          B           1        26 531 475      SARL        MAI 85
34  EBES                              B           2        21 971 286  ENT. PERSON.       89
35  ERECO                             B           2        37 157 477  r    PERSON.  MAI 88
36  ESCO                              B           4        18 822 219  ENT. INDIV.   JUIN 88
37  F.SCA                             A           1         3 762 419  ENT. INDIV.   SEPT. 89
38  ETB                               A           1         9 571 125  ENT. INDIV.   FEV. 75
39  INTER HYDROGEC                    A           1         9 746 015  ENT. PERSON.  JUIN 89
40  MKI                               A           2        22 141 424      SARL        JAV. 88
41  D & PARTNERS                      B           1        19 605 741      SARL        MAI 90
42  CITAP                             B           3        46 970 510      SARL        JUIN 87
43  GIE NAATANGUE                     A           1         9 215 000      GIE         JU1N 90
44  A A O A - THIES                   A           2        18 768 902  Groupement d'artisans
00
_                                                   .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a



NBRE DE CUMUL MONTANT
No    E N T R E P R I S E S        CATFGORIE   MARCHES       MARCHES         FORME        DATE DE
GAGNE      GAGNES        JURIDIQUE      CREATION
45  ETS NDIAYE                         A           2        14 297 574  ENT. INDIV.   OCT. 89
46  EGMD - THIES                       A           1         9 945 353  ENT. INDIV.   JANV. 88
47  ENTREPRISE DU BAOL                 A           1        12 801 502  ENT. INDIV.   JANV. 85
48  SENATRAV                           B          1         18 095 000      SARL        AOUT 81
49  ESETP                              3          2         89 688 058  ENT. INDIV.   NOV. 89
50  EGBTP - KAOLACK                   A           1          5 674 831
51  EGMBTVS                            B          3         73 940 087  ENT. INDIV.   JANV. 72
52  SENEGAL ESPACES VERTS              B           1        22 449 161  ENT. INDIV.   JANV. 78
53  ENTREPRISE CHEIKH TRAORE           A           1         9 271 077  ENT. PERSON.  JANV. 75
54  SEM                                B          2         26 821 213  ENT. INDIV.   JANV. 89
55  CETIC GIE                          A           1         7 648 000      GIE         MARS 90
56  EBTP FATICK                        A          1          3 923 280  ENT. INDIV.   MARS. 87
57  SOGECO                             B          2         51 100 925      S.A.        JANV. 85
58  EGCOT                             A           1.         3 748 373  ENT. PERSON.  JANV. 89
59  TTCEB                              A          1          6 734 829  ENT. INDIV.   JANV. 88
0
Ut



NBRE DE CUMUL MONTANT
[t    E N T R E P R I S E S        CATEGORIE   MARCHES      MARCHES         FORME        DATE DE
GAGNE      GAGNES        JURIDIQUE      CREATION
60  EGBTI REUR CHEIKH                 A           3        75 514 364
61  EGBTP MOUSSA DIA                  A           1        20 842 748
62  GROUPE SURSAUT                    A           1        20 000 000      GIE         AOUT 88
63  EMCSL                             B           1        13 827 500
64  S'.'I GIE                         B           2        95 235 574      GIE         AOUT 90
65  ECEBOTP                           A           1        10 399 467  ENT. INDIV.   JANV. 77
66  GTA                               B           1        24 981 000  ENT. INDIV.   JANV'. 86
67  ENTREPRISE TOMBON TALI.          . B          3        40 066 936
68  COOP. OUV. ART. ZIGUIICHOR       A           7        90 569 282
69  ENTREPRISE IBRA SECK              B           2        10 409 798
70  SOMER                             B           1        10 482 940      SARL        OCT. 86
71  BISMILAHI                         A           1         1 811 755  ARTISANALE    JUIN 75
72  ECETP                             B           1        32 239 448  ENT. INDIV.
73  ASSE NDIAYE                       A           1         4 493 970  ARTISANALE    JANV. 76
74  ENTREPRISE LOUGA LO               A           1         8 037 803      SARL        SEPT. 90



NBRE DE CUMUL MONTANT
NO    E N T R E P R I S E S      CATEGORIE  MARCHES      MARCHES        FORME       DATE DE
GAGNE     GAGNES       JURIDIQUE     CREATION
75  GIE SEYTOU                      A          1         4 800 000    GIE         OCT. 90
76  HABITAT 2 000                   C          1        17 707 573    S.A.        JANV. 82
77  SHYDA                           B          1        28 604 449  ENT. INDIV.   JANV. 84
78  ENTREPRISE ABDOULAYE            A          1         4 585 009                               N
CAMARA
120    2 047 027 295
Fb0e
.   . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H



& cz o'iznmn   03  AVATWK
w13iC    muI           Lz s0uS-  i   (Ala)
STSTEI. DI CLASsilnCATIOU  DES  EfTIlkl sm
ACTIVITE_                 _                         A  T  I         e  N  T   _                                                          ASS.
CRISERES                          TOUJanYe *t CberpTs      Oct  anM e    rrentu,e  Maoi  Plo.  olectrq Teli-   Pei-  Vitre-  1T01              t     VADI ASS.
corp  vre0  *et     - held =    ea      rlelbl rfe M&- berl  citi    pbone   tare       rie            VYIS   DR-AD- RAL
-- ou_cusnricaneudt  h! detd  *erture    _                         tet             tallique                                                         LIQUQS
Peroa peno o                          1      1       1       1 t              1      1      1        I       I       1        1      1        1      1
@bilfre doaffafteo*
A    nferleu  n i                        20      10      5       5        10      5      10      10      S       5       5        SO     10       10     5
Peayeut pafliciper A des
Appel d'Offree* jusi'A               30      10      8       a        10      8      a      10      8        8       a        40     10       10     a
personnclp rmenteo.               I  t 01   I et I   I et 10 I at 10 I et 10 I et 10 letl 1 et lO I at 10 I et 10  aet 10 Iet 10 I at 10 I et 10 latlO
3   dPuffalres c,ri' entre            2OctIOO  1Oe501 10.050  10t50   SetSO   10et50 10et50 10.t50  5et50   5et50   Set5O   501etlO 1OctSO  10ot50  5et50
Peuvent barticiper A doe
Appels d'Offres jusqt'"              70       35     25       25      50      25       25    50      25      25      25      90       25      35      25
cauprl                                   coeprJ-                coptrl                           copris
Pereonuel permanent       entrs up I                  a    gp  Sup              A Sup   A     tre eSup  Sup A   Sup A   cntre   Sup A   Sup A           Sup A
c                             10et50            10        10      10   1Oet20      10    10  lOet20      10       10      10   lOetSO    10       10      10
us                      ~~~~~~Capri.      Sup A 50 Sup 1 50 Sup A SO compris Sup 15o Sup A  copl Sup A   Sup A   Sup A  cmrim  Sup A   Sup A   Sup A
Cbhffre d'Affalrea annuel entre                                        t oot         50    cOtr   50        S50      50    5et.        0 s   50       so
~~~~1                   Z~~~~~~OO.t                                50.0150               50.015                              0150s
.4      Peuvent particlp.r A des
3       AAppals d'Offrei luoqu'si    250          to les   to lea to lea    100  to lee  tous    100   to leg  ta leg  to leg  300    to lesa   le            lea
appel,  oppelo appeic            oppelo  lea            appal. appelo  appae                c.ple ape.P    : Pp.",
d'of f re  d'of-  d'of-          d'of -   appol         d'off re  d'of-    offre        d'of fre  d'of-   'of
free   fres            free    d'of-                   frea                             rea     ree
Persoumel pernent
aper'our A                 50      _         _              _        20      -       -     20       -       -       -       SO      _        _       _
Cbitffre d'Affalres an-
anal eupirliurA            500    _          _      _       _       150      -       -    150       -       -       -      500      _       _        _
Peuvent partclapar A
des Appela d'Offres        tone                                     tous                  toeus                            tan
jusuqn'                   l.s                                      leg                    lea                              liw
*ppleo                                  appole dppele fppe-     u
d'offre                                  d'offre                d'offr to                         offrct
en millioans de facslp Sup6rleur



134                                 AnnciLE
Page 1
I.  PRESENTATION DU PROGRAMME DE FORMATION SUR (03) TROIS ANS
Le programme de formation sera divise en deux principaux volets:
*     Volet Formation (mise I niveau)
*     Volet Formation professionnel
En vue d'atteindre les objectifs en termes d'efficacite, la misc en oeuvre du programme devra passer
les dtapes ci-apres:
1.    Preparation d'un cahier de charges pour 1'ensemble des modules de formation
2.     Consultation des cabinets, organismes et experts specialises dans la formation
3.    Depouillement des appels d'offres
4.     Mise en place d'un calendrier d'execution
5.     Mise en place d'un systbme d'evaluation et de suivi
6.    Definition de criteres d'evaluation qui tiennent compte des parametres de succes et
d'echecs des parties prenantes (AGETIP, Entreprises, Consultants) en termes:
- de creation d'emplois
- de perennite des entreprises et de l'emploi
- d'efficacite des dirigeants d'entreprises
- du nombre d'employes formes.
7.     Mise sur pied d'un fichier de donnees ou repertoire exhaustif des entreprises
8.    Determination d'un echantillon representatif, base d'Evaluation du programme de
formation en particulier et du Programme d'Actions pour la GEndration d'Emplois
de I'AGETIP (PAGE) en gdnEral.
ALi    Volet formation
Dans sa premiere phase, la formation s'etalera sur 12 mois dont 8 mois de formation theorique et 4
mois d'application.
Cette formation s'adresse aux chefs d'entreprise, aux cadres et techniciens qui beneficieront d'actions
de mise A niveau I travers 8 modules:
1.   apprendre I se connaltre, identifier son potentiel 'entrepreneurship' (esprit d'entreprise)
2.   mise en place d'un.outil comptable
3.   mise en place d'une comptabilite analytique
4.   soumissionner I un marche AGETIP
5.   gestion des chantiers, conduite des travaux
6.   initiation I l'informatique
7.   obligations juridiques, fiscales et sociales
8.   contentieux juridique, fiscal, et social.
La seconde phase sEtealera sur 24 mois dont 12 mois de formation, 6 mois d'application, 2 mois de
pause et 4 mois d'dvaluation.



135                                  Aonnex"
Page 2
A co niveau, I'accent sera mis sur le renforcement des capacites managdriales, sur I'aptitude des
dirigeants a changer leur comportement et I rendre leurs entreprises plus competitives.
Onze (11) modules de diagnostic sont retenus:
- diagnostic global
- diagnostic management et reorganisation d'entreprise
- diagnostic juridique, fiscal et social
- diagnostic comptabilite generale
- ditgnostic marketing
- diagnostic gestion des stocks et des approvisionnements
- diagnostic financier
- diagnostic gestion des chantiers et contrOle des travaux
- diagnostic comptabilite analytique
- diagnostic de stratdgie: plan de developpemer.
environ 680 entreprises des BTP sont cibldes par le programme.
L      Volet formation professionnelle
C;bIl: ouvriers et techniciens superieurs des entreprises de BTP beneficiaires du Programme
d'Action pour la Generation d'Emplois (PAGE)
&Z (07) modules sont retenus:
- Electricite-bltiment
- plomberie
- soudure
- menuiserie
- conducteurs d'engins de chantiers et mecaniciens
- peinture
- maconnerie
Durhe: 18 mois avec six cessions de 3 mois chacune
II.  PRESENTATION DES ORGANISMES DE FORMATION
1.     CABINET       AZIZ DIEYE
2.     CABINET       AFID-CONSULTANCE
3.     CABINET       ABC
4.     CABINET       GTF
5.     CABINET       GTI
6.   CENTRE   DE FORMATION CNQP
7.     CABINET       FIDECA
8.     CABINET       CEPIC
9.     CABINET       MACY
10.  CENTRE   DE FORMATION INFORMATIQUE ENG & CO



136                                 Anx,
Page 3
11.   CABINET    PRH-EC
12.   CABINET    PROGESIS
Devant un programme aussi important que le programme de formation AGETIP, il y a lieu de
reflechir sur l'idee de creer une fondation qui se chargerait exclusivement de la formation et qui
pourrait tirer profit de la vocation de Dakar Centre de services.



137
RESULTATS
D'ENQUETE



138
010 AY3jZ-Vous IDENTIFr DES DESOINS R FORMATION POUR VOUS 7
Number    Percent
1 - OUI                         28         96.6 t
2 -  NON                                    3.4 t
Total                  29         100.0 %
MissLng cases - 2
Response percent -  93.5 %
glOb: POUR VOS EMPLOYES            Number    Percent
1-   OUI                        30         100.0 %
Total                  30          100.0 %
Misslng cases - 1
Response percent - 96.8 t
X! ou! POUR OUELLES CATEGORIES
Number of cases - 31                       Count     Percent
I1 -  CADRES SUPERIEURS          24        77.4 %
2 -  CADRES MOYENS               21        67.7 %
3 - AGENTS DE MAITRISE           is        48.4 %
4 *  AUTRES                       7        22.6 15
10
70
60
sOU  OEL    CATEnOR e        ES e VEZ-VO dS
por  uxmi0sattos   nt   w    L
20
96ux desperysone Cen besroins antiAstot LdentLffldeibspounr dea oradren
xupftisurs ( 77% ) et lee cadres moayns ( 67,7% ).



139
011  AVUZ-vOus                PROGRz948
Number    Percent
1 = OUI                           28        90.3 0
2 w  NON                           3          9.7 %
Total                    31        100.0 %
Hlising cases = 0
Response percent   100.0 %
01 SRI 3VE8 MODULES.AVEZ-VOUS SUXVI
Number of cases - 31
Count     Percent
01 -  ORGANISATION ENTREPRISE            23         74.2 %
02 -  FISCALITE                          15         48.4 %
03 -  DROIT DE L'ENTREPRISE               6         19.4 %
04 -  MARKETING                           17        54.8 %
05 -  COMPTABILITE GENERALE               16        51.6 %
06 -  COMPTABILITE ANALYTIQUE            20         64.5 l
07 -  GESTION DE LA TRESORERIE           20         64.5 %
08 -  GESTION DES STOCKS                  15        48.4 %
09 -  GESTION DES APPROVISIONNEMENTS   11           35.5 %
10 -  GESTION BUDGETAIRE                  10        32.3 %
11 -  GESTION DE LA QUALITE                2         6.5 %
12 -  INFORMATIQUE                         5        16.1 %
13 -  GESTION FINANCIERE                   8        25.8 %
14 -  GESTION RESSOURCES HUMAINES          4        12.9 %
15 -  GESTION DE CHANTIERS                 8        25.8 t
16 -  TECHNIQUES DE COMMUNICATION          1        .2..2 %
17 -  AUTRES                               3         9.7 %
OUELS MODULES AVEZ-VOUS SUIVI
90,3% des personnes interrog&es ont particip6 au programme de formation
AGETIP.
Lee modules de formation les plus suivis sonit:
-l'organisation de Ilentreprise ( 74,2% )
-la comptabilit6 analytLque et la gesion do tr6sorie C64,5% 
-le marketing ( 54,8% )
la comptabilt6 g6nrale a     51,6% .
-la fiscalit6 et la gestion des stocks C 48,4%)



140
DAMS QUJELS DOMAINES
Number of cases - 31
Count     Percent
01 -  ADMINISTATION              16         51.6 %
02 -  TECHNIQUE                  20         64.5 %
03 -  GESTION DE LA QUALITE       9        29.0 %
04 =  GESTION DES STOCKS          6         19.4 %
05 -  GESTION DU PERSONNEL        8         25.8 %
06 -  FISCALITE                  17         54.8 I
07 =  DROIT                      12         38.7 %
08 -  MARKETING                  12         38.7 t
05 -  GESTION DE CHANTIERS       18         58.1 l
10 -  COMPTABILITE GENERALE      10        32.3 %
11 -  COMPTABILITE ANALYTIQUE    9         29.0 1-
12 -  FINANCE                     7        22.6 %
13 -  INFORMATIQUE               18        58.1 %
14 -  INGENIERIE                 13        41.9 %
15 -  MAINTENANCE                 5         16.1 %
16 -  SECURITE                    5        16.1 %
17 -  COMMUNICATION               S         16.1 %
18 -  AUTRES                      1          3.2 %
-        DANS QUELS DOMAINES
70
J  40
so _
20
10
01 02 03 04  05 0  07  0   0o  10  11t 12  13 44  1  16  17 19
Les domaines oO 1'on a le plus identifl des besoins de formation Bonts
- la technique ( 64,5% )
- la gestion de chantiers et 1Ilnformatique S 58,1% )
- la fiscalit6 ( 54,8% )
- l'administratLon ( 51,6% ).



U0n0=  sw  o  Axsxw                 141
Number of cages - 31                       Count      Percent
01 -  MANAGEMENT                        14         45.2 %
02 -  FISCALITE                         12         38.7 %
03 -  ASPECTS JURIDIQUES                13         41.9 %
04 -  COMPTABILITSE  ENERALE             7         22.6 %
05 -  COMPTAILITE ANALYTIQUE            8         25.8 %
06 -  GESTION FINANCIERE                 10        32.3 %
07 -  CESTION DE STOCKS                   6        19.4 %
08 -  GESTION RESSOURCES HUMAINES         8        23.8 %
09 -  GESTION DE LA QUALITE               5        16.1 %
10 -  GESTION BUDGETAIRE                 6         19.4 %
11 -  INFORMATIQUE                      19         61.3 1
12 -  GESTION TRESORERIE                 7         22.6 %
13 -  MARKETING                         10         32.3 %
14 -  ORGANISATION D'ENTREPRISE          9         29.0 %
15 -  GESTION DE CHANTIERS              10         32.3 %
16 -  TECHNIQUES DE COMMUNICATION        9         29.0 %
17 -  INGENIERIE                         8         25.8 %
18 -  TECHNIQUE                         13         41.9 %
QUELS SONr LES MODULES QUE VOUS
Los modules quo -lea entrepreneurs .souhaitent avoLr le plus dans le
prograuwuef de 'formation sont:
-. 'informatique C61,3%) 
Ale.management   4 45,2% 
-la technique et leas aupects juridiques ( 41,9%)
leI marketing, la gestion f inancL6re et la gestion de chantLers
(32,31 )



142
Oljg *ER!3Z-VOU3 P    A RIPEjR AUX FRAX  DE Vg= 
Number      Percent
I a  OUl                         23         74.2 *
2 -  tlON                          8        25.8 %
Total                    31        100.0 %
Missing cases - 0
Response percent - 100.0 %
SERIEZ-VOUS PRETS A PARTCIPER AUX FRAIS
.05b    1  9  OSLIUCNT U aI    P  
I~ ~ INI%166. 
Totl                   23        10. 
Misain  cae8 
i~~~~~~~~~~~i
Response percenr -Percent
Si OUI .    U
t -10                         16696U
J   2    25                        4        1  4U
3 -50%3                                  1  0 
_~~~
*6
be~~~~ _ubr I                          n    I
2-   _5                           4         1;4
|  *    _~~~~~~~~~~~
Tota                        2100 
_isn   ae    
Repos  pecn  -  74.  |
SI Oul QUE  *ORETG  POI~e-VOl
U.~~~-  



CALENDPIERDEXCUrfON
RJERES                                                 PERK)DE (MOIS)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36
,    I  I  I        I.    I               I       I        I       I   I 
*    ,1           it      1       1           1                    11      g
_                     I   ~~~~~t III     'I      I I      
Fomiation&LIa Gestion     ,         iI                      I                        I,
.  ~ _1                        ,  tII   I      I       I       I       I          I
l |I I          I    I                 g         I      I         II
fonnathn~~ 4  I j{                I       t       |I              I
PhasI: Modules durgence     I     aj
Formation        ....L4                   iI
Application       .   *!
<   .            -        -W    ~~ ~~I Ii,          iI    )11|II
Phase 2: Diagnostic-Formation-    i                I    I                I                        iI
Action                   Ill          It               I               4 i             I
Formation                  I                            I                       I tt
AppUlcation           I                 I
Evalutation           *                                          I
Formation Professionnelte  5          3
I  I    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
,    ,,I      I                                    ,   I



144             ~~~ANNEXE 7
144                             '
PROGRAMME D'ACTION__
PE t         ACTIONS                        TACHES                         INTERESSES
se rapprocher du Ministere      solliciter l'attribution du ben4fice  MEFP, AGETIP*Banque Mondiale
de rEconomie, des Finances et   de l artlicle 2 de Ia loi bancaire  Consultanta
du Plan                          90.06
r*unir les Institutions financieres  informer et solliciter leur
2  Intemationales ou les Institutions  implication au projet        AGETIP-Banque Mondlale
Publiques Etrangbres d'Alde ou de                                Institutions Financieres et
Cooperation                                                      Institutions Publiques dcAlde ou
de Cooperation. Consultants.
elaboration drun fichier exhaustif  recenser et d6terminer les carac-  Consultants, AGETIP-Banque
_   3                                   teristiques des entreprises BTP    Mondiale, Entreprises BTP
mettre en place un fichier de
________________________________  suivi.
4  etude de faisabilit6 de la SCM pilote recenser les bosoins financiers    Consultants
des entreprises BTP             Entreprises BTP
_ ______________________________ appr6cier les possibilites de la  AGETIP-Banque Mondiale
rgalisation de la SCM
campagne de vulgarisation et    definir les supports de communi-  Consultants
5  de promotion                     cation                           AGETIP-Banque Mondiale
Autres bailleurs de fonds
Entreprises BTP
Ministere Communication
6  verification de la pertinence des    apprtcier la viabilite des   Consultants
crittres de choix                entreprises                     AGE11P
creation de la SCM               etablir les statuts et le reglement  Consultants
7                                   int6rieur                        Entreprises BTP
determiner les procedures de    AGETIP-Banque Mondiale
validation                      Autres bailleurs de fonds
convocation de lAssemblee        soumettre les statufs et le     AGETIP-Banque Mondiale
a  Generale et formation du Bureau    r6glement interieur A Ilapproba-  Membres fondateurs
tion de rAssemblee Generale     Consultants
relite l Bureau
formation et information des    dCfinir les modules de formation    Consultants
9  membres                          cholsir les formateurs           Membres
definir un syst6me d'information   AGETIP-Banque Mondiale
et de communication
Protocole de conventions avec   definir les modalites de collabora-  Banques
0  les Banques                      tion ou de participation des     Consultants
Banques
AGETIP-Banque liondiale



______________________     ____________ CALENDRIER DEXECUTION DES ACTIONS
ACTIONS                   PARTIES
PRENANTES
E-XECUTANTES                                          PERIODES (mcis)                     I
1. Se approcher du Minisibre de                    0  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 B 9 10  11  12  13  14  15  16 17  18  19 20 2
rEconomle, des Finances el du  Consullants/AGETIP                                                                      ;
Plan                                                  t 
2. Rbunlr les InslilulIoons
publiques of llnancdbres 4lrangrres Consultants/AGETIP
3. Elaborer up fichier exhaustif    Consultants
4. Eludler la falsablI4 de la SCM   Consultants       I I                     i
5. Moner une campagne de                                                                                                      VI
vulgarisatlon el de promotion  Consu!tants                                    ;
6. VWrifer la perinence des    Consultants, AGETIP.        !                          l-J
crilbres de cholx              Balileurs de londs       I
7. Cr6alion de la SCM          Consullanls. AGETIP    .
Membres SCM
8. Convoquer rAssemblee GOnOrate  Membres londateurs  I                I
9. Former at Informer los membros Consultants, bureau
IO.Protocole do convention avec    Consultanis. AGETIP,  Ii
les banqueses                                         Ii                                       t                           _
I.t    9  I   9 .    *  .   .  .   *  .   .  .   .  .



146
RESULTATS
D'ENQUETE



147
glam  SONT VOS PROBLEMES SPELECI loSs  PC E INANCE 
Number of cases - 29                                     Count      Percent
1 -  FONDS ROULEMENT          is       62.1 %
2 -  ACHAT EQUIPEMENT         13       44.8 %
3 -  EXECUTION MARCHE         13       44.8 %
PROBLEMES SPECIFIQUES DE  FINANCEMENT
70
40
OMMES R0pTM LS OBSTACLS A.L' ACCES AU CREDIT
Number of cases - 29                                     Count      Percent
i =  GARANTIES                14       48.3 %
-.          2 =  APPORT PERSONNEL          10      34.5 %
3 -  TAUX INTERET             11       37.9 %
4 -  DUREE REMBOURSEMENT       4       13.8 %
5 =  DOSSIER BANCABLE          4       13.8 %
6 =  INFORMATION               8       27.6 %
7 =  AUTRE                     1        3.4 %
EOBSrACL.ES  A  L 'ACCES  AU  F I NANCEMENT
Me
Lsprcpaes obtclsI la6  au fiacmn  mn  i_ la grani
c48,3%A lea i  OntO .   u11 . 39 e  lpprouperso nn el (34T a DN
Lo premier problame de financement eat le fonda do roulement ( 62.*1%
)suivi. do l'acbat d'6quipement et de l@6x6cutS.on dos ineach6s (44.8%).
Zoo pr$selipal-s obstacles & i'acchs au financement monit t la garantie
(46,3%), 1.s taux d'int8r6t (37,9%).et lapport personnlel (34,5%).



148
014: 3STflhAZ!0N 5380QX3 PNDS DE RODLKXN             Nwumber    Porcent
1     - de 300000F                 2        7.4%
2 -  300000-500000 F                 6      22.2 %
3 -  500000-lMillion                3       11.1 %
4 -  1 et 3 Millions                9       33.3%
5 -  3 et 5 Millions                5       18.5%
6 -  + de 6 Millions                2        7.4%
Total                              27      100.0 %
Missing cases - 2
Response percent a 93.1 t
EST I MAT I ON DU iE5SO I N EN FONDS DE
.s .                i.UL os anV  ^in 1oS b
U0~~~~~~0
a15 s BESOIN EOUIPIEbMZ                     Number    Percent
I -  - de I Million                 3       11.5 t
2 Or I et 3 Millions                3       ll.S t
3 -  3 et 5 Millions                 5      19.2 %
4 -  5 et 10 M4l11on               12       46.2 %
5 -  + de 10 Million                3       11.5 t
Total                              26      100.0 
Missing cases = 3
Response percent -  89.7 t
EST I MAT I ON DU EIESO I N ENt- FONDS
go              suaoomao- C"aoco Aa neen I.Oooa
A$O
so~~~soo-ooe              qooo-aaa               
e lare jr    -desMirpio        a            3 o1.5n
t1,~- e3ilin 3'  11.1
sur  roisn 3-  3et5Miiou     3nIsose  prsu  la19.2%(6,1
antLas4 -e5 bnn  Gipetnr.5et 10 millio12n               4.2 
I~~~~oa                         _l                      10. %
I~  ~~Hisn caseooo es!eoooovo o 3
I~ ~ ~ Rsos  perc" et  4- 89.  %' 
I
Une large inajarit6 des entreprimes a uan besoin eu feuds d- roulemeut
cur trols *ols uf4rieur  3 mlllons et presque la *oltl6 (46.2%)
estLue sea besolu 6qupement entre .S et 10 miflions.



149
O tlS   VONs PRINCIPAU  SAILERs DE RONDR CS CINN CO aNS
Number of cases   29                                   Count     Percent
1 * AUTOFINANCEMENT          15      51.7 %
2 - EFFORT ACTIONNAIRES       9      31.0 O
3 -  BANQUE                   5      17.2 %
4 a EPARGNE                   1       3.4 %
6 -  STRUCTVRE D'APPUI        2       6.9 8
7 -  AUTRE                    1       3.4 %
OUELS ONT  ETe VOS PRINCIPAUX  E3AILLEURS
017: ZZS VOS HEMM   D4Um ASSOCIAT,* 0tION l 2EARNENDO RDI  UD GRN
Ie - OU                       4       13.8Z ^_
go'
2D   -    NO                         2        6. 
Total                               29     1000
0172 ETIES VOUS        MEMORE D'UNE ASSOCIATION DPRN.D   RDTO   EGRNI
Numbec    Percent
sos
1-   OUI                          4      13.8 %
2 -  NON                         25      86.2 %
Tiotal                           29     100.0 %
:If Lsing cases - 0
Response percent - 100.0 %
ETES VOUS MEMI!RE D 'UNE ASSOC IAT I ON
0 *_~d. 03 _*-Ff U 03 &AiUI
so
L Yauotinancoment  et   les                 -   - ;s
_p       ,u de    ,n ', p.- -, .,, .. . ,
pan tombi.saacm.,asst oi     ffas   osation 4nara,dec6itou de garant lo.
pa. .-brs  n. asoito   'pru, doc6i   ud  g.r. ,.



150
-   A!l, DMM RocIET3 DE GARANTIE HMUTULT
Number of cases - 29                                    count     Percent
1 - EPARGNE                   S       17.2 %
2 - CREDIT                    15      51.? %
3 - GARANTIE                 26       89.7 %
4 - AUTRE                      3      10.3 %
QUE FAIT UNE SOCIETE DE CAUTION MLUTUELL
so
*olON .o l                  ILAPk  I a 
Tota                                 29 100
Misn  cases              wr 0r
ETEs   VOUS A   RE  AADEERERR    UNmEr SOCeren
cmw O^Urt                      2800.6   96.60j^" calW
'0
Repn  pret  100
so
4.
go~~~~u
tou020 ETES pVOS A  ADHERER             NAre r    POIErE
2-   NO                            2.        .4
e  *O _    Missin  cases * 
46_
39% d-s persoznus savent gue la uoc6t6 d- garant$e mutuelle f-$t un-n
garant$e i *a$s la .ait6 p-ns- quell.- fait *usu d du cr4dLt. Pr-sque
tout-a soint pr3tes  adh6rer & e-tte soci6t6.



151
021&t PaRE  ADUZSLON                      Number    Percent
1    5000 F                        9      33.3 %
2 -  10000 7                        5      18.5 %
3 -  20000 F                        2       7.4 %
4 -  25000 7                        6      22.2 %
5 .  50000 F                        5      18.5 %
Total                              27     100.0 %
Mlsslng cases - 2
Response percent - 93.1 %
MONTANT  D-ADHESION
as.
an
aug _oo .ea                      suo       u0
0218: COTISATION MENSUELLZ                   Number    Percent
1 a  50007F                        11      47.8 %
2 -  100007P                        7      30.4 %
3 a  20000FP                        4      17.4 %
S     50000?                        1       4.3 I
Total                              23     100.0%
Hissing case. - 6
Response percent *79.3 
COT  SAT  ON MENSUELLE
so
l~~~~~~~~s I on              1| an wfvw I I           iSl ~~wG
I  U  .__                                | S    
a.oo                  soo       woo        oo        oo
a. ~ ~ ~ r  *__      e"e^
02B   OIAIO   ESEL.Nme                                ecn
1      00F                             1       4. 



152
021A1 PAXT ADHESON                       Number    Percent
1 -  5000 F                         9       33.3 %
2 -  10000 F                        5       18.5 %
3 -  20000 F                        2        7.4 %
4 -  25000 F                        6       22.2 %
5=  SOOD OF                         5       18.5 %
Total                              27      100.0 %
Missing cases a 2
Response percent = 93.1 %
MONTANT D ADHES I ON
'U
So
a'
0218: COTXSATrom MENSUELLE                    Number    Percent
I -  5000 F                        11       47.8 %
2 -  1000QOP                        7       30.4 %
3-=  20000 P                        4       17.4 3
5    50000F             11                   4.3 %
Total                              23      100.0 %
Missing eases - 6
Response percent    79.3 %
COT I SAT ION MENSUELLE
so
so
qa
I. u.t tin.. BiI 0   C-      '      - Ia  a



153
ANNEX 8A
Page 1 of 2
SEEAL
PROMET DE TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L'EMPLOI
PROGRAMME DE FORMATION POUR LES BENEFICIAIRES
Ternes do Referenc
Prdsentation
1.    Le Projet de Travaux d'Inter8t Public pour l'Emploi a etd initie par le Gouvernement du
Sendgal avec l'appui de l'Association Internationale pour le Developpement (IDA).
2.    Les objectifs et domaines d'intervention du Projet sont ddfinis dans le Manuel de Procddures
de l'Agence (AGETIP), structure d'execution dudit Projet, crEee sous forme d'association de droit
prive et reconnue d'utilite publique.
3.    II s'agit d'un projet de generation d'emplois dont le but vise est d'aider l'admin'stration
publique, les communes, secteurs et collectivites locales du Senegal a entreprendre des
investissements pour la construction, la rehabilitation et l'entretien des infrastructures publiques ainsi
que des travaux de nettoyage et d'embellissement du patrimoine public.
4.    Les projets I executer par I'Agence devront emaner de la commande publiqueprincipalement
dans les localitds urbaines. Les projets retenus seront finances a 50% par l'Agence qui sera par
ailleurs chargee de l'execution I 1'entreprise suivant le principe de la maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee.
S.    Pour aider les beneficiaires I preparer des dtudes de faisabilite des projets qui lui seront
soumis, l'Agence sollicite les services d'un consultant pour lui proposer un programme de formation
pour les beneflciaires.
Misso
6.    Les tAches I entreprendre dans le cadre de cette mission sont les suivantes:
(a)    Recenser, dans l'espace urbain, tous les beneficiaires pouvant soumettre des projets
a financer par l'Agence. Est designe sous le terme beneficiaire, toute institution ou
collectivite publique, proprietaire & titre public, d'ouvrage pouvant fire l'objet
d'interventions de l'Agence. Ces beneficlaires peuvent etre des Ministeres et
dmembrements de l'Etat, des provinces, communes, secteurs et quartiers, des
Organisations Non-Gouvernementales, etc...;
(b)    Elaborer un programme de formation pour aider les bdndficiaires I identifier et
prEparer des Etudes de faisabilite des projets qui seront soumis a I'Agence, et une
m4thodologie de mesure des performances. Ce plan devra s'attacher I definir des
activites de formation, les supports subsequents comprenant notamment:



154
ANNEX A
Page 2 of 2
-      L'organisation de seminaires comprenant au moins 10 personnes pour chaque
categorle de b6nefciaires, sur des themes suivants:
- les criteres d'eliglbilite
- les procedures de selection des projets
- la maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee
- le processus de passation des marchds
- le rdle et la selection des maltres d'oeuvres
- le crittre de selection et de classement des entreprises
- les modalites de paiement des ddcomptes, etc.
;  -   Proposer I l'Agence de monter des activites de nature I creer une dmulation
entre les beneficiaires. Ces activites pourraient concerner a titre d'exemple
la publication dans la presse locale des projets prdsentds et retenus par
beneficiaires, du proces-verbal de la commission d'attribution, etc....
(c)    DEgager, b partir de I'experience dans d'autres projets autonomes, des possibilites
d'intervention de l'Agence et dresser par beneficiaire un catalogue de sous-projets
pouvant Otre soumis I l'Agence; et
ANNMOCSAN



155
ANNEX 8B
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACTY BUILDING PROJEC
PROGRAM TO INCREASE GRASSROOTS PARTICIPATION
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.    The Public Works and Capacity Building Project includes a program cf information
dissemination and conscious raising among the population at large and the beneficiaries of
subprojects in particular. This program is seen as an important tool in (a) improving
communication between the grassroots and the local authorities; and (b) in increasing the
commitment of direct beneficiaries to maintain the civil works or continue the physical
services executed under the subprojects.
2.    The program will contain the following activities:
(a)    a series of sample surveys in selected cities and urban neighborhoods before
and mid-way through project implementation. These surveys will help
ascertain the priority needs of the local population and will help identify
subprojects;
(b)   local meetings, before and after subproject implementation, with the leaders of
beneficiary neighborhoods and representatives of local groups. These
meetings will present the philosophy and modus operandi of AGETIP and the
objectives of the subprojects and will encourage the support of the population
to maintain or continue the relevant works or services of the subproject; and
(c)    a multi-media campaign throughout project implementation, which will
emphasize the importance of health and sanitation and the benefits to be
derived from responsible behavior and hygienic practices.
Qgut Required
3.    These activities will be outlined in an Action Plan to be prepared by a sociologist
under the supervision of the Director General of AGETIP. The principal responsibilities of
the sociologist are:
(a)   to organize and prepare the sample surveys. This includes the elaboration of
the sampling method, the identification of the sample; the design of the
questionnaire, the training of survey-takers, and the analysis of survey results;
(b)   to organize the local meetings. The expert will prepare the way for these
meetings by contacting the key leaders and representatives of the selected
neighborhoods in order to gain their support. More specifically, he will



156
AMNIXi8B
Page 2 of 2
define the agendas, identify the speakers, prepare relevant documents to be
distributed, organize any sketcher deemed necessary to promote grassroots
involvement, and prepare short minutes of the meetings. If necessary, he will
participate in and stimulate the discussions;
(c)   to elaborate the themes and messages for the media campaign. Given the
popularity of radio broadcasts, the expert will determine the optimal time to
reach the bulk of the population, and prepare concise and simple messages
which address and are sensitive to the concerns of the local population. He
will also make arrangements for periodic TV spots, which will illustrate the
works of the AGETIP and other major events during project implementation.
He will prepare different notices, highlighting different themes on hygiene,
clean environment, etc., and will recommend logos for other promotional
needs, such as T-shirts, caps, etc.;
(d)   to prepare an implementation schedule for the above activities, in keeping with
the general implementation of the project; and
(e)   to identify and recommend specialized firms, as necessary, to carry out the
different activities of the Action Plan.
Profile and Duration
4.    The sociologist should have: (a) experience in communication methods appropriate at
the grassroots level; (b) first-hand experience in carrying out and analyzing surveys,
particularly "open-end" surveys, and training skills to train survey-takers in this method; and
(c) good communication skills, particularly to gain the confidence of local leaders and to
convey clear and simple messages to the bulk of the population. Given the nature of his
intervention, the expert must be familiar with local customs and practices and have knowledge
of key local languages.
5.    The duration of the consulting services is about six months over the period of the
Project.
ANNEXSB.SEN



REPUBLIC OF SENEAAL
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EDPLOIMEUT PROJECT
Estlmated Costs (net of taxes and dutles)
---CFAF Billion---                  ---US$ Mhllio  --         %       %TOTAL
FOREIGN      BABE
COMPONENTS                   LOCAL   FOREIGN       TOTAL         LOCAL   FOREIGN      TOTAL  EXCHANMG    COSTS
1. PUBLIC WORKS                        11.9         3.8      15.7          42.8       13.5       56.3       24.0%    86.9%
2. PILOT ACTIVITIES                      0.9        0.4        1.3           3.2       1.4        4.5       30.0%      6.9%
3. TRAINING, STUDIES
-Services to contractors                0.3        0.1        0.4           1.1        0.4        1.S       26.7%      2.3%
-T.A. for beneflciaries                 0.0        0.1        0.1           0.1        0.2        0.3       80.0*      0.4%
-Monltoring                             0.1        0.0        0.1           0.4        0.2        0.5       30.0%      0.8%
-Contract management study              0.0        0.1        0.1           0.0        0.5        0.5      100.0%      0.8e
-Mutual guarantee company               0.0        0.1        0.1           0.1        0.2        0.3       80.0%      0.4%
-0rassroota partllpation               0.1        0.0        0.1           0.5        0.0        0.5        0.0%      0.8%
TOTAL TRAINING, STUDIES                  0.6        0.4        1.0           2.1        1.5       3.5       41.4%      5.4%
PPF Reflnancina                         0.0        0.1        0.1           0.0        0.5        0.5      100.0%      0.7%
TOTAL BASE COSTS                       13.4         4.7      18.4          48.0       16.8       64.8       25.9%
Price contlgencles                      0.2         0.1       0.3           0.9        0.3        1.2       25.9%
Parallel-financed works                 4.2         0.0       4.2          1S.0        0.0       15.0        0.0%
TOTAL PROOJCT COSTS                     17.8        4.8      22.6           63.9      17.1       81.0       21.1%
Flgures may not add up due to roundlng.
EST-COST.W 1-
IX3
0 Z



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL - PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYIENT n             Exohaq rate:            278.7
Execution of Poect Componets bv Year
CFAF BILLION                                      USS MILLION
COMPONENT                             1993     1994    t995      1996    TOTAL           1993    1994    1995    1996       TOTAL
1. PUBUC WORKS                         4.8      4.6      4.6      1.7       1S.7         17.1    16.6    16.6       6.0        56.3
2. PILOT ACTIVITIES                    0.4      0.4      0.4      0.1        1.3          1.4      1.4      1.4     0.5         4.5
3. TRAlNING AND STUDIES
-Servicetocontracto_                   0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0        0.4          05       0.5      0.3     0.2         1.4
-T.A. for beaeiloftuOe 0.0                      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.1          0.1      0.1      0.1     0.0         0.2
-Moulorlng                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.1          0.2      0.2      0.1     0.1         0.4
-        tadract               Qldy  0.1  0.0    0.0      0.0        0.1          0.5      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.5 
-Muual gante.compuy                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.1          0.1      0.1      0.1     0.0         0.2          OD
-Gramoawp _dldp                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.1          0.2      0.2     0.1      0.1         0.4
SUBTOTALTRAINING AND STUDIES           0.4      0.3      0.1      0.1        0.9          1.6      1.1      0.5     0.3         3.5
PPF Rdlnolg                            0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.1          0.5      0.0      0.0     0.0         0s
TOTAL BASE COSTS                       S.7      5.3      S.1      1.9       17.9         20.5    19.1      18.5     6.8        64.8
FiSurs nay  t add up de t    -o rounding.
LPanJn
COMP.WKI
0427/92
&14



159                                      ANNEX 9
Table 3
SENEGAL - PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT n
Prolect Financin
(US$M)
COMPONENT                   IDA     0os  MUNICIPALrrIES  OTHER DONORS    TOTAL
1. PUBLIC WORKS                      29.32      7                20               15      71.32
2. PILOT ACTIVITlES                   4.50       0                 0               0        4.S
3. TRAINING AND STUDIES
-Services to contactors               1.50       0                 0               0        1.S
-T.A. to benficlares                  0.25       0                 0               0       0.25
-Monitoring                           0.50       0                 0               0        0.5
-Conc maagement study                 0.50       0                 0               0        0.5
-Mutual guarantee company             0.25       0                 0               0       0.2S
-Grasroot prtipation                  0.50       0                 0               0        0.5
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND STUDIES         3.50       0                 0               0        3.5
PPF Refinanlng                        0.48       0                0                0       0.48
TOTAL BASE COSTS                     37.80    7.00             20.00            15.00     79.80
Pric Contingencies                    1.20       0                 0               0         1.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  39.00    7.00             20.00            15.00     81.00
FINANCE.WKI
04/25/92



160                                        ANNEX 9
Table 4
SENEGAL - PUILIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT 1
AUocado of IDA Codk
COMPONENT                  TOTAL       IDA        TOTAL    IDA
(CFAP Billion)              (USS Milio)
1. PUBLIC WORKS                         19.9       8.2          71.3      29.3
2. PILOT ACTIVITIES                      1.3       1.3           4.S       4.5
3. TRAINING AND STUDIES
-Svico tocontractor                      0.4       O.4           1.5       .S
-T.A. for bIflciniesu                    0.1       0.1           0.3       0.3
-Monitoring                              0.1       0.1           0.5       0.5
-Contract maneu     udy                  0.1       0.1           OS        0.S
-Mutual Suaante company                  0.1       0.1           0.3       0.3
-oramroots participation                 0.1       0.1           0.5       0.5
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND STUDIES            1.0       1.0           3.5       3.S
PPF Refincing                            0.1       0.1           0.5       0.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                        22.1      10.4          79.8      37.8
Price Contingencis                       0.3       0.3           1.2       1.2
TOTAL PROJECr COSTS                     22.4      10.7          81.0      39.0
ALLOC.WKI
0412S/92



161
ANNEX 9
Table S
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PQEC
Projec Blemt    P-.               PY93    I FY94  I  F9    |  F96
Project                                             Para"
ZLIOTimin
S.in;  ffoedivauC     n        x         x                                     x
coumonenb
1) Publio Word                                               x       zuux_         71.32
2) Pilot Activities                               __vw v       v wvw                4.50
3) Tnaining, Studies
-Series to Contacton                                                              1.50
-T.A. to Bcncis                               _                                 0.25
-Monitoring             QSW                                  WV ,                 0.50
-Contract Management Study                                                        0.50
-Mutual Guntee Company                 xxxx  zxziuzzzu                            0.25
-asroots participation                                                     FXXX  0.50
PPF Resfilog                            x                                           0.48
TOTAI.                                    25.0       23.5       22.9       8.4      79.80
(12.0)    (12.0)     (12.0)     (3.0)    (39.00)
NOTE: Totals exlude US$1.2 million in price contingencies.
Figures in parenthes shown IDA-financed amounts.
It is expected that all word will be procured through LCOB.
ANNHX95B.SAR



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TABLEAU RECAPITULATIF DES MARCHES AGETIP
Comparaison - Prix de reference/Prix reJel marche
Offres extremes au 20 janvier 1992
Janvier 1992



COMMENTAIRES
Les Rarches figurant dans ce premier portefeuille de projets ont 6t6 octroy6s sur la base des conditions
d'attribution des march6s pratiqu6s par l'Agence A l'occasion de l'ex6cution des projets test (entre Aouit
1989 et mars 1990).
Ce systeme 6tait bas6 esseittiellement sur la fixation d'un prix de ref6rence tenu confidentiel et la notation
des offres par rapport a ce prix, et A d'autres critAres (d6lais, organisation, ratio de main d'oeuvre).
L'offre la mieux notee 6tait retenue par la commission..
- Une am6lioration du systeme est intervenue A partir du mois de mai 1991 sur demande du Directeur G4n6ral
de l'Agence confirm6e par les missions d'6valuation IDA de mars et avril 1991.
-  L'innovatlon majeure intervenue A  partir du 10 mai 1991  consistant A considerer que toutes  les offres
ayant obtenu une  note superieure A sept (7) sont acceptables. Le  choix devant, dans ce cas, porter sur
le moins disant, des reamenagements sur les criteres de notation ayant 6te operes dans ce sens.
Enfin, et  A partir du  02 octobre 1991, en  application des directives  de la Banque  Mondiale, de nouvelles
innovations ci-apres sont apport6es :
-  les prix de r6f6rence seront communiques ainsi que le bordereau des prix de d6tail ;
-  les rabais sont acceptes  jusqu'a hauteur de 15 %  sur le prix gen6ral et  20 % sur les prix  de d6tail,
seuils en dega desquels des justifications et garanties peuvent etre exigees des concurrents.
;~~~~~~



TABLEAU RECAPITULATIF DES MARCHES AGETIP
COMPARAISON-PRIX DE REFERENCE/PRIX REEL MARCHE
OFFRES EXTREMALES
Janvier, 1992
No No DU MARCHE       OBJET DU MARCHE           PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + D%  ENTREPR.    OFFRE               OFFRE      NOMBRE
_      ADJUDIC.  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUM.
1 IE-11-29/90  R6fectlon Commissariat            8 001 410   7 796 640 - 2   GENITEG   7 385 721 19 051 023   20
de Dieuppeul
2 2B-13-116/90 Curage de canaux a ciel
ouvert a Rufisque
Lot 1                          6 983 577   6 239 721 -11   EGBER            1 822 211 10 443 388   10
Lot 2                         10 945 000  10 912 297 -0.3  GEAUR            4 111 303 17 267 740   10             4
3 IE-6/90         Refection de menuiserie    4 351 700   4 493 077 + 9   CIA                  3 303 000  6 381 592   14
m6tallique et de vitra-
ge au CEM Blalse Diagne
4 2C-71-78-1   Am6nagement places pu-            4 690 250   4 164 652 - 11  ESCO             4 054 750 11 439 100         7
/90        bliques a Thies Lot 1
5 ID-71-78-2   Am6nagement places pu-            8 496 706   9 571 125 + 13  ETB              5 588 927 23 388 800   12
/90         bllques & Thies Lot 2
6 IE-31-9/90   R6habilitation du Cadas  10 666 265  10 399 467 - 3   ECEBOTP   9 193 080 19 387 910   13
tre de Diourbel



2
No No DU KARCHE    OBJET WI MARCHE         PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + DS  ENTREPR.   OFFRE          OFFRE    NOMBRE
- -ADJUDIC.  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
7 IE-21-38/90  R6habllitation Dispen-    4 453 200   4'450 620 - 1   TOMBON    3 504 300  6 864 650   4
saire Colette Senghor                                     TALL
de Ziguinchor
8 1B-31-8/90   Voirie Urbsine de Diour  25 498 500  24 981 000 - 2   GTA            20 952 279 44 568 340   7
bel.
9 lD-91-48/90  Construction du Cadas-   24 824 007  24 101 172 - 3   EGMBTVS  24 101 172 41 360 656  10
tre de Fatick
10 lD-91-49/90  Construction palerie        40 105 896  41 115 371 + 2.5 EGMBTVS  41 002 583 60 929 849  10
r6gionale A Fatick
11 IE-73-122/90 R6habilitation Ecole 1    9 006 145   9 291 681 + 3.2 ETS             7 217 635 13 011 104  15
de Meckh6                                                 NDIAYE
12 ID-73-121/90 Stade Communal Meckh6    16 048 054  15 714 286 - 2   EBES            8 485 522 20 522 343  11
13 IB-93-120/90 Amenagement de places        7 194 100   7 648 000 + 6.3 CETIC        5 507 093 12 026 050   8
publiques a Foundiougne
14 2B-1-22/90   Curage de canaux a ciel   9 945 353   9 993 447 + 0.5 EGBA/Ras  3 212 182 37 451 568  12
ouvert a Rufisque                                         souloulah
15 2A-71-76/90  Curage canaux a ciel         8 929 425   9 746 015 + 9   Inter-    4 612 760 15 696 728   7
ouvert a Thies                                            Hydrogec
16 1E-71-17/90  Rehabilitation de blocs   4 740 585   4 577 962 - 3.4 ESCO            3 956 569  6 631 422   20
sanitaires scolaires a
Thibs



3
No N DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE         PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + DI  ENTREPR.   OFFRE          OFFRE    NOMBRE
_-       ADJUDIC.  MININALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
17 ID-71-70/90  Construction de blocs    12 795 965  13 057 107 + 2   MKI             4 352 369 16 495 493   21
sanitaires scolaires A
Thias
18 1E-71-69/90  R6habilitation du Th6a-  19 208 686  19 605 741 + 2.1 D AND    10 089 500 30 228 171   14
tre de Verdure de Thles                                   PARTNERS
19 1E-41-84/90  R6habilitation du Cadas   7 000 000   6 734 829 - 3   TTCEB           3 479 776  9 875 280   10
tre de Saint-Louis
20 lE-41-83/90  RMhabllitation de la        28 000 000  29 438 165 + 5   EGBTP    17 830 348 37 599 080    8
Perception de St-Louis                                    KEUR
CHEIKH                                      a
21 IE-61-63/90  Construction de blocs    18 000 000  13 811 910 - 23  CITAP           9 438 996 25 228 693   11
sanitaires scolaires a
Kaolack
22 IG-21-42/90  DWsherba4e de rues A            32 V/Wn    36 F/m2  +12.5 COOP.         32 F/m2    87 F/mr2    4
Ziguinchor                 (3900000F)  (4387553F)   .   OUV. ART (3976800F) (10594423F)
ZIG.
23 IE-21-39/90  Rehabilitation de la         2 651 500   2 821 000 + 6.4 ENTREPRI  2 597 375  7 986 400    6
Salle des Fetes de                                        SE I.
Ziguinchor                                                SECK



4
N* No DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE           PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + D%  ENTREPR.   OFFRE             OFFRE    KOMBREI
-   _ ADJUDIC.  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
24 2B-11-95/90  Curage des canalisa-          26 756 050  26 956 050   0   SNIC          21 867 925 40 876 250   4
tions enterr6es
25 18-4/89        R6habilitation de la        90 000 000  93 435 936 + 3.8 CSE           68 340 460 138171636    5
voirie comunale de
Dakar
26 IE-11-26/90  Construction d'un bloc    4 370 760   4 355 405 - 0.3 ECN                 3 838 663  5 491 415   9
dwateliers A 1'ENS
27 IE-12-100/90 R6fectlon de locaux au    5 500 000   5 720 690 e 4   SETEG               3 992 548  6 150 772   6
Ministere de 1'Educa-
tion Nationale                . 
28 2A-2/89        D6sensablement de rues   4 006 F/m2  3 575 F/m3 - 11  SNEA             2 726 F/m3 5 120 F/m3   7
A Plkine                   (9914400 F) (8580000 F)                     (6746850)  (12672000)
29 2B-21-44/90  Curage de canaux A              6 038 000   5 300 595 - 12  COOP.OUV  5 579 574 18 440 650   7
Ziguinchor (Phase 1)                                         ART. ZIG
30 ID-71-13/90  Construction de blocs           3 325 414   3 762 419 + 13  ESCA          2 995 169  7 931 034  11
sanitaires a Khombole
31 IE-3/89        R6habilitation Poly-
clinique de Rufisque
Lot 1                   31 000 000  26 531 475 - 14  SONEPRES 22 636 687 29 000 000  16
Lot 2                    7 300 000   6 257 000 -14.3 EBES.         5 256 470  7 727 908  14
Lot 3                    8 300 000   4 834 000 - 42  GENEQUIT -4 736 200  6 430 733  17
Lot 4                    7 300 000   5 688 850 - 22  CEGES         4 445 635  7 099 240  14
_ * _ s. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



5
N N DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE         PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + D%  ENTREPR.   OFFRE          OFFRE    NOMBRE
-     ADJUDIC.  MINIMALE   M4AXIMALE  SOUWI.
32 2C-11-32/90 Am6nagement A1lees
Sidaty Aldara
Lot 1 : Pavage            65 737 200  57 885 950 -11.9 EGCB        40 705 450 88 760 850   22
Lot 2 : Voirie            63 129 350  57 366 843 - 9   EF CBENA 48 331 700 90 954 170   18
Lot 3 : BAtiment          60 356 475  57 798 100 - 4.2 ESCI        43 092 565 93 666 581   19
Lot 4 : Eclairage         17 980 000  19 890 000 +10.6 GENEQUIT 12 626 052 60 079 240    7
Lot 5 : Espaces Verts    9 199 600   B 686 800 - 5.6 TACKU          7 353 400 20 592 500    9
LIGUEY
33 2B-11-93/90  DWsmnsablement des rues  10 800 000   9 935 128 - 8   SNEA            9 631 160 17 147 120    5
du Bassin Versant de
1'Avenue Cheikh Ahmadou
Bamba (ex Rue 13)
34 IB-11-25/90  Rehabilitation des ou-    7 913 833   7 495 360 - 5.3 ETPBA           7 495 360 30 344 776    4
vrages de captage d'eaux : 
pluviales de 1'Avenue
Cheikh Ahmadou Bamba
(ex Rue 13)
35 ID-11-91/90  Construction de blocs        9 000 000   9 748 630 + 8   NEC          3 146 332 24 619 454   28
sanitaires A Dakar                                        DAKAR
36 IE-11-30/90  R6habilitatlon de blocs  18 000 000  17 347 000 - 3.6 TECHNI-  15 638 985 31 401 879   27
sanitaires a Dakar                                        CON DKR
37 2B-1-201/90  Curage de canaux A ciel   9 744 580   8 741 364 -10.3 ECOPRES   8 741 364 31 336 002    5
ouvert a Dakar
38 2B-1-20-2/90 Curage de canaux a ciel  11 109 030  12 562 365 +13.1 SNIC           12 562 375 24 200 694    5
ouvert a Dakar
x
0



6
No No DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE        PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + D%  ENTREPR.   OFFRE         OFFRE    NOMBRE
-     ADJUDIr.  MINIMALE IMAXIMALE  SOUNI.
39 IE-1-59/90   Stabilisation de trot-   36 962 110  35 002 500 - 5.3 CEGES    23 622 100 36 793 549    7
toirs du Bassin Ver3ant
de l'avenue Chelkh
Ahmadou Bamba
40 IB-11-108/90 Am6nagement des abords   17 000 000  18 531 800 + 9   ESCI         12 327 590 37 456 332    8
de la Radiodiffusion et
Te16vision du S6negal
(ORTS)
41 IA-11-94190  Drainage du Rond Point   36 453 232  31 626 951 -13.2 ETPBA    27 254 051 62 140 424    5
de la Place de 1'OIT
42 2B-11-22/90  Nettoyage des plages de   5 000 000   5 125 002 + 2.5 BERET         1 926 260  8 529 750   13
Dakar
43 1D-73-103/90 Extension de l'H6tel de  13 500 000  12 801 502 - 5.2 ENT. DU  10 652 923 26 933 940   18
Ville de Tivaouane                                       BAOL
44 IB-73-104/90 Am6nagement de trottoirs 18 000 000  18 095 000 + 0.5 SENATRAV 16 609 000 18 648 700   19
A Tivaouane
45 1D-41-85/90  Constructions de blocs   20 000 000  20 842 748  +4.2 EGBTP    16 037 000 33 311 578   10
sanitaires scolaires a                                   Moussa
St-Louis                                                 DIA
'i
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



7
N No DVU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE         PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + D%  ENTREPR.   OFFRE           OFFRE    NOMBRE
_  _  ADJUDIC.  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUM.
46 2C-41-82/90  Rehabilitation de parcs  20 000 000  20 611 199 + 3.5 ENT.KEUR 16 637 260 48 389 666    5
et jardins a St-Louis                                      CHEIKH
47 IB-41-88/90  Assainissement de quar-  29 000 000  20 000 000 - 31  GROUPE   20 000 000 39 458 750    4
tiers a St-Louis                                           SURSAUT
48 2C-41-114/90 Amenagement paysager a   14 000 000  13 827 500 - 1.2 EMCSL             8 538 500 28 421 600   12
St-Louis
49 18-41-86/90  Rehabilitation de la         55 000 000  51 903 500 - 5.6 STI-GIE  51 193 500 66 707 325    6
voirie de St-Louis
50 2B-21-43/90  Desensablement de rues   4 200 F/m3  4 670 F/m3 + 11  TOMBON   1 801 F/m3 10 OOOF/m3    5
a Ziguinchor               (3477600 F) (3866760 F)         TALL      (1491228F) (8280000F)                 o
51 1E-21-36/90  Mur de cl8ture du Dis-    4 057 555   4 849 012 + 19  COOP.OUV  4 034 400  8 178 686    6
pensaire de Lyndiane                                       ART. DE
ZIG.
52 1B-21-41/90  Construction de dalots   10 874 495  10 482 940 - 3.6 SOMER             8 573 900 19 197 674    8
a Lyndiane
53 IE-21-35/90  Rehabilitation des ser-   3 590 931   3 914 115 + 9   COOP.OUV  3 914 115  7 812 751    4
vices techniques commu-                                    ART. DE
naux de Ziguinchor                                         ZIG.
54 2B-11-20/90  Lurage de canaux A ciel
ouvert de Dakar(Phase 2)
Lot 1                  6 000 000   5 462 462 - 8.9 SENICOM  .3 619 209  9 078 508   14
Lot 2                  5 000 000   5 092 185 + 2   GEAUR         3 053 434 13 000 282   14
_  .                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0



8
No No DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE         PRIX AGETIP PRIX NARCHE + D%  ENTREPR.  OFFRE           OFFRE    NOMBRE
.  w  _  ADJUDIC. MINIMALE    MAXIMALE  SOUM.
55 IB-11-60/90  R6habilitation de rou-   69 000 000  62 968 463 - 8.7 ERECA    58 403 263 128667500             8
tes a Dakar (Phase II)
56 2B-11-125/90 Collecte ordures mena-   10 946 125  11 400 000 + 4   ETS             8 700 000 40 338 321   11
geres a Camb6r&ne                                         DEYMAN
Collecte ordures m6na-    8 656 125   7 795 000 - 10  SITRADEC  7 775 000 21 933 079    7
geres a Ouakam
Collecte ordures mena-    5 650 000   5 970 000 + 6   EGMD &    5 970 000 20 670 000    9
geres & Ngor                                              CIE
Collecte ordures mena-   10 861 704  10 080 000 - 7   GENITEG   8 250 000 23 262 321    9
gere a Pikine
57 ID-52-113/90 Bacs a ordures & Kedou-   5 543 000   4 493 970 - 19  ASSE            4 493 970 16 279 400    5
gou                                                       NDIAYE
58 IB-12-111/90 Stabilisation de trot-
toirs de la Rue 12
Lot 1                21 736 650  19 406 075 - 11  ECOTECN  18 852 325 28 613 000    8
Lot 2>               31 382 730  26 352 165 - 16  AFRO-CON 26 352 165 41 310 600    7
TRUCTION
59 10-71-74/90  Rehabilitation de la        45 263 385  46 841 000 + 3.5 CEGES    37 430 720 82 472 600   10
voirie communale de
Thies
60 1B-71-72/90  Rehabilitation de trot-  14 29'. 096  13 258 600 - 7.2 CITAP    11 379 450 49 354 000   12
toirs a Thies               .



9
No N DU MARCHE    OBJET DU? MARCHE         PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE. + D%  ENTREPR.   OFFRE          OFFRE    NOMBRE
__    ___-    ADJUDIC. MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUNI.
61 1E-12-92/90  Amenagement de locaux          6 502 132   7 dO4 749 + 7.7 EGBEV        5 102 240 10 609 545   12
& la DEDT
62 1B-51-46/90  R6habilttation de la         19 900 000  20 667 875 + 3.8 CITAP    17 818 100 22 688 200    6
voirie communale de
Tambacounda
63 IE-92-54/90  R6habilitation de la           6 338 400   8 935 360 + 41  ESTP         8 935 360 10 886 800    6
voirie communele de
Guinguineo
64 IB-61-64/90  Rehabilitation de la         88 998 000  80 752 698 - 9.3 ESTP         46 188 695 12419954         6
voirie communale de
Kaolack
65 IE-11-115/90 R6habilitation de qua-   37 500 000  32 963 439 - 12  VILLA    31 475 405 58 410 992    9
tre pavillons A I'H5pi-                                    AFRIQUE
tal A. Le Dantec
66 1E-11-28/90  Peinture du bloc fiscal  24 981 047  22 874 224 - 9   AII              12 543 052 31 667 134   13
a Dakar
67 IE-61-62-1/  Rehabilitation du Ser-    9 107 174   8 723 544 - 5   EGMBTVS   7 578 385 12 905 864   11
90        vice du Cadastre de
Kaolack
68 1F-41-85/90  D4molition de vieux ba-  31 000 000  25 465 000 - 15  ENT,             19 000 000 69 851 005    7
timents a St-Louis                                         KEUR
CHEIKH
_  .                                   ^ ... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



10
No No DU MArtCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE        PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + D%  ENTREPR.   OFFRE          OFFRE    NOMBRE
-     ADJUDIC.  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
69 1E-61-62-2/  Rehabilitation du Ser-    9 279 027   9 271 077 - 2   ENT.            9 271 077 17 662 196   11
90       vice des Contributions                                     CHEIKH
Directes A Kaolack                                        TRAORE
70 IE-12-109/90 Rehabilitation Section   35 000 000  32 866 244 - 7   EBGC           30 955 435 56 082 894    8
des Accidents du Commis                                   A. FALL
sariat Central de Dakar
71 1E-21-45/90  Rdhabilitation Clinique   1 874 495   1 81'1 775 - 4   BISMILA-  1 666 655  5 419 000    6
Gilbert Noel A Ziguin-                                    HI ENT.
chor
72 lE-81-7/90   Cadastre de Louga            8 500 000   8 037 803 - 5   LOUGA LO  5 330 639 19 095 970   16
73 1B-81-6/90   Refection et extension   20 000 000  19 248 943 - 3.8 CIA            18 770 100 31 469 725    6
de voirie a Louga
74 2C-62-34/90  Arinagement des abords   21 146 272  22 449 161 - 6   SEV            12 517 849 26 950 303    7
la Mairie de Kaffrine
Lot 1 : Amenagement
paysager
Lot 2 : Mur de cloture
75 1E-62-33/90  R6habilitation des Cham  11 703 469  11 796 483 + 0.8 SEM             6 950 000 14 004 688    5
bres froides A Kaffrine
76 2C-71-77/90  Rehabilitation de jar-    9 000 000   9 215 000 + 2   NAATAN-   8 101 669 44 781 834    7
dins publics A Thils                                      GUE
0



No N DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE         PRIX AGETIP PRIX MARCHE + D%  ENTREPR.   OFFRE          OFFRE    NOMBRE
-     ADJUDIC. MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
77 ID-101-56/90 Cadastre de Kolda           23 951 408  23 b24 854 - 13  TECHNI-  23 284 854 67 930 502   8
COM
7! 1D-102-57/90 Perception de Sedhiou    32 786 723  31 749 556 - 3   TOMBON   24 064 484 41 526 836   7
TALL
79 ID-23-107/90 Perception de Oussouye   31 846 512  32 239 448 + 2   ECETP    28 738 462 53 754 295   7
80 IE-71-14/90  Refection Hotel de           2 712 070   2 690 850 - 0.8 ESCO         2 393 400  3 305 500   8
Ville de Khombole
81 IE-61-71/90  Refection dispensaire        3 197 793   2 968 920 - 7   A.A.O.    2 296 835  3 593 024   9               -
de Khombole                                               ART
THIES
82 IE-71-16/90  R6fection Ecole II           8 985.650   9 084 317 + 1.1 MKI          9 084 317 13 237 567  11
de Khombole
83 IE-7A-100/90 Refection d'un Pavillon   4 731 330   5 005 893 + ;.8 ETS             4 615 000  6 245 499   8
d'Hospitalisation A                                       NDIAYE
Khombole
84 1D-71-12/90  Construction d'un            7 366 000   7 388 755 + 0.3 ESCO         7 168 683  9 303 451   9
pavillon d'hospita-
lisation
85 ID-71-10/90  Travaux de cloture           9 945 353  10 829 150 + 8.9 EGMD -  *1l 308 210 15 727 050   5
du Stade de Khombole
xE
0



2
No N DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE    PRIX AGETIP   PRIX MARCHE  + D%  ENTREP.   OFFRE         OFFRE    NOMBRE
_     ADJUDIC  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
86 IE-92-50/90  R6habilitation de la       3 499 000     3 923 280 + 12  EBTP -   2 902 522  4 501 920   6
Matson des Jeunes de                                    FATICK
Guinguineo
87 1D-92-52/90  Construction d'un         12 906 780    13 035 948 + 1  SOGECO   7 738 742 15 936 758   6
theatre de Verdure
a Guinguineo
88 1D-12-53/90  R6habilitation du          3 895 698     3 748 373 - 4   EGCOT    7 738 742 15 122 668   6
mur de cl6ture du
Stade Communal de
Guinguin6o
89 2A-1/90      Curage de canaux a        12 000 000    12 879 330 + 7.3 ERECO   10 798 805 22 111 740   6
Rufisque
90 2C-5/90      Collecte d'ordures        10 800 000    10 212 000 - 5.4 GENITEG  8 580 000 18 258 400
m6nageres a Pikine
91 IE-61-61/90  Refection de blocs
sanitaires a Kaolack      5 672 394     5 674 831   0   EGBTP -  5 286 529 12 419 407   11
KAOLACK
I -   ______________________________   __________________________________________________   _________________________________   __________________   ____________________________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . '
I2



13
N No DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE    PRIX AGETIP   PRIX MARCHE  + Dt  ENTREP.   OFFRE             OFFRE    NOMBRE
_  ___ADJUDIC  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
92 1B-21-128/91 Rehabilitation du          31 822 344    30 598 382 - 3.8 COOP.   30 368 092 36 171 273    6
Stade Municipal Pedro                                      OUV/ART
Gomez de Ziguinchor                                        DE ZIG.
93 2C-21-128/91 Amenagement et embeli    7 520 000         7 588 798 + 0.9 ENTREP.  6 881 165  9 430 545    8
lissement de places                                        IBRA
publiques a Ziguinchor                                     SECK
94 2B-11-117-1/ Am6nagement des             5 111 000      4 800 000 - 6   GIE        2 111 860  9 855 500   28
91       abords de l'Institut                                        SEYTOU
Islamique (Lot 1)
95 28-11-117-2/ Amenagement des            18 967 573    17 707 573 - 6.6 HABITAT  7 430 000 26 748 000   29            _
91       abords de l'Institut                                        2000                                        -
Islamique (Lot 2)
96 20-11-117-3/ Am6nagement des            12 176 923    11 886 423 - 2.4 EGBEV    1 036 500 19 581 150   27
91       abords de l'Institut
Islamique (Lot 3)
98 2B-21-44/91  Curage de canaux a          4 959 000      4 585 009 - 7.5 ENTREP.  3 313 608  7 307 045    7
(Phase 11)   Ziguinchor (Phase 2)                                        ABDOUL.
CAMARA
I|
0



14
No N DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE    PRIX AGETIP   PRIX MARCHE. + Dt  ENTREP.   OFFRE             OFFRE    NOMBRE
-     AJDUDIC  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
99 1E-11-122/90 Rehabilitation et ex    24 000 000    23 216 690 - 3.3 GENE-   17 813 220 37 120 395   14
tension du Service                                         QUIT
de Canc6rologie de
1'Hopital A. Le Dan-
tec
100 IE-11-123/90 R6habilitation du          29 000 000    28 604 449 - 1.4 SHYBA   28 604 449 71 026 175   16
Service de la RMani-
mation et creation
d'un service d'urgen
ces A l'H8pital A.
Le Dantec
101 IE-07-72-79- Construction d'une         36 195 390    38 064 977 + 5.2 SOGECO  31 825 561 65 285 571   13             -
1/90     brigade de douanes
a  Mbour
102 1E-07-72-79- Construction d'une         26 282 330    24 278 167 - 7.6 ERECO   22 899 404 35 650 595   10
2/90     brigade de douanes
a Mbour (Lot 2)



15
N No DU MARCHE    OBJET DU MARCHE    PRIX AGETIP   PRIX MARCHE  + D%  ENTREP.   OFFRE               OFFRE    NOMBRE
-     AJDUDIC  MINIMALE   MAXIMALE  SOUMI.
103 IB-11-58-1/  Amenagement des             47 000 000    43'332 074 - 7.8 STI GIE 28 227 040 80 212 613   24
90       Allees Papa Gueye
Fall (Lot 1)
104 18-11-58-2/  Am6nagement des             15 500 000    15 024 730 - 3   SEM         12 938 630 30 055 135   16
90      Allees Papa Gueye
Fall (Lot 2)
105 IE-71-68/90  R6habilltation du           16 080 304    15 799 982 - 1.7 A.A.O.  14 255 180 20 273 687   16
Centre Culturel Leo-                                        THIES
pold S6dar Senghor
106 IE-21-45/90  Rehabilitatlon de la         1 874 495      1 811 775 -3.3  ETC BIS  1 666 655  5 419 048    6
Clinique Gilbert                                            MILAHI                                        00
Noel de Ziguinchor
107 1E-11-27/90  Reparation de la tol    90 000 000    90 906 200 +0.1  C S E   90 906 200170 850 000    4
1                 ture du CICES(Dakar)
108               Rehabilltation voi-        38 000 000    37 036 250 -2.5  J.LEFEB 18 833 500 56 985 000    5
rie de Tivaouane                                              VRE
T O T A L         2 259 972 680 2 173 132 616 - 3.8                                       1 247
* ;.r~~~~~



179
ANNEX II
Page I of 1
CQNSILTANT SERVICES REOULRED
Type of Contract          Man/Months           Firm            Individual
T.A. to Contractors                  180               X                 X
Training for Beneficiaries           30                X                 X
Project Monitoring                   60                X                 X
Contract Management                  30                X
Mutual Guarantee Company             30                X                 X
Grassroots Participation             20                X                 X
ANNEXIl.SEN
5-1-92



180
ANNEX 12
Supervsion Plan
APPROXIMATE                                        AcFVrlry                                      EXPECTED SKILLS
DATB                                                                                               (SW)
iJnuary 1993         SuoertMiFi2fl
Prolect Launch Worthos
Objectives:
a)   ExpiIn to beneficIabies, enteprises and government. project objectives.  Operations Officer (1)
b)   Detaied workehops on procurement and disbursements.                    Engineer (1)
o)   Review effectivenes:                                                   Disburemeonts (1)
I      Achievement of credh effectivenesa.                            Procurement (I)
_   _________              ii)     Review accounting and management information sytem.            Lawyer (I)
May 1993             Sunervison Mision                                                           Operaon Ofricer
a)   Review project pogreos.                                                Engineer
____________ b) Review outstanding Issues.
September1993 _MSuneryaon IMison                                                                 Operations Officer
a)   Review project progreu.                                                Engineer
b)   Review outanding imes.
Jamiay 1994          Sunevdslon Misaion                                                          Operations Officer
a)   Review project progress.                                               Engine
b)   Review outstanding isues.
May 1994              uvidon Mhsion
a) Review project progress.
b)   Review outstanding issues.                                             OFeration Officer
c)   Review action plan of public works contract nmnagemnt study.           Engineer
September 1994      Joint-BanktOovanmentMid-Term Review
a)   Review findings of Public Work Management Contct and Action Plan.
b)   Review progress in Implementg refonms.                                 Operations Officer
c)   Review overall project progress and adequacy of institutional anuge_me.  Engineer
d)   Review project account, SOE and disbursement.
January 1995         Sudeidon lMiion 2
a)   Review project progres and implementation of recommendations from the
Mid-Term Review.                                                      Operations Officer
b)   Review outwtandin issues.                                              Engineer
.  c)   Review progress ImplementL or, of tefornm in ara of contract management.
May 1995             Suervision Minsion
a) Review project progress and implementation of remommendations from the
Mid-Term Review.                                                      Operations Officer
b)   Review outstanding Issues.                                             Engineer
c)   Review progres implementation of refoem  In area of contmet management.
September 1995       SunervislonMision                                                                                ]
a)   Review project progre  and implementation of recommendations from the
Mid-Term Review.                                                      Opertions Officer
b)   Review outstanding imues.                                              Engineer
c)   Review pogresu implementation of refoms in area of contract management.
January 1996         Final Suevision Mision
a)   Discusson with GOB
b)   Preparation for writing PCR.                                           Operations Officer
c)   Discussion and initiation of preparatory work for  ture project.       Engineer
mTe ncesry Staff Inputs in staff weck (Ow)) to uperni  this project are: even In PY93, six in FY94, six In PY95, and four in FY96.



