Domte tof 
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5741-SE  Type: (PM)
PEAN, L.  / X33092 / J9 123/ AF5IN
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMXENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$39 MILLION  <
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1992
Thi docment has a restrictd distribution aDd way be used by reipients only in the performance of
eir offkicd duties. Its contens may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



CUBMCY EUVALENTS
Currency unit       =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0              =  CFAF 278.7
CFAF 1 million      =  US$3588
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A*DB         Afrien Development Bank
AGETIP       Agence d'Ex6cution des Travax d'Intrgt Public contre le Sous-Emploi
AMS          Association des Maires du Sdndgal
CIDA         Canadian lIternational Development Agency
ESAF         Enhanced Struchtral Adjustment Facility
FED          Fonds Europeen de Developpement
GDI          Gross Domestic Investment
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GDS          Gross Domestic Savings
GNP          Gross National Product
GIE          Groupement d'Interet Economique
(3OS         Government of Senegal
ICB          Interaional Competitive Bidding
ICOR         Incremental Capital Outut Ratio
IPC           nternational Finance Corporation
ILO          International Labor Organization
IMP          International Monetary Fund
LCB          Local Competive Bidding
MIGA         Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
ODA          Official Development Assitce
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PER          Public Expenditure Review
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SAL          Structura Adjustment Loan
SDA          Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SECAL        Sectoral Adjustment Loan
SFA          Special Facility for Africa
UMOA         West Africa Monetary Union
UNCDP        United Nations Capital Development Program
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SECOND BUD=I WORRSiUND EN LQIDYMIEC
CRED1 -AND ERQI SyUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Senegal
Bmfidaer:             nistry of the Economy and Fmnace
Municipalides of Senegal
C odkAiMAt:          US$39 million
Ierms:               Sdard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Eimnciang    :       Government:          US$7 million
VDA:                 US$39 million
Municipalities:      US$20 million
Cofinancing:         US$15 million
TOTAL                US$81 million
lRate of RBunx:      Not applicable
Staff AMM
Report No. 10421-SE
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IPA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLC OF SENEGAL
FOR A SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPOYMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memoranddum ad recomm ion on a proposed
deopment credit to Senega for SDR 28.6 million, the equivalent of US$39 million on sadard
IPA tm  with a maturity of 40 years to help finance a second project for public works and
employment.
PART I: COUY POLICIES AND BANK CROU'S ASSISTAN  STRATEY
2.    Stuca  Characteristics of the Economy.  The Senegalese economy shares many
characterstic with those of its Sahelian neighbors: limited naural resources; an agriculbtnul
producton base that is deterioratn becmse of the adverse effects of poor weather and poor resource
management policies and teciques; a high population growth rate (about 3.0% p.a.); and heavy
dependence on externa funding. The domestic market is smal with a total population of about seven
milion. Per capita GNP in 1991 was esdmated to be US$710. Economic policy in Senega has not
co         for poor resource endowment, and has, in the past, contributed to the laclduster
ecnomic performance through encouraging a large public sector with a record of inefficient resource
utilization, as reflected in the high ICOR. By the usual meas    of social well-being, Senegal has
fallen below the generally poor indicators for Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole Crable 1).
3.    Despite considerabie efmrts at mode n, the economy is still dependent on traditional
mainstays: millet cultivation and cattle raising for uomestic consumption, and groundnut production,
fisg, and exploitation of phosphate deposits for exporL Agricultu  production levels have barely
reached those attained In the period before the 1983/84 drought and average rura incomes are lower
in real tems than in 1960. Modern sector economic acvities, commercial facilities, and socia
services are concenttd in Dakar and the coastal belt, resultig in important interregional diffences
in economic potei and consumption patterns.  h stagnadon of the modern private sector and
slower growh of the public sector during most of the eighties have depresd urban incomes. With
imited near-term potential for economic diversification, Senegal's economy is highly vulnerable to
clmatic vagaries and adverse movements in inernational commodity markets. Lacking the rich
agricutural potenti or mineral resources of other countries on the West African coast, Senegal's
growth prospects will remain modest unless there is a significant improvemet in competitiveness.
With more competitve productive sectors, the economy will be well-placed to take advantage of a
favorable geographical location and an entepreneurial population to export light manfictu  and
services not only to the West Africa region but to European and North Ameican markets.



Table 1. Key Social hdicators
198Q         1990         SSA 1988
opulado (million)                              5.7          6.9           463.9
%urban                                 35.0         37.5            28.0
Growth Rate %                           2.8          2.9             3.1
Pe9ltYb
Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)            46.4         45.5            47.2
Total Fertility Rate                    6.S          6.5             6.7
Obrtbs/woma)
Crude Death Rate (per 1000)            20.8          16.0           15,8
Infant Mortality (per 1000)             14.7          8.6            10.8
Life Expectncy at Birth (yrs)          45.2         48.0            50.6
Medical Care
Population per physician (000)          13.1         17.0            4.8
Population per nurse (000)              2.0           2.8            2.5
% of dcildren immunized                17.0         70.0            n.a.
Primary Enrollment Ratio               46.0         55.0            68.0
Pupil/Teacher Ratio (primary)          46.0          54.0           40.0
4.    Senegal entered the eighties with serious maro-economic imbalances. The original causes
were varied but included the loss in 1965 of the prefereltial treatment accorded to the country's
agicultural exports to the EEC and a series of poor rainfal years in the mid-seventies. Further, in
1976-1978, a fortitous series of good rainfall and harvests and high world prices for commodity
exports (phosphate and groundnut products) led to a short-lived export boom making for a time, the
potal efects of the increase in oil prices. Consumption growth, both by the Government (6.5%
p.a.) and the private sector (5.0%) outstripped the GDP growth rate of just over 3% p.a. recorded
in 1974-1978. The savings rate showed a dramatic decline, falling from 12.3% of GDP in 1975 to
less tm  1% of GDP by 1979, after which it tuned negative. The spurt in expenditure ignited by
the boom was sustained by exal borrowing of the Government, used to finance massive
investments, often in non-productive assets. Between 1975 and 1980, disbursed Government and
Govermment-guaranteed debt on commercial terms increased more than two-fold to about US$452
million.
Count Policies and efrae
5.      Senegal is currently in the last year of a medium term-economic reform program (1985-92)
supported by three IDA SALs (1986, 1987, and 1990), a Financial SECAL (1989), a Trnsport
SECAL (1991), and an IfF ESAF (1986). The objectives of the program have evolved over the
years. Initially, the emphasis - SAL It and mI- was on a generalized effort to correct imbalances
and establish the conditions for suswtainable growth by improving efficiency in the public sector (better
imvestment programming), public enterprise reform, and increasing private sector incentives (price
and trade liberalization) in industry and agriculture. More recently, under SAL IV, the focus has
been on improving the regulatory framework for productive activities and achieving reductions in



-3-
domestic costs through Internal deflationary meawures, and thus to improve competitiveness.
IToughout the period, structral adjustment measures have aimed at providing a  enabling
environment for economic activity (e.g., trade policy and administrative and regulatory reform) and
facilitating a supply response through the removal of economic distortions and constraints. Gains
have been made in liberalizing and stabilizing the economy: macroeconomic balances, specifically
the public sector and extrnal deficit as wJI as overall resource balances have improved markedly
and inflationary pressure has been kept low (see Table 2). Progress has also been made on
restructuring the public enterprise sector and the financial sector, including privatization of banks and
enterprises. These gains remain fragile. External balance improvements have come largely from
import compression and some improvement in the average unit prices of imports while growth in the
volume and value of exports has been minimal. The improvement in fiscal balance in particular tends
to mask serious problems in public expenditure management and an allocation of resources which
does not support long-term objectives. Overall, growth over much of the past decade has been much
lower than the inherent potential, especially in view of the significant amounts of external
development assistance the country has received during this period, particularly in the context of the
structural adjustment program.
6.    Public expenditure management (with the exception of public investment programming since
1985) has been characterized by increasing inefficiency and worsening imbalances in resource
allocation and use. Overall, the recent pattern of expenditures has favored consumption over
investments: the investment share of total expenditure feU from nearly 40% on average during the
early part of the decade (1981-83) to 32% in 1989/90. In real terms, public investment fell by some
30% during the period. But not all activities were evenly affected, with large increases in relative
share for General Public Services (250% over the period), and agriculture. Ihe share of health
pditures increased by 38% and education by 6%, both from a low base, there was also a high
proportion of recurrent expenditure contained in the education and health figures because of the
convention of treating all project-related external assistance as capital expenditure.
7.    Within recurrent expenditures, the downward trend was reversed in 1986/87 and, by the end
of the decade, real recurrent expenditures were back to the level of tie early 1980s. A major cauos
was the lage interest burden arising from the (largely foreign) borrowing in the wake of the
commodity price and oil price shocks in the mid-to-late seventies (para. 4). Within these broad
developments, some trends are worth highlighting: compared to real expenditures at the beginning
of the period, recurrent expenditures on health fell by 26%, on defense by 5%, and on General
Public Services by 9%. The public sector wage bill dropped by 6.3%, but expenditures on operations
and maintenance fell by 24%. In the face of continued weaknesses in revenue mobilization, the
relatively high aggregate volume of expenditures has perpetuated the existence of short-term
budgetary gaps, the financing of which has become the main preoccupation of government, often
displacing medium and longer-term development issues. Furthermore, the manner in which revenues
have been raised, in particular the heavy reliance on high taxation of a shrinking formal sector base
and of petroleum imports, has aggravated the lack of private sector competitiveness. Finally,
isitutional weaknesses in the budgetary planning and execution process has inhibited the use of the
budget as an effective instrument for economic mamagement and spending patterns have diverged
significantly from stated priorities.
8.    Given Senegal's membership in the West African Monetary Union (UMOA), management
of the size and composition of public sector revenues and expenditures is the principal method by



-4-
which the Goverment can affect overill demand and domestic prices as well as the relative prices
of tradeables and non-tradeables. The conduct of fisca policy, as briefly described above, has
frequently had a negative impact on these objectives. For example, the persistently high public sector
wage bill results from both a buoyant demand for labor by the public sector (employment grew by
about 8% in the 10-year period) and high average civil service salaries (on average Senegalese civil
servants are paid nine times per capita GDP compared to three times in a sample of non-CPA Franc
countries). This constitutes a major cost factor for non-tradeables. Public sector wage levels also tend
to drive wages in the formal sector as a whole. Finally, at the aggregate level, the large share o' the
public sector in G3DP reduces resources and increases costs for the private sector. High energy prices
are a ease In point; another source of high costs for the private sector derives from the persistence
of public sector deficits which has meant accumulation of arrears, reduced access to credit, and higher
interest rt for the private sector. At the end of the eighdes, after five years of deflationary policies,
with their inevitable losses in potential output and the poitical difficulties entailed, the
competitiveness of Senegal vis-&-vis its trade partners and competitors had actualy deteriorated.
9.    The red economy has responded unevedy. Savings performance has improved moderately.
But investment has stagnated (see Table 2) and is barely at the level required for mere asset
mainenance. During 1985-90, agricultural output grew at an average of 8.5% from a low, drought
influenced base. This performance, as well as the recovery of the vegetable oil milling sector, was
more than enough to offset stagnation in the mining, fishing, and construction sectors, which had led
growth in the seventies. Overall activity in the formal modern m ing sector has continued
to decline over the last few years and growth in tour.sm has slowed down due mainly to the relatively
high cost of this service In Senegal. Overall growth, as measured by real GDP has averaged about
3.4% anualy during 1985-90 compared with the average of 3.2% over the first half of the 1980s.
10.   The pictre that emerges is that of an economy trapped in an unsible, low level equilibrium,
with key productive sectors stagnant or in decline. Improvement in competitiveness which is key to
generating new growth remains an elusive goal. This performance needs to be contrasted with the
sinificant amount of external financing that Senegal has received over the past decade. Total official
development assistance grew at the rate of 7.4% over the period, and currently stands at about
US$600 million per anm. Net of principal repayment, per capita assistance rose to about US$91
in 1989 from under US$50 at the tmn of the decae.e. This represens over twice the average received
by other Sub-Saharan African counties. Senegal will continue to need external financing to confront
its development challenges, but it is important that such financing be used effectively and efficiently
in particular to provide the basis for weaning the economy from such high levels of eternal financing
in the fture.
11.   The generally poor performance and weak progress made towards restoring competitiveness
of the Senegalese economy are pardy the result of poor implem on of an adjustment strategy
which requis strong and disciplined Government commiment and a capacity to restrain
expenditures. Key areas of the reform program (mostly related to effective resource mobilization,
agricultu  sector reforms, the restructuring of public expenditures - including the reduction of the
size of the civil service, and liberalization of the labor market) remain to be addressed or
implemented and some policy reforms implemented earlier have since been partly reversed (trade
liberalization). The results also reflect the difficulties of restoring competitiveness through a
substntial and continued reduction of domestic costs in a rapidly changing intenational evironment.
This implies several years during which the economy operates well below its poteni and high social



- 5-
cost, wbile other counties in the region and throughout the world have drasticaUy inereased their
competitiveness.
Table 2. Selected Economic Indicators.
(in % except otherwlse indicated)
_______________________    ~86/87     87/88    88/89     89/90     90/91
Real GDP growth               4.2      4.4       3.6       3.6      1.2
GDP Deflator (au    dange)  _SD        2.5       1.8       1.8      2.1
Ratios to GDP
Exports                    15.0      15.2     15.9      15.9     15.9
Imports                    21.5      20.4     21.3      20.5     21.4
GDI                        13.7      12.9     11.9      12.1     13.1
GDS                         6.9      7.1       6.6      7.4       9.4
Current Acct. Balance       -11.3    -10.2      -9.6     -8.8      -9.2
Budget Balancel/            - 2.6     -2.6      -4.1     -4.3       0.2
Debt Service/xorts           29.7      31.2     31.1      28.7     23.7
1Gros ODA (US$M)            639.5    639.0    642.5    686.0
Of which IDA               114.5    87.5      54.5     50.0
ODA per capita (US$)         95.6      92.7     90.5      90.0
Oveall fiscal balance, cashibas, exclng grants.
12. _ rowh __es_ndEcnomicI              . In the meiwn:rm, even auming reasonably
favorable developments in climate and terms of trade, the Senegalese economy can be expected to
grow only marginally faster than the population. The physical constraints to development are not
amenable to change in a medium-term perspective: improved soil and water resources management
can affect agriculural production only gradually; mineral and fish resources are eurrentiy exploited
at near-optmm  rates; and posiuive results from implementng the recently-articulated population
policy will come in the longer term.
13.   Economic projections of the most likely development scenario - involving adequate rainfal
(drought is an ever present risk), more efficient investment and faster      usual growth of non-
lraditional exports as a result of policy reforms under implementation and further debt relief - show
modest GDP growth of about 3.8% per annum in the 1990s. If, contrary to the assumptions
underlying these projections, the implementation of the reform agenda slows down or stagnates and
if, as a consequence, external financing from donors were to drop to half (or less) of current levels,
GDP growth could be no higher than about 2.3% per annum (implying falling income per capita)
even with favorable rainfal and commodity prices. More vigorous efforts to address the
compeWtiveness issue and to implement the reform agenda would, on the contrary, lead to faster
growth.



-6-
14.   In the bNgKr tm, Seegal's development potential continues to depnd on five fators: (a)
an improved framework for intenational trade and continuing prosperity in OECD countries; (b) a
much Improved domestic business enviroment conducive to private investment, including foreign
ilvestment; (c) a productive, skilled labor force; (d) an early reversal of population growth trends;
and (e) successful regional integration. If these conditions can be met, Senegal could take advantage
of Its location, climate, and entrepreneurial population to develop expor of light manfctr  and
high-valued agro-industrial products and services.
15. The achievement of the growth targets ia para. 13 is predicated on favorable supply responses
In agriculture and industry and on the capacity of the economy to generate resources for rehabilitation
and new Imestment. For the major export crops, as well as ior raifed food crops, technical,
Isthutonal, and environmental factors stUl represent important obstacles. Prospects for epanding
fishing are limited. Finally, the expansion of the industrial sector will rely to a large extent on the
revival of private sector activity and on the response by domestic and foreign investors to industrial
incentives and to reduced costs of factors of production.
16.   Continued investments in human resources development, in particular in education and health,
would be required to create the productive labor force essential to long-term growth. In both sectors,
adequate resource mobilization and cost containment through increased efficiency in service delivery
and resource allocation should improve the quality of and access to basic services. Finally, sustining
any improvemens in real per capita income will hinge on the ability of the Government to deal
effectively with the difficult problem of rapid population growth.
17.   The Government's povert alleviation strategy aims at improving access to key social
services such as primary education and primary health, as the most cost-effective way of having a
beneficial inmpact on the income-earning abilities of the mass of poor people generally located in rural
areas but, increasingly, also in the low-income communities in urban zones. The policy has found
concrete expression in three major programs:
(a) a primary education project financed partly by IDA aims to increase resources
allocated to prhmary education especially in rural areas. The program has indeed
achieved significant operating economies through redeploying trained teachers from
administrative jobs, instituting multi-grade teaching in rural areas and double-shifts
in urb  areas, and increasing the autonomy of regional school adminita. ITe
overaUl impact on primary school enrollment rates has been negligible, however,
given the relentless increase in school-age children and the slow rate of infirstructure
construction. Recendy, Government has put increased emphasis on systematizing on-
going, NGO-upported efforts in adult literacy by creating a Ministry with
responsibflities for promoting literacy. So far, the Ministry's operational reach has
remained limited.
@) expanded primary health care through the expansion (on a national scale) of a
hierarchical system of health services delivery (village health posts with trained
nurses, supervised by doctors based at district headquarters where there is a health
center, with several health centers under the planning and management direction of
a regional hospital's chief medical officer). The network is based on population
norms and, under an IDA-assisted health project, an effrt has begun to meet



-7-
staftbig, equipment and budgetary allocation norms for each level. In recent yers,
there has been a shift in health resources from hospital-based care to pdmary care
and from Dakar to the regions. It is too early to judge if there has been a significant
improvement in the health status of the poor as a result of this reorganization and
resource re-allocation.
(c) targeted programs of employment-creadon and small-enterprise promotion,
principally through an Employment Fund for unemployed school leavers, returning
migrants, and displaced former public sector workers affected by economic reforms;
and through a Public Works Program with the dual purpose of rehalilitating urban
infrastructure while providing short-term employment opportunities and training for
small, indigenous construction sector companies and their employees. Ihe first has
had a poor record in terms of the long-term viability of the enterprises created or the
effective cost per job created. The second, initiated with funds provided under an
IDA Credit, has had much better success in meeting its objectives; in addition, it has
pioneered expedited methods of contracting and payment which have made possible
the participation of small enterprises which would otherwise be ineligible or
financially incapable to benefit from public sector contracts.
18.   A household socio-economic survey is underway, whose findings, expected in May 1992, will
help Government to better design and target its poverty-alleviation programs. But even without the
benefit of the results of a detailed survey, it is clear that the tasks facing the Government are
enormous. Social indicators in Senegal have steadily faUen behind low Sub-Saharan Africa averages
in the last decade. Even with a major restructuring of public expenditures and improved efficiencies
in the delivery of services, Stnegal will still need increased resources to move towards parity with
similarly-situated countries.
19.   The integration of women in development programs is a Government objective, as reflected
in the institution of a Ministry for Women and Family Affairs. A modernized family code formally
recognizes, for the first time, married women as having property and other economic rights
independently from their roles as mothers, wives, or daughters. Maternal and infant health programs
have received funding largely from NMOs and income-generating activities targeted at women have
been included in several Government-sponsored programs, including the IDA-supported Small Rural
Operations project and a USAID-supported credit program. However, much remains to be done.
In agreement with Government, the Bank has recendy completed an assessment of issues and
problems in gender and development. Discussions are on-going with the aim of making developmrau
strategy and planning more gender-ensitive.
zo.   Enviromnental concerns in Senegal center on the effects of rapid population growth on
urban and rural and ecologies. In the urban context, the problem is that of both household and
industi waste disposal and the capacity of the sanitation infrastructure to cope with the increasing
demands of economic activities and larger populations. Any long-term solution would need a strong
institutional locus for its effective implementation. The Government is interested in fosteing
competent and financially sound loc. government structures. The Government's commitment to
decentalization is concretely expressed in the "communatEs rrales", and in municipal government
structures. Physical planning and the organization of environmental management functions, such as
waste disposal and sanitation, have lagged behind the rapid growth of urbanization, especially in the



-8-
Dalkr region. A water and waste disposal master plan for the urban centers was complete in 1990
and the resultant investment program discussed at a donors round table later the same year. Under
a third water supply project currently under preparation, ID   fiuancW support is planned for the
potable water and waste disposal needs of the Dakar metropolitan area through at least the urn of
the century. Beyond that, Government has begun to seek support from the donor commnity for the
early planning stages of a major aqueduct project (Canal de Cayor) which will also have agricultura
uses. The main issues in the water and sanitation sectors relate to water tariffs (some users are
subsidized, the public sector does not pay its bills regularly and is a heavy user of water, and poor
urban households cannot afford the developmental costs of classic house-to-house connections) and
to the ownership and management of the water supply parastal, SONEES (Socit Nationale
d'Exploitation des Eaux du S6ndWal, the privatization of which is under consideration).
21. In the rural sector, with the expansion of groundnut growing into marginal areas, the increase
in demand for wood for household energy and for construction, and periodic droughts, the delicate
balance that sustained traditional crop production systems has been broken. The loss of forest cover
to fuelwood demand has hastened topsoil erosion by wind and water and has reduced the moisture
retention capacity of most soi's. Rains, when they do come, are just as likely to accelerate erosion
and leach out remaining nutrients as to provide the water needs of planted crops. Both the colonial
system and its succcssor regimes have tended to favor crop production. This has resulted in the
alienation of significant aaeage of traditional grazing lands to crop production (most recendy when
the sylvo-pastoral zone of Khelkom was assigned to a religious brotherhood for crop production
purposes, without the consent of existing pastoralist groups). The overall result has been overgrazing
in the narrow, North-East zones to which cattle-raising has been confined. A revised forstry code
has been completed and is expected to become law by Fall 1992. The IDA-supported pilot project
in Natural Resource management includes attempts to promoe greater loal paricipation in land use
decision-making. The ultimate objective is reforms of land tenure systems, which should encourage
more sustainable farming practices that, for example, recognize the shortening of fallow systems and
so encourage investment In on-farm investments to reduce or retard soil erosion and the incased use
of organic fertlizers to restore soil fertility on intensively farmed plots.
22.   PubUc sector nagement has become an area of increasing concern to Government. In
the past, frequent changes in personnel at the policy making ministerWi level brought in their wake
changes in emphasis or priorities. Recendy, public sector management initiatives have been
consolidated under a Ministry for Government Modernization. Already, a clearer sense of purpose
has emerged, reflected in more focused objectives for the on-going IDA-supported Development
Management now placed under this ministry. The principle guiding the Government's public sector
management strateg is to modernize existing functions by using state-of-the art techniques and tools -
- including office technology - and to improve ways of measuring performance. The approach is
to adapt or import workable solutions either from the private sector or from more progressive
administrations elsewhere, not to rely on organizational redesign and technical assistance. This new
approach will build on the results achieved under three IDA-financed projects in improving several
key functions (debt management, project planning, customs and income tax administration, personnel
management in the civil service and the management of the portfolio of companies owned or
controlled by the state). More generally, institutional development and capadty building,
especially for policy making, require greater attention. The Government is aware of these needs and
the Bank's strateW will help to address them through various means: O) close supervision of relevant
on-going operations; (ii) proposing Senegal as one of the focal countries for the African Capacity



-9-
Building Foundation; and (lii) using the recently approved Institutional Development Fund to help
Government prepare a comprehensive instituonal development strategy. Besides, Government
nstitutions, such a strategy would also aim at improving the policy making capacity of key groups
who play an important role In shaping economic policies (university, professional associations,
unions, etc..).
23.   Until recently, Govement's approach to private sector developnent was to concede, often
bowing to pressures exerted by donors, that the regulatory environment was too burdensome and
rigid; deregulation has thus been tentative, timid and grudging. Significant changes have occured
in the past two years, pardy as a result of the discrediting of socialist planning methods with the
collapse of the erstwhile eastern bloc economits. A more important factor has been the deep distress
of both the parastatal sector and the monopolistic industriat structures that constted the modern
private sector in Senegal. The most tangible result of this change has been in the rapid progress
made in the privatization program since November 1990: all but three of the signifcant publicly-
owned enterprises that had been in the process of privatization since 1986 have now been sold or
liquidated. In addition to the acceleration in the privatization program, institutional reforms in the
labor market, in deregulation, and investment incentives are continuing.
The Status of the Poicy Dialogue
24.   Senegal has evolved a corporatist society with a thriving tradition of trade unionism and a
large, self-confident civi service, originally designed for a colonial territory six to seven times larger
in population than present-day Senegal. Among other consequences, this tradition makes change of
any kind subject to a consensus which, in the area of strong economic adjustment, has proven elusive
so far. In particular, policy changes perceived as likely to have an adverse impact on unionized
workers or civil servants have been very difficult, at times impossible, to achieve. And yet, given
the large and central role of the public sector and given the imperative to improve competitiveness
through intenal deflation, most of the more significant policy reforms will require adjustments that
affect civil servants and trade unionists. Ihe Bank's policy dialogue has been conducted in this
context, with halting progress over the past two years as short-term financing concerns have come
increasingly to the fore. Three areas, all .dated to these difficult questions, have tended to dominate:
() pubUc expendite effectiveness: of particular significance have been the civil service wage bill
(with its impact on expenditure composition and wage levels in the economy) and the efficiency of
higher education expenditures; (ii) labor market reforms necessary to introduce flexibility; and (iii)
price administration: markets for such key goods and services as basic wage goods (rice, sugar,
bread and cooking oil), the principal agricultural commodity (groundnuts), and energy are stil largely
controlled by a government which, out of respect for a long-standing political tradition, has felt
unable to alter this situation.
25.   To gain a better understanding of the Government position and to move the dialogue toward
long-tm  development questions, a Bank team met, in early Jamnary 1992, with the Cabinet for a
3-day seminar on economic policy. The seminar provided the occasion to clarify differences in
approach and to reach a common understanding of the larger context in which the Senegalese
economy has to develop. The Government was able to take full measure of the trade-offs involved
in pursuing its development priorities. One of the first results of the seminar has been in education
policy where Government has undertaken to sponsor a public debate on how to reform the higher
education sector, hitherto a taboo subject. Progress is also being made on the package of agricultural



-10-
sector reforms.
Countr Lending Straeg anW Priorities
26. As of February 29, 1992, the Bank Group had approved 98 operations in Senegal for total
commitments of about US$1.2 billion, consisting of 66 IDA credits (including three Special Fund and
two SFA credits), 20 Bank loans, and 10 IFC operations. To date, 46 credits and the 20 loans have
been fully disbursed. Of the 20 operations still under disbursement, four (SAL IV -including
supplement, the BankinglFinancial SECAL and the Transport SECAL) are adjustment operations.
The rest are divided between agriculture (four), infastucture (four), human resources development
(four), industry, telecommunications and energy (one each) and a Technical Assistance Project.
Table 3. Conmosition of IDA Conunitents, FY87-91
U1S dlion
Agriculture                      120.9         26.0
Industry and Energy               33.0          7.0
Infrastructure                   106.7         23.0
Human Resources                   64.0          14.0
Adjustment (SAL and SECAL)       132.1         28.0
Technical Assistance              11.5          2.0
Total Commitments                468.2         100.0
27.   B     assistance strategy in Senegal is guided by three basic objectives: (i) promoting
competitiveness and establishing the basis for self-sustained growth; (i) supporting human resource
development; and (iii) improving management capacity in the public sector, especialy in areas such
as poverty alleviation and the environment, where effective public sector action is a necessary
condition f- successful development.
28.    rgoed Lending Progrm. For the immedife future, the Bank strategy for Senegal will
remain pointed essentially in the direction of supportirg the reforms which are necessary to accelerate
economic growth, while emphasizing investment lending in areas with promise under current
circumstances. The country's meager resource base and its consequent growth prospects are a cause
of increasing concern, b"h for the Government and for its partners in the donor community. With
this in mind, in coming years, operations will be focussed on reducing waste, improving the
efficiency in the use of existing assets and promoting an incentive framework that harnesses and
develops the exisig potential. In paralel, successful efforts will be deepened and replicated.
29. Given thc stagnation and, in some regions of the country, the decline in living standards over
the past decade, it is unreaistic to expect that the required increase in domestic savings can be
mobilized rapidly for rehabilitation and new investment and, particularly, for the efficient operation
and maintenace of existig assets and infrastructure. Thus, substantial concessional assistance wil
continue to be necessary through the medium-term. If the country can demonstrate a sustained
commitment to adjustment and rapid progress, a commensurate program of financial support for
macro and sectoral adjustment operations will remain the major thrust of our country assistance



strategy for Senegal in the coming years.
30.   The base lending program for Senegal currently under consideration for the period FY92-96
includes 10 operations for total IDA lending of about US$300 million, mostly for investment
operations. Adjustment lending would respond to progress in the restoration of competitiveness, with
the share of adjustment increasing with the speed of policy reform.
31.   The emphasis on investment and sector operations, while reflecting an assessment that a
minimum, albeit still fragile, macro-economic environment has bcen established, also reflects a
growing awareness that realization of the economy's growth potential demands a more focussed
approach to sectoral policy reforms and investment requirements. Thus, the assistance would move
from a phase of supporting an improved overall policy environment to one which w(.uld address
supply response measures more directly at the sectoral level and, which, with a clearer link to directly
productive investments, would promote growth more effectively.
32.   In agriltre, planned operations include continued improvement of agricultural services,
a Natural Resources Management Project, which would focus on institutional and legal reforms to
enhance local management of forests, and a pilot operation to encourage on-farm private investment.
Should progress in policy reform allow it, a sector adjustment operation would be based on the
implementation experience of the agriculture component of SAL III, which highlighted the urgency
of addressing outstanding sector policy constraints. The operation would focus on four major areas:
privatization of groundnut marketing and processing; an appropriate, market-based protection regime
for locally produced cereals and reduction of the state's role in marketing and prices; completing the
liberalization of agricultural credit; and initiating land tenure reforms. In order to increase the
likelihood that such reforms will be long-lasting, such an operation would include significant
cofinancing from all key donors who would also endorse the reform package.
33.   In infastructure, the country's road network is seriously dilapidated due to insufficient
allocation of funds for regular maintenance. The Bank's dialogue on key sectoral issues has resulted
in a Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Operation (PAST), approved by the Board in FY91.
The hybrid form of the project resulted from the need to promote important policy reforms
throughout the different transport subsectors. The PAST addresses six major sectoral policy issues:
(i) strengthening sectoral investment planning and project selection criteria, including a sector-wide
shift away from new construction toward urgently required maintenance; (ii) a three-fold increase in
the allocation of revenues te road maintenance financing (Road Fund); (iii) shifting reliance for the
major part (75%) of road maintenance from force account to execution by private contractors, and
improving the administration's maintenance planning, programming and supervision capacity; (iv)
improving the management structure and autonomy of some of the key parastatals in the sector, e.g.,
railway, port, and airline; (v) manpower planning and management; and (vi) improved efficiency in
all subsectors. A follow-up operation is planned. Other infrastructure operations include: an Urban
Development Project, designed to provide institutional development support and resources for
infrastructure investment to municipalities under the fledgling decentralization program; an Energy
Project (m1) focusing on rationalizing distribution systems and rehabilitating existing thermal plants.
Energy sector policy issues such as pricing of fuelwood, the main source of energy in rural areas,
would be tackled through, inter alia, a new Forest Code. A second Public Works and Employment
Project is discussed further in this report.
34.   Previous interventions in education have been directed toward strengthening primary
education, especially in rural areas, restructuring educational expenditures toward the primary level,
and at technical and vocational training to support the requirements of the productive sectors. In
headth, the emphasis has been on strengthening the delivery of primary care in rural areas, on



- 12 -
developing health, and nutrition education, and on developing a coherent approach to the provision
of low-cost  senti  drugs. In addition, under SAL m, the Government formulated a national
gopudaUa policy statement which has since been translated into an operational Population Action and
Investment Program.
35.   Additional efforts are required to develop the socia sectors during this period of economic
adjustment and to improve the interna and eternal efficiency of the resources allocated to this sector.
A health and population services project was approved by the Board in Apnrl 1991. The lending
program includes a follow-up project. Two operations in the education sector are currendy under
preparation. The first is likely to target primary educadon and seek to improve the enrollmhet ratio
by I% per annumr. A second operation, depending on progress in the policy dialogue in the sub-
sector, would target higher education, where the basic requirements are to improve internal
efficiencies, control aecess, and rehabilitate infrastructure. In both instances, the Banks' involvement
will be conditioned by sectoral policy reform programs.
36.   A Private Sector Development Project would aim at consolidating improvements in the
regulatory and financial environment achieved so far, as well as in helping to establish an appropriate
framework for efficient support services for private sector business promotion. Its scope and content
would depend on progress in the overall policy dialogue.
37.   Economic and sector work. Considerable economic and sector work has been completed on
Senegal in recent years. It included studies to provide the analytical foundation for policy and
institutional reforms and investment operations in Senegal, and studies of region-wide developmental
issues for which Senegal was often selected as the country case. A Public Expenditures Review
(PER) was recently completed and should help reorient public resource allocation in favor of the
priority sectors and improve expenditure planning and management. A macroeconomic updating
report was prepared in parallel and should provide a new impetus to the dialogue on macroeconomic
issues with the Government and other donors. Sector work recently completed to support the policy
dialogue includes studies of industrial policy, the informal sector, higher education, health financing,
family planning issues and environment strategy - several of these studies have region-wide
implications. The program includes assessments of gender issues, the environment, institutional
development, poverty, and a review of private sector development issues. In the coming two years
we have programmed work on competitiveness issues, export promotion, and administration
decentralization. We are also undertaking major studies of trade policy and regional integration
issues at the level of the West Africa Monetary Union.
IFC and MIGA Activities
38.   Past domestic policies have produced a domestic private sector which is still small and
oriented mostly towards trade-related domestic activities. Ihe IFC has undertaken 10 operations in
Senegal, of which three are on-going. Two of these operations are in the fishing sector: African
Seafood, a fish processing plant (loan of US$3.3 million and equity of US$970,000 in 1984) and
Africamer, a fishing company (oan of US$3.45 million in 1989). Both are suffering from
management problems and depletion of the resource. The third operation (Industries Chimiques du
Senegal, ICS - a fertilizer plant) received a US$25 million loan in 1982 and a second loan (US$12
million) and equity participation (US$150,000) in 1988. Last year's restructuring is beginning to bear
fruit and, for the fist time in its history, ICS is expected to show positive results in 1991. Because
of the general climate toward private sector activity (para. 23), new investment opportunities remain
limited. The establishment of the African Enterprise Fund has, however, enhanced IFC's ability to



- 13 -
reach smaller businesses, a development which may increase IFC Senegalese portfolio in due course.
In order to coordinate Intervetions in support of the private sector, a °ank-lFC mission undertook
an assessment of the private sector's potential and constraints in February 1992. Its findings should
help to identify contraints to private sector activity and lead to a more sharply-focussed and
responsive strategy for Bank-Group support to private sector development.
39.   Senegal is a member of MIGA. Although there bave been three serious enquiries for MIGA's
underwriting services, no investment insurance agreement has been concluded in Senegal as yet.
Aid Coordination - Relations with the IMF
40.   Senegal's adjustment progran has been supported by a three-year (1989-91) Enhanced
Structura Adjustment Facility of the IMP. The annual programs were successfully implemented,
although serious slippages in 1990 obliged the Fund and Government to put into operation an
unofficial "shadow program* during the 6-month period to December 1990. The program has been
developed in full consultation with Bank staff and complements the IDA-supported SAL III and SAL
IV. In recent years, with the pursuit of adjustment policies, both the level of external assistance to
Senegal and the number of donors have increased markedly, with the result of aid coordination
assuming vastly increased significance. Two Consultative Group Meetings have been held, the most
recent in April 1987. These have both proven very useful for reviewing and analyzing Senegal's
economic performance, adjustment progress, and public investment program, and for reaching broad
consensus on the levels and modalities of external assistance. A third consultative group (CG)
meeting is under consideration. Its nature and content should reflect the results of the recent Bank-
Government seminar (para. 25). Such a CO would draw lessons of the current phase, define a
forward looking development agenda, and establish a renewed basis for the country's relationship
with its development partners, including the Bank.
41.   Under SAL III, procedures were finalized for the regular preparation of a comprehensive
three-year rolling public investment program. Its submission to the donor community has provided
a very useful vehicle for ensuring that development priorities are stated explicitly and that scarce
investment resources are channeled exclusively into high priority programs and projects. The Special
Program of Assistance for low income debt-distressed countries in Sub-Saharan Africa continues to
provide a forum for regular donor coordination. Coordination with the African Development Bank,
which has substantially increased its portfolio in Senegal, is a major objective of the Bank's aid
coordination strategy. SAL IV was cofinanced with the AfDB and so far, four supervision missions
have involved AfDB participation. Coordination with AfDB has been generally good. During FY90
and FY91 donor meetings have been held in the following sectors: transport, water supply, and
energy. Other donor meetings are scheduled for the energy and water sectors in 1992. Finally, the
Bank Resident Representative in Dakar convenes regular bimonthly meetings of donor representatives
aimed at exchanging information and discussing coordination issues.
42.   A large number of NGOs operate in Senegal in tackling important social issues such as
employment (particularly in the context of the Bank supported Urban Employment Project) and basic
needs fulfillment. The Bank has increased its contacts with the NGO community and opened up a
useful dialogue, partly as a result of the experience under the first Public Wortcs and Employment
Project.



-14-
Criteria for Judging Progress
43.   FaManagement. Although some of the factors identified as conditioning long-term
development (paras. 14-15) indicated above are not (wholly) within Government's control
(developments in international trade and OECD countries' economies, external competitiveness) the
realization of the country's development prospects poses a major challenge for the conduct of
economic policy. First and foremost, the recent cycle of stop-and-go stabilization needs to be broken
and structural refbrms to be sustained to engender an effective supply response. Progress criteria
include permanent and significant reductions in public sector spending (especially the civil service
wage bill) and improvement in the quality of expenditures. At present, the fiscal burden on the
modern sector is inhibiting expansion of economic activity, and the prospects for appreciable
increases in revenue to meet needed infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance programs are
limited essentially to increased external grants. The effort therefore has to be focused on cutting
nonessential and ineffective Government services including reducing subsidies to public enterprises;
increasing user charges where there is room; and improving the efficiency of resource use in the
public and parapublic sectors. Tax administration also needs to be improved significantly. Progress
criteria include increased better customs receipts, an increase in public savings, and a resource shift
to the production of tradeables. Specific targets for the next twelve month are those in the Fifth PFP.
44.   Reeulatory Framework. Concomitantly, to afford the private sector the feasibility to use
these freed resources in an optimal manner, efforts to deregulate and liberalize economic activity
should be sustained. In this respect, existing policies that inhibit labor market flexibility - with
regard to both the mobility of labor and the flexibility of wages - need to be changed. The
suitability of the provisions of the revised labor code (which is expected to become law later In 1992)
will constitue a major criterion. In addition to reforming labor market regulations, the Government
needs to simplify the procedures necessary to enforce compliance with legal business agreements and
to acquire and dispose of assets, especially land. Thus, promulgation of an appropriate urban land
reform law will also be a progress criterion. The Bank shall also seek monitor the rate at which
urban and rural land is exchanged.
45.   Financial Sector Development. Finally, the reform of the financial sector policies initiated
recently with IDA and other donor support needs to be broadened and deepened. There is a need
to mobilize domestic savings and to ensure efficient intermediation as a necessary complement to the
development of private sector investment and production. Within the existing rules of the Monetary
Union, the Senegalese Government can adopt and implement policies to make the banking sector
more responsive. In addition to restructuring the balance sheets of the publicly-owned banks and
reducing its ownership shares in banks, the Government can also curb the credit demands of a large
parapublic sector and ensure that its fiscal rules do not distort interest rates unduly. The Bank is also
monitoring the rate of recovery of bad loans from major debtors under the Financial SECAL.
46.   Human Resources Development. For the longer term, the most serious challenge is to
develop a productive, entrepreneurial human capital base with the limited financial resources
available. In education, Government has initiated measures to improve efficiency in primary
education, achieving important cost savings; it must continue, however, to seek additional resources
in order to raise enrollment ratios (to 65% by 1997) from their present low levels. In contrast,
measures to reduce excess spending and refocus priorities in higher education -including reducing
student subsidies and fellowships and stressing quality over quantity in enrollment - have not been



- 1S -
taken because of their political sensitivity. Progress criteria include seeing, first, a Government
sponsored public debate on the future of higher education, and, subsequendy, the initation of a
reform process that, at a minimum, will set rules on access to university education, maximum
duration of studies, eligibility for scholarships, and private operation of restaurant, transportation ad
housing services for students.
47. Managing Natural Resources. Sound management of the natural resources base also presents
a critical long-term challenge to policy-making. Population growth and its distributionbetween urban
and rural areas (and within rural areas between the Groundnut Basin with its exhausted soils and the
potentally more productive Fleuve and Casamance areas) will have an impact on the environment -
- soil degradation (including salinity), loss of forest cover to firewood demand, urban water and waste
disposal. There is an urgent need for the Government to plan its infrastructure development program
in a way that supports desirable patterns of population migration. Agricultural research should be
sustained so that farming methods less destructive of the environment can be developed and
transmitted successfully to peasants. The pricing of household fuels is affected by the present tax
system on petroleum and household gas, which in turn affects the demand for fuelwood. These subtle
and delicate linkages between economic activities (principally crop and livestock production),
population and the environment suggest that the least risky strategy for the management of natural
resources will need to involve local communitieA who are most directdy affected. This will in turn
require clarification of land-tenure systems so that long-term investments by farmers can be made
more secure.  Progress in reversing environmental pauperization will depend critcally on
Government's ability and willingness to provide village communities with the knowledge and legal
authority to participate fully in natural resource management and to set pricing rules for fuelwood that
reflect their social cost. The responsiveness of the planned "Code Forestier' to these concerns will
be an important criterion in this domain.
48. fonulation. Above all, Government must continue to build up its efforts to contain population
growth by expanding family planning services and transforming the social and economic environment
to favor rapid fertility decline (improving maternal and child health, expanding female education,
promoting the status of women, increasing awareness among youth, reversing pro-natalist fiscal
policies).  In this area, performance assessment in the short term has to be based not on
measurements of actual reductions in population growth rates but on the visible political support given
to the population program and on the effectiveness of service delivery modes.
PART II - THE PROJECT
Public Works and Employment Project - First Phase
49.   Introduction. In an attempt to further mitigate the effects of the adjustment program on the
economy as a whole and on youth and the urban poor in particular, GOS is supporting macro-
economic growth policies with specific employment generation programs that are cost-effective. As
overall growth cannot take place without the necessary infrastructures in terms of roads, schools,
dispensaries, etc., the oDnstruction industry seemed the logical strting point for intervendon;
therefore, with IDA support, GOS decided to undertake a public works and employment project in
1989.
So.   fgject ObWectives. The first Public Works and Employment Project (Cr. 2075-SE) was
approved on December 14, 1989 and became effective on March 7, 1990. Its objectives are: (a)



- 16-
t crate, at 1oa temporrly, substi nw employment in urba areas as rapidly as posible; (b)
to improve, through the execution of the works f_anced by the project, the individual sdills of the
workas who will be employed, and the corporate compeves of the firm  that wUl carry out
works so as to deveop their capacity to respond to increased opportnities for sustained employment
afer project compledon; (c) to dmostre the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and test the
pocedures that will enable the public sector to commission such projects; and (d) to undetake
subprojects ta are economically and socially usefWl. Assocated objectives, which were also being
met, Include: (a) avoiding the need to increase the full time civfl sevice; (b) combining the benefits
of implementation methodologies that feature low cost, high visibility and conspicuous impact; (c)
suportig but not replacing other development programs by efficietly execting teir sub-projects
related to infrsructure; (d) using transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures for sub-project
proposals, appraisal, contracting and disbursements; and (e) providing sustainable tecibacal and
managerial assistance.
51.   Insdonal Form. After considering the barriers that small contractors would be facing in
tems of access to public contracts, it was deemed necessary to establish a special agency with private
legal status to implement the project. To this end, an organization called the "Agence d'Ex6cuion
des Travaux dInt*t Public contre le Sous-Emploi" (AGEIP) was created in 1989 as an
independent insttuon, with a board consisting of a Director drawn from the pnvate sector and
represenatives from the National Council of Employers of Senegal, the Union of Construction and
Public Works workers, and the Association of Mayors of Senegal. AGETIP has private legal status
and entered into a Convendon with GOS to execute the project.
52.   Orga inan and Saffig. AGETIP is headed by a widely respected Senegalese executive
who has over fifeen years experience in the private sector. He is assisted by technical and fiancial
directors and by an inte    auditor also with a strong private sector background. The director has
the authority to recruit AGETIP's professional and clerical staff that numbers 20 persons.
Administrative costs have been kept below five percent of the total program amount. Project
management is governed by a Manual of Procedures which is an integral part of the Convetion.
53.   Program Targets and Capacity. In trying to address the issue of unemployment affcting
youth, migrants and unskilled laborers, AGETIP targets, in particular, the small and medium firms
of the domestic construction industry. These firms are negatively impacted by the cumbersome
bidding procedures and payment delays occurrig in the public sector. AGETIP's effectiveness can
be seem in the fact that it has led to the creation of 11,103 jobs with an average duration of 30 days
each. Seventy-eight enterprises won concs to execute 119 sub-projects, among which are 15 youth
groups called "Groupements d'lntre6t Economique" (GIE). ht Is worth noting the large number of
GlEs that have been formed since the creation of AGETIP, an elemen that indicates that the target
group of young and unskilled has been reached. Of the 681 enterprises pro-qualified by AGEMIP,
103 are GIEs out of which 99 were created after 1989.
54.   As part of project preparation, AGETlP undertook a survey of the targeted enterprises and
used the results of the survey to classify and pre-qualify them to participate in the execution of the
sub-projects. The target enterprises have demonstrated an ability to abide by bidding procedures and
attend training programs. About 600 firms of the domestic construction industry have been
prequaified to paricipate in the AGETIP program. Of these 600 firms, 78 have won 119 contracts,
and of these 78 firms, 96 percent or 75 firms are small- or medium-sized. AGETIP has also
prequalified 191 consuldtg engineers of which 97 have had at least one contract with the Ab.ncy.



- 17 -
S5.   Monkt    and Evaluation. In order to better understand the target groups of beneficiaies
(dividuals, firms, municipalities, etc.), AGETIP has co oned a number of sudies to monitor
the issues of labor ratio, wages, cost overruns, completions delays, unit prices, etc. The mid-term
evauation, based on a sample of 40 construction enterprises, has revealed that the labor ratio In the
volume of works fluctuates between 20 and 22 percent for road works, to 25 and 30 percet for
building rehabilitations, and to over 30 percent for street sand removal and the cleaning of gutters
and drainage ditches. Daily wages effectively paid also fluctuate between 1400-1900 CFAF for
service workers, to 1950-2600 CFAP for building rehabilittion and to 2800-3100 CPAF for road
works demanding the utlization of machinery. AGETIP has been able to execute its first portfolio
of an amount of 2.3 billion CFAF with a small cost overrun of 27.5 million CFAF, representing 1.2
percent of the portfolio. lTis must be compared with the public procurement system where cost
overruns amount to 15 percent of origia estimates. On a sample of 64 work sites, only five, or less
than 10 percent, registered completion delays for causes having to do with raw materia and supply
shortages. On unit prices, the analysis indicates that AGETIP has obtained prices that are five to 40
percent lower than those obtained by the adminon.
56.   Achievements. Among its achievements, AGEIP has contribued to the renovation of 27,900
square meters of public buildings, to the construction of 4400 square meters of simple buildings
including schools and dispensaries, to the rehabilitation of 50 kilometers of urban roads and 38,000
square meters of sidewalks, the demolition of 15,000 square meters of old buildings, the cleaning of
37,200 linear meters of drainage canals and the clearing of 122,000 square meters of bushes, the
collection of 7700 cubic meters of sand and to the filling of 18,000 cubic meters of embankment.
It has set up easy and clear bidding procedures which facilitated a large participation of the smal-
and medum-scale enterprises in the program. Small- and medium-scale enterprises have executed
these works within the time framework specified in the contracts signed with AGETIP. (Several
training programs have been conducted by AGETIP so that these firms would have a good
understanding of the Agency's procedures.)
57.   Lessons Leaned. Preliminary reflections on the design of the Public Works and Employment
Project suggest that several things should be done differently to better the product. irt, in the
appraisal of sub-projects, it was suggested that for socia projects, numerical indicators such as
population, number of current and potental users of social infrastrctures, tax collection efficiency,
etc., be used to rank sub-projects. Second, in procurement, on and the evaluation of the contractor's
bids, it was suggested that a post-qualification bid be introduced to take into account the remaining
capacity of the contractors in contract award as well as provide explanations for bids that are lower
by 15 percent from the reference price and to have an additional guarantee. Third, experience has
shown that Government has been slow in disbursing Its counterpart funding and that a strong covenant
linking the review of project batches to the disbursement of such funding would have been persuasive.
Fourth, the training component should heave been designed earlier to enable participating contractors
to have immediate access to training. Fifth, a program to increase grassroot participation should have
been promoted. Sixth, the enviromental impacts of the projects was not taken into account in the
eligibility criteria for project appraisal and selection. All these shortcomings have been addressed
in the design of the second project.
Second Public Works and Employment ProJect
58.   Project Objectives. Based on its accrued experience during the first phase, project objectives,
in addition to public works execution and employment enhancement, include: (a) the continuation



- 18-
and decentraization of AGETIP acties in secondary cities; (b) the development of pilot activities
to test the feasibility of AGEllP's approach in other areas; (c) the organization of training for the
municipalities and the small and micro enterprises engaged In project implementation; and (d) to make
AGETIP a susainable agency covering its oprating costs on a fee basis.
59.   PrjectDescrlon. The credit will finmce a tree-year project consisng of three principal
components.  The first will support the continuation and expansion of AGETIP's  WIic orks
p om  of public facility and infrastructure rehilitation and maitnce in urban areas to be
carried out under labor-intensive schemes by local contractors (US$71.32 million, 88% of total
project costs). The second comprises a program of three gfot activties which include: (a) the
application of AGETIP procedures to the development and management of municipal revenue-earning
infrastructure; (b) a program of to Improve the efficiency of procurement of goods (such as school
furniture) for public purposes, financed from the reorientation of existing government purchases (from
current budget or from projects); and (c) the development and testing of AGETIPtype medcanisms
to support rural investments (US$4.5 million, 6%). The third, a training and studies onent
would support: (a) a package of training services related to work organization, management, and
tenical skills training, to be offered on a voluntary basis to local contractors who will be awarded
contracts under the first component; (b) a training program for local engineering firms and
beneficiaries on the preparation of feasibility studies and technical project proposals; (c) a monitoring
and consulting component in order to monitor closely the progress of the project, to prepare the
transition toward locally supported employment of the target group, to monitor unemployment levels
in areas and sectors covered by the project, and to verify that assets created or rehabilitated are being
maintained by the beneficiariess; (d) a study and selective audit of the Public Investment Program to
analyse existing procurement regulations and practices and to uncover botdenecks impeding project
implementation and design system improvements; (e) a packcage of technical assistance to assess the
feasibility of establishing a mutual guarantee company for the small contractors; and (t) a program
aimed at increasing grassroot participation in urban infrastructure maintenance (US$3.5 million, 4%).
The refinmcing of the PPF (US$.48 million, 1%) and price contingencies (US$1.2 million, 1%)
make up the balance of the total project costs. Further costs details are given in Schedule A,
procurement and disbursement arrangements in Schedule B, and the project preparation timeframe
and principle Bank staff involved are given in Schedule C.
60.   Project Financing. One of the major objectives of the proposed project is to involve
municipalities in the financing process. AGEIIP will share with each municipality the funding of
each submitted subproject. Municipalities benefitting from subprojects executed under the project
will finance 50 percent of the cost of these subprojects. However, since not all municipalities -
especially smaller and newer municipalities - requesting AGETIP's assistance in implementing public
works will be able to finance 50 percent of the works, four exception criteria were established: (a)
comnunities having a population of less than 15,000 inhabitants; (b) communities with an equity
investment of les than 100 CFAF (US$0.37) per person per year; (c) communities with a debt per
capita of 4000 CFAF (US$14.35); and (d) communities having local tax revenues of less than 12
million CFAF (US$43,057) per year. Communities meeting all four of the above criteria will be
eligible to receive up to 90 percent of financing for the sub-projects executed on their behalf. The
Direction of Local Communities will firnish AGETh' with lists of the communities eligible for the
90 percent financing plan and those eligible for the 50 percent financing plan annually.
61.   Incentive; und. In order to encourage municipalities with strong manangement skills, it was
decided to introduce an "incentive fund" (fonds d'incitation). Those municipalities having reserves
in their recurrent budgets at the end of the fiscal year will be able to transfer these reserves to their



- 19 -
investment budgets. IDA will then match the equivalent of every dollar the municipality saved with
the equivalent of two dollars for subproject financing. Ihis fund will receive a global endowment
of US$6 million which should be spread out as follows over the life of the project: (a) US$1 million
the first year; (b) US$2 million the second year; and (c) US$3 million the third year. The Direction
of Local Communities will be responsible for providing AGETIP with a list of communities eligible
for the incentive fund at the beginning of each year.
62.   Project hnplementadon  The implementing arrangements which are critical to meeting the
project's objectves will remain the same, i.e., la matrise dJowrage ddl6gWde (delegated contract
management). AGETIP will continue with its current procedures and be able to avoid the
cumbersome, slow, and inefficient procedures that public institutions follow for calling for bids,
awarding contracts and disbursing, and which result in de facto discrimination against small
contactors. AGETIP's operating procedures and iternal organization, as well as those of its
subsidiaries will include: (a) eligibility criteria for selecting subprojects submitted by local and
central administrations for implementation under the proposed project; (b) procedures for calling for
bids, selecting contractors and vendors (including prequalification if necessary), and awarding
contracts; (c) internal organization for work supervision and control; Ad) disbursement procedures;
and (e) delivery of completed works. Accounts will be audited at least twice a year and resources
will be replenished only upon presentation of properly documented records of the use of funds and
saisfactory audits. The supervision committee of AGETIP will have full authority to propose and
implement any measure that would be deemed usefil to ensure actua fulfillment of the project's
objectives, including hiring and dismissal of AGETIP management and staff.
63.   Project Sustalnabilky. One of the criticisms of this type of project has been that it creates
only temporary employment. The second phase project will encourage the creation of temporary and
permanent employment by expanding the AGETP management philosophy to other sectors. The
sustainability of AGETIP itself will also be promoted during the second phase, as AGETIP will be
involved in the implementation of the construction components of several Bank-financed projects in
education, health and agriculture, and AGETIP itself will be managed on a fee basis.
64.   Rationale jor Bank *nwtwnm. By financing the first Public Works and Employment
Project, IDA has already played a leading role in the rehabilitation of infrastucture in Dakar and in
the main centers of the ten regions of Senegal. IDA's strategy is to support the Government in the
urban sector to promote its decentralization policy. A fourth urban project (FY94) is under
preparation to help the Government test the effectiveness of its decentralization policy, especially in
terms of improving the quality of infrastructure maintenance and urban services. The fourth urban
project proposes a multi-faceted approach to reaching the goals of creation of economic activities and
the generation of employment opportunities in urban areas. Tbis approach includes the following
priorities: a) improved functioning of urban centers and the development of a more balanced urban
network in support of urban-rural linkcages; b) improved urban services delivery through the
implemention of self-reliant mechanisms for provision and financing of these services; c)
development of appropriate procedures to finance priority urban investments identified in the
Municipal Investment Plan; and d) implementation of an appropriate framework to support the
dynamism of the private sector. These actions are closely linked with, and complementary to, the
proposed Second Public Works and Employment Project. Therefore, a second program of labor-
intensive public works aimed at improving the urban environment using private enterises sets the
stage to address some of the policy concerns, such as contracting efficiency and private sector
participation, that will be dealt with in the fourth urban project. Continued IDA involvement as
requested by GOS would help address urban infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation problems



- 20 -
while creating employment and training workers in the Informal sector.
65.   Agreed Actons. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following: (a) dates for
the annual reviews; (b) the exception criteria for municipal project cofinacing; (c) terms of reference
for the contract management audit study and a schedule for an action plan to implement the changes
as recommended in the study; (d) a training program for contractors and beneficiaries; and (e) the
Government's financial contribution. The proposed conditions of effectilveness are: (a) AGET and
GOS will sign a new Convention which will include an updated Procedures Mana and adopt By-
Laws to take into account AGETIP's pilot activities; (b) AGETIP will submit to the Bank a first batch
of subprojects amounting to a total of US$17 million (CFAF 4.7 billion), for implemenmion during
the first year. In addition, AGETIP will submit to IDA another batch of subprojects amounting to
US$2.3 million financed through the Government's contribution; (c) AGETIP will submit an action
plan for the next phases of the training program for the beneficiaries and for qrassoots participation
program; (d) AGETIP will receive in its accounts a quarterly advance on the amount of government
financial contribution to the project; and (e) AGETIP wil revise its accounting system to take into
account the expansion and decentralization of its operations, and will appoint auditors for a period
of three years. The following agreements will be reflected in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the Convention: (a) at all times during project implementation, the Statutes of Agreement of
the Agency and the Procedures Manual must be acceptable to the Bank; (b) at all times during project
implementation, the Directors of the Agency must be acceptable to the Bank and the Agency must
be operated in an efficient manner; (c) the Agency will submit to the Bank the second and third
annual work programns including batches of subprojects financed by IDA, the municipalties and co-
financiers, towalling at least US$16 million (CFAF 4.4 billion) no later than August 31, 1993 and
US$16 million (CFAF 4.4 billion) no later than August 31, 1994 respectively; (d) (i) the Government
will cause the Agency to execute subprojects (other than those finamced by the credit or by other
donors) with an aggregate cost of US$7 million equivalent (CFAF 1.95 biUlion) before December 31,
1995; including intermediary batches of subprojects costing at least US$4 million (CFAF 1.1 billion)
during the twelve months ending December 31, 1993; US$2.3 million (CFAF 641 million) during
the twelve months ending December 31, 1994; and US$4 million (CFAF 1.1 billion) during the
twelve months ending December 31, 1995; and (ii) the Government will make available to the
Agency, out of its own resources, the funds required for the execudon of these subprojects; and (e)
IDA reserves itself the right not to review the annual subproject batches submitted by the Agency if
GOS has not honored its counterpart funding obligations.
66. Envi ronmenal Aspects. An environmental impact study, based on the on-going project's first
portfolio of sub-projects, revealed very favorable environmental results. Among the positive impacts
were reduced water and air pollution, improved traffic circulation, reduced flooding due to improved
drainage capacity, diminished risk of contaminated water and respiratory disease, reduction in
diseases caused by stagnant water such as cholera, etc. For the second phase project, proposed
subprojects wil be subject to an additional eligibility criterion stipulating that it must not have a
negative impact on the environment. AGETIP is also hiring a full-time environmental engineer to
carry out an environmental assessment of its sub-project portfolio. The engineer will examine all
sub-projects pertaining to sand-removal, drainage, building and road rehabilitation, and garbage
collection to determine their environmental impact and make recommendations on how to mitigate
any adverse impacts. The annual technical audits will also include an enviromnental component.
67.   Program Objective Categories. The project's continued emphasis on job creation is an
important component in Government's anti-poverty strategy. It is hoped that increases in incomes
will translate into increases in spending, thus boosting the local economy. In addition, the package



-21 -
of services offered to contractors, foremen and individual workers will further improve the overall
capacity of the construction industry and the individual skill level of the average worker, thereby
stimulating the overall labor market and improving workers' marketability.
68.   ProjedtBenefis. Theprojectwll create low-cost, short-term employmentopportunitiesusing
private sector enterprises in the execution of social and economic public works. It will generate
incomes for many categories of the work force (in the building and construction trades). Ihe project
wi  also help the Government in the area of project management. It will demonstrate the efficiency
of private sector management in public works execution. Subprojects for garbage collection and
sewer cleaning will produce environmental benefits. Concering employment, it is difficult to be
precise about the volume of employment that will be created by the project, but to obtain a national
estimated, one may make two assumptions: (a) on average, 33 percent of subproject contract
amounts will be paid out in wages (including social security); and (b) actual average wages are about
CFAF 1800 per day (including social security); this average wage overestimaes payments received
by workers in subcontracting informal sector microenterprises. On this basis, it is estimated that
about 1,120,000 person-days of employment will be created by the project every year. Assuming
an annual construction period of nine months, the project will create about 5,600 jobs per year. To
the extent that acuala average wages are lower than indicated above, the amount of employment
created would be greater.
69. Risks. ITe main risks concern the continuation of the Agency after the project. IDA will
not continue its support of the Agency under the Government auspices. Specific measures for cost
recovery such as introduction of a service fee by the Agency for execution works are designed to
maximize this possibility. The introduction of cost-sharing by the municipalities is intended to create
the conditions for AGETlP to operate independently of IDA and other donor financing after the
project ends. Other risks are misuse of funds and the fear that the Agency will lose its independence
and its operational efficiency. These risks are minimized by the establishment of an internal control
mechanism and appropriate supervisory procedures by independent engineering and consulting firms.
Political interference will be reduced by strict adherence to the Manual of Procedures.
70.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1992



-22 -
Scbedule A
RUC OF SENEGAL
SECOND EUBI WORK AND EmMPoxh=ENTPRCT
ETMATE OMA   IANIGPA
(US$ MILUON)
COMPONENS              LCAL        FORE           TOAL            FOREIGN
1. PUBLIC WORKS                   42.8         13.5          56.3        24
2. PILOT ACrlVf=                   3.2          1.4            4.5       30
3. TRAINN, STUDIS                  2.1          1.5            3.5       41
-Se vicosto coractr                1.1          0.4            .5        27
-T.A. for befciarid                0.1          0.2            03        80
-Monwiorg                          0.4          0.2            05        30
-Contc nanotm  dy                  0.0          0.5            0.5      100
-Muta    apan       y              0.1          0.2            03        80
4. assoo paria tion                0.5          0.0            0.5       0
PPF Refinan _ing                   0.5          0.0            0.5      100
TYrTAL BASE COSrS                 48.5         16.3           64.8       26
Pre Contgenies                     0.9          0.3            1.2       26
Poalcl-Fi:ned Wo*s                 15.0         0.0           15.0       0
TOTAL PROJECT COSIS               64.4         16.6           81.0       21
Fur may not add up to do touadivg.
Finacing Elan
LOCAL        FOREION        TOTAL            % OF TOTAL
PROJET COST
Governme                             7             -             7                 8.0
IDA                                 18            21             39                48.0
Muiciplte                           20             -             20                25.0
Other donos                                                      15                19.0
T OTAL PROJECT COST                 60            21             81



-23 -
ScbeDdule B
Page I of 2
REPUBIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS A,SD EMdPLOYME NT PRDZCI
SUBMMY OF PROPOS,ED PROQCURMNT ARRANGENESI
(US$M)
Procuremn Method
Project wuuu                  -          -                   N.B.F.   TOTAL
ICB      LCB       OTHE}R
1. Publio Woks                                      59.32                  15.0     74.32
___________________________________                 (32.32)         _               (32.32)
2. Consubncis
2.1 Consultancles for Pilot Activit                           1.50                  1.50
(1.50)               (1.50)
2.2 Sevies to Conts                                           1.50                  1.50
(1.50)               (1.SO)
2.3 T.A. to Beneficiaries                                     .2S                   .25
(.25)                (.25)
2.4 Project Monkoring                                         .50                   .50
(.50)                (.50)
2.5 Conutt Management Study                                   .50                   .50
(.50)                (.50)
2.6 Mxtl Guarante Company                                      .25                  .2
(.25)                (.25)
2.7 Grasoot Participation    .                                 .50                  .SO
(.50)                (.50)
3. Miscellaneous                                                .48                   .48
3.1 PPP Refinancing                                          (.48)                (.48)
TOTAL                                               59.32      5.48        15.0     79.80
(32.32)    (5.48)               (37.80)
Note. Pigures in parnthse show IDA amount. Totals exclude US$1.2 million in price cntigencies.
N.B.. - Not Bank Financed. Al pocureomentwiil be done in accordance with the Executing Agency's
Ptocedures Manual (acceptable to IIDA).



-24-
schedle B
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS AND EmPIOYMENT PQECIM
CATEGORY                        AMOUNT    PERC}ENTAGE FINANCED
1) Publi Works
a) Subprojec                                       1432           50% of 
b) S    ubpoject                                    9.00          90% of    _
o) Subprojecta financd under ncement fund           6.00          67% of    _
2) Piot Aiies                                                      100% of xwdikus
a) Public Wors                                      3.00
b) Conuts evice                                     1.      ____1
3) Contan Seve for Tag, Stdies and Monitorin         3.50          100% of  endtus
5) PWP Refinmaning                                    0.48
6) Unallocaed                                         1.20
TarAL                                              39.00
edDisbursements:
I'    ~~ '                                   -
FY93   [     Y94        FY95       PY96
Total               12          12          12    3_l
0 C_w          ~~ ~~12      24          36         39     l



-25-
Schedule C
BEU3t OF SENEGAL
SECND PUBI1C WORKS AND EMPLdOYMENTPRlC
Mmg&g g:fl KUroject Procssin Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare:               14 months
(b) Preared by':                         Government with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA mission:                   March 1991
(d) Appraisl mission departure:          January 18, 1992
(e) Negotiations:                        April 23-24, 1992
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:       October 31, 1992
(g) Relevant PCRs/PPAR.:                 Technical Asnce Urban Management and
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1458-SX13)
tTis project was prepared by Mr. Leslie P6an, Operations Officer, AFSIN.



-26-
Stus of Bank GrCu=   Oneratons in Seneial
RAn Tir: 04/292 at 17.09.20
Status Of ak Grow  Opetios In Sam
PFDS25 - Suar Statemnt Of LMu ad IOA Credlts
(LOA data as of /2    - MIS dA as of OVW      )
Aoant In USIt mlltion
(lams  lasiors)
Loan or      Flsoal                                                                              Undit  Closing
Credit No.     Year  Borromr                       fPOSe                      Sak          IDA    bursed  Date
Credits
47 Credits(s) closed                                                                    495.33
C13100-S      18    SENEWA                         RURAL  ALNH                          15.00       1.39  1V31/91(R)
C1459(-SEN    1984   SENEGAL                       DAUm PF   liI                         2.65        .27 083092(R)
C15540-SE     1985   SENEGAL                       WATER SLY II                         24.00        .39 08/3/93
C17100-S      1988   SENL                           OM  SECTOR RE1.                     20.00       2. 07   /92(R)
C17140-SEN    1988   SENEAL                        TELECOMS II                          17.69       8.90 08/30/93
C17350-SEN    1987   SENEGAL                       PRIMARY EIUC 0DEV                    12.00       4.29 O /95
C18550-SEN    198    SEIE6tL                        IRRIGATION IV                       83.80       8.75 08/30/94
C18SO-S       198N     SENEGAL                     INOUSTRY SECTR                       33.00      27.07 08/98
C18840-SEN    1988   SNE;AL                       IMUNICIPAL HOUING OE                  46.00      30.13 03/31/95
C19100-SEN    1988   SENE6AL                       TA ONT M1                            17.00       9.43 0394
C19920-S      1989   SENESA                        SMALL RA  OPS. II                    18:10       7.91 08 98
C20750-N      1990   SENEGAL                       PUtLIC VWO  S Ea M                   20.00       8.54  10/31/92
C20770-SEN(S) 1990   SENEAL                        BANIINB/FINAWCIAL SE                 45.00        .41 06/30/92(R)
C9-0-mSEN(S) 1990   SENE:AL                        SAL IV                               80.00      27.03 04/3092
C21070-SN     1990   SENEGAL                       Ad RESEACH II                        18.50      17.58 12/31/95
C21080-       1990   SAL                           AG. SERVICES                         17.10      13.53 12M/94
C22550-N      1991   SENEGAL                       HMMAN ES I (POPAI                    35.00      33.98  12/31/95
C22680-SEN    1991   SENEGAL                       TRANSPORT SEC. S£CAL                 85.00      88.14 1V31/97
TOTAL Mdber Credits *  18                                                                517.64    287.80
Loans
20 Loans(s) ¢iosed                                                           129.33
All closed    for    SENEGAL
TOTAL umaber Loans a   0
TOTAL"'                                                       129.33   1,012.97
of nhich repald                                              78.31      21.84
TOTAL held by Bnk & IDA                                        53.02     991.14
Awnowt sold             3.38
of hloh repaid       3.38
TOTAL undisxursed                                                                   287.80
Notes:
Not yet effective
Not yet sliged
Total APwrowd. Repamnts, and duttdlrng balance reprsent boh active and Inctive Loas and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closlig Oats.
(S) Indlcates S     L  Loans and    its.
The Net Approved and Sank RepaymentB are historical value, all others are market value.
The Slning, Effwctive and Closing dates arm based upmn the Loan Department off fcal data and are not tabe
from the Task Bludet file.



