Document of
FILE COPY                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2055a-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
SECONDARY CENTERS' WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
August 17, 1977
This document has a restrieted distribution nd any be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
SECONDARY CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FISCAL YEAR ENDING
DECEMBER 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          = CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$1.00                = CFAF 245
CFAF 1                 = US$0.00408
CFAF 1,000             = US$4.08
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mm = millimeter      =  0.04 inches
1 cm = centimeter      =  0.39 inches
I m = meter            =  3.28 feet
1 km = kilometer       =  0.62 miles
1 13 = liter           =  0.26 US gallons
1 m3 = cubic meter     =  264 US gallons
I m /sec = cubic meter
per second           =  31.5 million cubic meters per year or
22.8 million US gallons per day
lcd = liters per
capita per day       =  0.26 US gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNETD     Bureau National d'Etude Technique et de Developpement
BSIE      Budget Special d'Investissement et Equipement
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
EECI      Societe d'Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire
FNA       Fonds National d'Assainissement et de Drainage
FNH       Fonds National de l'Hydraulique
SAH       Service Autonome de l'Hydraulique Humaine
SAUR      Societe d'Amenagement Urbain et Rural
SODECI    Societe de Distribution d'Eau de la Cote d'Ivoire
1/   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of
I French franc to 50 CFAF. The French Franc is currently
floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECONDARY CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Amount:          US$16 million.
Terms:           Seventeen years, including 3-1/2 years' grace period, with
an interest rate of 8.0 percent per annum.
Project
Description:     The project would be carried out from 1977-1981 and cover
part of the Government's 10-year investment plan. It would
consist of improvements and extensions of existing and con-
struction of new water supply systems in secondary centers
of the Ivory Coast; consulting services for construction
supervision, to carry out feasibility studies for centers
to be selected during project implementation and to update
and extend the government's Water Sector Development Pro-
gram; and training.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disckled without Worid Bank authorinzation.



--US-------US$ million----------Percentage
of Foreign
Cost Estimates:                Local       Foreign       Total /1   Exchange
100
Extensions and New
Water Supply System
1.  Pipes & Equipment            -           3.6          3.6          100
2.  Laying of Pipes              1.8         1.3          3.1           40
3.  Civil Works                  1.7         2.5          4.2           60
4.  Construction Supervision      .1          .4           .5           80
Sub-Total             3.6          7.8        11.4           68
B. Centers to be Identified
1.  Construction & Supply        2.3         5.2          7.5           70
2. Design and Construc-
tion Supervision              .1          .6           .7          80
Sub-Total             2.4          5.8         8.2           72
C. Consulting Services
1.  Sector and Tariff Study       .1          .4           .5           80
2. Technical Assistance
and Training                  .1          .3           .4           75
Sub-Total              .2           .7           .9          78
D.  Base Line Cost               6.2         14.3        20.5           70
E.  Contingencies                 .8          1.7         2.5           67
F.  TOTAL                        7.0         16.0        23.0           70
1/   All materials, equipment and works are tax exempt.     Duties and taxes
are estimated at 30 percent. Total project costs including taxes
would result in about US$29.9 million.
Financing
Plan                                      US$ millions (net of taxes)
IBRD                                16.0
FNH                                  7.0
Total Project Cost                  23.0
Estimated                       ---------- US$ million ------------
Disbursements:                  FY78    FY79     FY80   FY81    FY82
Annual                      .5      4.5      5.0    5.5       .5
Cumulative                  .5      5.0    10.0    15.5    16.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        3 percent for the extensions of existing water supply
systems and 2 percent for the construction of new systems.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 1484(a)-IVC, of July 29, 1977.



REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DI-RECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOANi
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A SECONDARY CENTERS
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$16.0 million
to help finance the improvements and extensions of existing and construction
of new water supply systems in secondary centers of the Ivory Coast. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with
interest at 8.0 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:    A Basic Economic Report" was
circulated to the Executive Directors in MIay 1977. Its principal findings and
conclusions are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Annex 1 provides
basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1976,
per capita income reached US$610, one of the highest in Africa. The good
overall performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 15 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: (i) large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian community of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; (ii) liberal Government policies vis-a-vis pri-
vate capital inflows as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and (iii) generally adequate public finance performance and avail-
ability of external aid.
4.        Although the country has large mineral deposits which may become
commercially exploitable in the early 1980's, the contribution of the mining
sector to economic growth has so far been negligible. On the other hand,
favorable ecological conditions in the southern region have given Ivory Coast
a clear comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (particularly
cocoa and coffee) for export and in the exploitation of timber resources.
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government and the
agricultural community were concentrated on the agricultural and forestry
sector. Large investments were made in transport infrastructure to open up
new forestry and agricultural areas, and in agricultural research programs.
Price and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic small-holder



sub-sector has responded well. Government-owned large-scale plantations with
outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut palm. Rapid growth
has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple, palm and coconut
oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which, Ivory Coast is now the
third largest producer in the world.
5.        Another important contributing factor to the country's economic
growth has been the Government's open-door policy towards foreign private
investment and foreign labor at all skill levels. The prevailing political
stability, combined with the free transferability of profits and capital,
has created an aura of confidence abroad which provided access to foreign
capital. However, the necessary technical skills to assure the planned
development were lacking in the country, and the Ivorian community appears
to have accepted and welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and
technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc
area and a strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory
Coast has always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it
joined the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has
recently helped promote the CIMAO project, which is the first regional
industrial undertaking involving both French- and English-speaking countries
in West Africa. An important feature of this cooperation with neighboring
countries, which has been beneficial to all parties concerned, is the large
influx of unskilled labor from less well-endowed Sahelian countries, parti-
cularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1976, the foreign population of the Ivory
Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was estimated at 2 million, i.e. close
to 30 percent of the country's total of 7 million inhabitants.
6.        The success of the Ivorian economy is further attributable to gen-
erally sound Government policies regarding public finance and external aid.
The public sector generated savings which, after debt service, financed about
50 percent of the public investment program in the 1960-70 period. At the
same time, the country was able to mobilize considerable financial assis-
tance from abroad, so that by the end of 1975, total external public debt
stood at US$1.5 billion and reached US$2.2 billion at the end of 1976.
Recent Development Issues
7.        The economic performance of the Ivory Coast in recent years has
been good. To maintain this momentum and help broaden the access to the
benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with exist-
ing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income distri-
bution and increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the management
of its economy. Current Government policies are directed with some success
to protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world
market prices, and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agri-
culture remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing
in GDP has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 14 percent in 1974. Within
agriculture, the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples, rubber,
cotton, coconut and palm oil has been developed, resulting in a decline of
the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in
1960 to 43 percent in 1975. As part of a more balanced regional development



- 3 -
policy, large infrastructure investments are under way in the Southwest in
an effort to develop access to that potenEially rich region.
8.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the North following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of
ox-drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment
programs. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years,
with the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20
percent of total income.
9.        Progress in "ivorianization" of capital and labor remains limit-
ed. While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign owner-
ship is still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However,
education and training are given very high priority in the allocation of
Government resources; the employment potential of the informal sector is
increasingly recognized and the Government is sponsoring a variety of
programs designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and
commercial enterprises.
10.       These new directions of Ivorian economic policies are, however,
being implemented at some cost. The development of new products, new
sectors, and new regions is more expensive with decreasing returns on in-
vestments. For example, agricultural diversification is being extended to
crops with lower comparative advantage: forest reserves may be depleted in
ten to fifteen years unless costly reforestation programs are started; the
best opportunities for import substitution in industrial development are
becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive investments in
the potentially rich but sparsely populated Southwest yield initially low
returns; large programs to improve living conditions in the North and other
poor rural areas involve long gestation periods; and finally the direct and
indirect costs of foreign production factors are increasing. Thus terms of
trade are -deteriorating. The terms and conditions of external public debt
are also hardening with the grant element of public foreign capital which
declined from 29 percent in 1969 to 10 percent in 1975.
Prospects
11.       In spite of these problems, medium- and long-term prospects of
the Ivorian economy remain favorable and an annual rate of growth of about
6 percent is a feasible objective, provided the Government becomes more
selective in determining investment priorities and continues to improve
the mobilization of domestic and external resources.
12.       The economy has considerable potential for further development of
traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments have
been made, output of new products and development of new regions will start



to yield substantial benefits, and can later be expanded at reasonable
economic cost. The Government is planning- to review the system of protec-
tion and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution
industries, and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented processing
of local raw materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's policies
of income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to
increase agricultural productivity, in the North, promotion of the informal
sector and of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises) are fully
compatible with sustained economic growth.
13.       A new Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) has recently been
published. The program provides for further increasing in production in the
developed regions, developing agriculture in poor savannah areas, accelera-"
ting the opening up of the Southwest, diversifying production in agricultui6
and industry, implementing large-iron-ore mining and paper pulp projects,
and improving the quantity and quality of services in rural and urban areas.
Preliminary cost estimates indicate that implementation of the proposed
program would involve an increase in the level of investment from 23 percent
of GDP during 1971-75 to about 30 percent during 1976-80. This is somewhat
ambitious though achievable target, particularly in view of the large sur-
plusses accumulated in the coffee and cocoa stabilization fund in 76 and 77.
Earnings of the stabilization fund are expected to decline strongly as coffee
and cocoa prices return to more normal levels by 1980. Despite this extra-
ordinary rise in domestic public savings available for investment, new foreign
borrowing mainly from commercial banks rose by 47 percent in 1976 and continued
to rise as sharply in the first half of 1977 according to preliminary reports.
This rise in external commitments coupled with increased public investment
spending from expanded domestic resources could well cause the five-year plan
to exceed even the revised plan investment targets of 30 percent of GDP.
14.       To avoid the internal distortions and balance of payments conse-
quences of this situation as well as to stay with a reasonable ratio of public
debt service to exports of goods and services by 1980, the authorities are
engaged in a review of new commitments to be undertaken during the remaining
three years of the plan, 1978-80.   The aim is to carry out as much as pos-
sible of high-priority plan targets while achieving an external debt structure
consistent with the medium-term balance of payments prospects of the economy.
15.       The Ivorian draft public investment program (1978-80) would call for
about 75 percent financing from internal sources, and about 25 percent would
be new commitments from external public aid agencies. Assuming the aims of
the draft program are met, the debt service ratio would not be expected to
exceed 18 percent by 1980.
16.       The balance of payments situation was affected by the increase
in oil prices and the recent recession of the world economy. The net oil
import bill increased from US$15 million (3 percent of commodity imports) in
1972 to US$90 million (7.5 percent of commodity imports) in 1975. However,
the economy reacted well to these circumstances, thereby demonstrating
its resilience. In 1974, higher export earnings more than offset increased
import outlays resulting in a balance of payments surplus of US$88 million.



A 1975 deficit of US$150 million was due_primarily to deteriorating terms of
trade and low timber exports caused by a continuing slump in the European
construction industry; to help meet this deficit, the country made drawings
of US$13 million from the 1975 IMF Oil Facility, and US$33 million from the
IMF Compensatory Financing Scheme. However, favorable prices for coffee and
cocoa, together with an improved timber market, led to a rapid build-up of
gross reserves from US$18 million in September 1975 to US$136 million in
February 1976 falling again to US$70 million in July. Pressures on the
balance of payments remain, as the deficit on the services account will
continue to exceed the surplus on the trade account. To maintain a sound
balance of payments position, the country will need substantial external
capital inflows, which are expected to materialize, as well as continuing
careful management of its external accounts.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1976, 18
percent was provided by governments, 20 percent by international organizations
(of which 68 percent by the Bank Group), and 36 percent by private banks and
bond issues, while 23 percent came in the form of suppliers credits. The
capital not supplied by international organizations came mainly from four
countries; France (27 percent), USA (20 percent), Italy (5 percent), and
Germany (4 percent). France and the European Communities remain the principal
source of development assistance in grant form, accounting for about 6 percent
of the flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968 the Bank's lending to, the Ivory Coast has expanded
rapidly and now includes twenty-five loans totaling US$320.7 million (in-
cluding US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA credit of US$7.5
million. Twelve of these twentv-six operations have been for agriculture,
covering the development of cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut
plantations. There were five road projects. The remaining nine loans were
for education, telec6mmunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system,
urban development, tourism development, small- and medium-scale enterprises
and a regional cement project. IFC's small participation in the Banque
Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel (US$204,000) was increased in 1974
by a 50 percent stock dividend. IFC's Board also approved earlier this
year a 10 percent equity investment, equivalent to about US$880,000, in
Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant in the country.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects, with particular reference to those which
are encountering problems in execution and giving rise to delays in disburse-
ments.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank lending program will continue to be
in the agricultural sector with an emphasis on regional growth and income



- 6 -
distribution effect. A US$20 million loan for the Fourth Oil Palm and
Coconut Project has been approved in March 1977. A second rubber project in
the Southwest has recently been appraised, and a rural development project
based on rubber is currently being prepared. Other rural development projects
in the Northeast are also under consideration.
20.       The Bank was closely associated, as executing agency, with the 1969
UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis for
determining future priorities among transport investments. Thus far the Bank
has financed five road projects totaling US$94.3 million. The First Project
was completed in December 1974 with final costs within appraised estimates.
The Second Project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975, after
an initial delay caused by project modification and subsequent poor work
organization for the construction component. The Third and Fourth Highway
Projects incurred substantial cost overruns which the Government is covering;
otherwise execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project
will contribute to a further improvement of the primary road network of the
country thus allowing a shift in emphasis for Bank lending to secondary and
feeder roads. Negotiations of a feeder roads project have just beeen com-
pleted. A regional railway project (Ivory Coast/Upper Volta) was also nego-
tiated last July that focuses on the improvement of a priority section of the
Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance
and training. While the Bank is expected to continue to play a major role in
the transport sector, financing will increasingly be shared with other aid
donors.
21.       The education system of the Ivory Coast'has not provided the country
with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The Bank is closely associated
with the Government's efforts to modernize the education system, in particular
at the secondary and vocational levels. Both the Bank's two projects thus far
have been directed to this end. Preparation of a third project is included in
the second.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project approved in 1975 will
cover the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanita-
tion in Abidjan and a follow-up project is being prepared.   An urban develop-
ment project, primarily aiming to fill the Abidjan low-income housing and
transport needs, was signed in December 1976.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises.
A follow-up line of credit is under consideration. The Bank Group also
provided support to medium scale enterprises through a local development
finance company. In June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast
in support of the CIMAO project, which is sponsored jointly by the Governments
of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in
Togo for the production of clinker for the cement market of the three coun-
tries.



- 7 -
24.       Bank Group lending to the Ivory Coast has averaged about US$47
million per year in the 1973-77 period. It is expected to increase to about
US$110 million over the next five years. The Bank Group's share of the
Ivory Coast's external debt which, at the end of 1975, stood at approximately
10 percent (including undisbursed), is likely to remain at about that level
in the next ten-year period. The Bank Group's share of total debt service
is at present 4.5 percent and is expected to go up to about 7.0 percent in the
early 1980's.
PART III - THE WATER SECTOR
25.       The Miinistry of Planning, 1/ is in charge of the water supply
sector, and the Mlinistry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism
of that for sewerage and drainage. The central Government enacts sector
legislation and within the context of the country's five-year Development Plan
sets sector development objectives.
26.       To help reduce disparities in living conditions between the various
parts of the country, particularly between the Southeastern and Northern
areas, the Government adopted in the early seventies policies to expand and
improve infrastructure throughout the country. As a result the water supply
sector was assigned high priority and in 1974 the Government prepared a water
supply investment program, at the same time it reorganized the water supply
sector. The Government retained most of the sector assets which had been
constructed by private enterprises but it assigned responsibility for planning
and construction to the Service Autonome de l'Hydraulique Humaine (SAH),
operation and maintenance to Societe de Distribution d'Eau de Cote d'Ivoire
(SODECI) and financing to the Fonds National de l'Hydraulique (FNH).
Institutions
27.       SAH was created in 1973 within the former Ministry of Planning.    Its
purpose is planning, ofganizing and supervising the construction of water
facilities. SAH has executed its technical functions satisfactorily. However,
the Government has agreed to expand SAH's professional staff of about 30
employees, mostly engineers, by one financial expert and assign one engineer
to contract preparation and administration (Section 3.06(a) of Loan Agreement).
This would improve SAH's capacity to carry out sector accounting, programming
of investments, tariff studies and the financial supervision of SODECI. SAH
has currently no plan for training local personnel which would allow gradual
ivorianization of staff. Thus, for this purpose the proposed loan would also
include provision for training abroad for an equivalent of ten man-months.
1/   At the end of July 1977 the Ministry of Planning has been amalgamated with
the Rinistry of Economy and Finance.



- 8 -
28.       SODECI was formed in 1959 by the Societe d'Amenagement Urbain et
Rural (SAUR), a French water supply company. -At present SODECI's share
capital is split between SAUR (46 percent), Ivorian nationals (45 percent),
French nationals (4 percent) and SONAFI, an Ivorian Government finance
company (5 percent). The company has about 1,050 staff of which about 30 are
expatriates, who occupy the senior and middle management positions. However,
the deputy general manager and all managers of the provincial water supply
systems are Ivorians. SODECI also arranges for training of Ivorian engineers
under the auspices of the French water supply company and uses in-house
training to upgrade personnel. This arrangement is satisfactory.
29.       SODECI operates and maintains urban water supply systems and vil-
lage wells. It is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the urban
sewerage and drainage facilities under contract with Societe d'Equippement des
Terrains Urbains (SETU), a Government agency in charge of the sewerage and
drainage sector and carries out contracting and consulting activites on its
own account. SODECI's water supply activities are governed by two contracts
with the Government. A 30-year concession, signed in 1959 for the Abidjan
area, originally provided that SODECI establish and maintain fixed assets,
such as water production and distribution systems. At the end of the con-
cession, all assets automatically revert to the Government. This contract
has undergone substantial amendment and is now tantamount to a management
contract for the Abidjan water supply system. Under the second contract
signed in 1974 for 15 years, SODECI has management responsibilities for
operation and maintenance of water supply facilities for the rest of the
country.
30.       The remuneration system for SODECI under both contracts works well.
A joint study made in the latter part of 1973 by the former Ministry of Planning
and SODECI, analyzed the operating costs of various types of centers and set
standards as to the number and description of the staff and operating facil-
ities to be3used in each center. From these inputs a basic average remuner-
ation per m sold was derived. This remuneration is modified on a yearly
basis by a cost revision formula. These costs are covered by an "operation
charge" included in the water tariff. SODECI is required to submit statements
of revenues and expenses to the Government on a yearly basis.
31.       FNH was created by the Government in 1976 as an autonomous entity
for the purpose of financing water supply systems. Similar to the Fonds
National d'Assainissement (FNA), the Government's financial agency for sewer-
age and drainage operations, FNH is located within and staffed by the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), the agency managing the Government's external
debt. CAA also contracts all debts on behalf of FNH. CAA's staff needs
strengthening in the field of water supply and sewerage. Therefore, the
Government has agreed that CAA would hire a financial expert with experience
in the water and sewerage sectors by March 31, 1978, who would be financed
under the proposed loan (Section 3.08 of Loan Agreement). FNH has agreed to



- 9 -
prepare a pro-forma consolidation of sector accounts no later than six months
after the close of each fiscal year (Secti_on 4.03 (c) of Loan Agreement). FNH
has a six-member Board, representing various Ministries, chaired by the
Director of the Special Budget for Investment and Equipment (BSIE). The Board
meets at least twice a year to approve the sectors investment program, budget
and authorize borrowings.
32.       SETU, created in 1974 as a Government agency, plans and controls
investments in the sewerage and drainage sector. Only Abidjan has an or-
ganized sewerage and drainage system. In 1974 the Government began a ten-year
program to improve and expand this system which is presently inadequate for
the rapidly-growing capital. This program is assisted by two Bank projects
(Loans 1076-IVC and 1347/1348 T-IVC) and a follow-up project is under prepara-
tion. The Government is also preparing a five-year plan for sewerage and
drainage facilities in larger centers outside Abidjan.
Water Resources
33.       Ivory Coast has two rainy seasons in the South and one in the North.
The rainfall is heaviest along the coast (an average of more than 2,000 mm in
Abidjan), where it rains every month. Rainfall decreases further inland
(about 1,500 mm in Yamoussoukro) and a dry season of several months in the
north produces water shortages. Ground water in large quantities is found
only in the coastal zone, from Sassandra to the border with Ghana. Four major
rivers running north-south constitute the principal surface water resources.
Currently, Abidjan is supplied entirely from ground water, while other centers
derive about 80 percent of their requirements from surface water.
34.       In 1975 an estimated 30 percent of the urban population had house
connections. By mid-1976, Abidjan, Bouake and 53 other centers, with a
combined population of 2.5 million had piped water supply facilities.
Only about 50 percent of the people living in Abidjan and an average of 15
percent of those living in the other towns, have house connections, roughly
the same proportion as in most other West African countries. Existing water
supply systems are generally well equipped. Water losses have been reasonable,
accounting for about 15 percent in Abidjan and an average of 20 percent in
other centers. Systems outside Abidjan are expensive in investment and
operation due to a low density of service connections and a large reliance on
surface water sources requiring full water treatment facilities.
35.       Data on rural water supply facilities are scant.    However, an
inventory of village wells is under way. An estimated 1,100 concrete lined
wells currently exist supplying about 15 percent of the rural population.
Wells in the North frequently dry out in the dry season, causing villagers to
resort to dug holes, ponds and streams which are often far away and disease-
infected.
Water Consumption, Tariffs and Social Measures
36.       Between 1969 and 1975, total consumption increased at an average
annual rate of 8.2 percent in Abidjan and 9.7 percent outside Abidjan; the



- 10 -
number of connections increased at an average annual rate of 13.2 percent
and 12.3 percent respectively; and the consumption per connection decreased at
an average annual rate of 4.7 percent in Abidjan and 2.2 percent outside
Abidjan. Average daily per capita consumption from piped water supply systems
is presently about 20 liters and it is expected to double by 1988. Consumption
from public standpipes is low, accounting in 1975 for less than one percent of
total water consumption in Abidjan. The Government has been generally reluc-
tant to provide sufficient public standpipes on the grounds that the
current municipal surcharge included in the water tariff would not cover the
cost of water provided through public outlets if their numbers were increased
substantially. The water supply program initiated in 1974 foresees that all
new centers to be served by piped water have one public standpipe per thousand
people. This arrangement appears to be satisfactory. However, this policy
does not apply to centers already served with piped water. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that within-the context of the proposed project, the
Government would adopt a policy providing for construction of a public stand-
pipe for every thousand people presently without, and to assure that the
municipal revenues cover the water consumed from public standpipes (Section
4.04 of Loan Agreement). In addition, as part of the tariff study to be
financed under the proposed loan, the Government would examine the criteria
for providing public standpipes, as well as alternative methods for covering
the cost of standpipe water consumption.
37.       In 1974 the Government has introduced a countrywide uniform tariff
for urban piped water. Well water in rural areas is free.    The new scheme
entails cross-subsidies from the consumers of large centers to those of small
centers and to villagers, and is expected to alleviate some of the effects
of relatively higher cost of smaller supply systems thereby contributing to
income distribution and making water available for more poor people. The
water tariff was nearly double5 between 1974 and 1977 and at an average price
of water of about US$.50 per m is currently among the highest in Western
Africa. The tariff consists of five components, the two largest being SODECI's
operation charge (52 percent of the total tariff) and the water surcharge (29
percent). The water surcharge constitutes the main source of revenues of FNNH
and is used to -service the sector's debt.
38.       The tariff structure includes a reduced "social" block within the
tariff, amounting to about 70 percent of the normal tariff    for domestic
consumption. This rate is applicable for the first five m consumed per month
and allows a consumption of about 25 liters per person per day, assuming about
five or six people per connection. These assumptions may be adequate for
Abidjan, but in other centers many more people are likely to share one con-
nection. As part of the tariff study to be included in the proposed project
these tariff and related pricing and revenue questions would be reviewed.
39.       One of the factors restricting the access to water by low income
people until recently was the connection charge for the smallest private
connection. It was about US$120 until 1974. The charge for the smallest
private connection was finally eliminated in 1976 and its cost is now being
capitalized.



- J1 -
40.       Bank activities in the water sector are designed to help the Govern-
ment to strengthen the institutional base and identify the priorities for
investment, as well as to promote more adequate water sector policies.     The
combined investments currently under consideration for the water and sewerage
sectors are estimated at over US$350 million, an amount which might be diffi-
cult to be financed from sector revenues. An integrated financial planning,
including that for the sewerage sub-sector, which also derives part of its
revenues from the water tariff will therefore be necessary. The proposed
project would assist the Government in its planning and financing activities
in the sewerage and water supply sectors, through a tariff study which would
examine the water tariff structure, including its sewerage component. In
addition the Government has agreed, starting with 1978, to entrust the newly
created "Comite Interministeriel de Coordination du Financement des
Investissements Publics" with the .review of the compatibility between the
annual investment and financing plans of the water supply sector and those of
the sewerage and drainage sector and between these plans and the water tariff
and other financial resources (Section 4.05 of Loan Agreement).
The Ten-Year Investment Program
41.       The following major sectoral objectives over the next ten years have
been identified: providing all of the country's administrative centers with a
water supply system, extending existing systems, and providing all villages
having at least 100 inhabitants with wells. By 1985, the percentage of the
urban population having house connections should increase to about 60 percent
in Abidjan and 25 percent in other centers. To appreciate the magnitude of
the work to be accomplished, it should be emphasized that, by 1985, the
population of Abidjan will have increased by almost 90 percent and that of
other urban centers by about 83 percent over 1975. The present program
defines 112 new systems of which about 30 are currently under construction or
under tender. Under the program, by 1985 the number of wells and bore-holes
would reach about 10,300, as compared with 1100 at present.
42.       The investment cost per capita of water systems ranges from about
US$60 to US$300, depending on the size of the population and the source of the
water supply. Abidjan has the dual advantage of having a large population and
ready access to underground water, whereas the centers in the interior gen-
erally, have small populations and derive about 80 percent of their re-
quirements from the more costly surface water. The high cost of providing
water in the small centers has been one of the factors hampering the de4elop-
ment of water supply in the interior.
43.       Prior to sector reorganization, the financing of the water supply
facilities was arranged -- and the resulting debt serviced -- by the Govern-
ment, the municipalities, and one private company under concession contracts.
Under the new Government policy, however, FNH arranges the financing of the
whole sector with borrowings which will be serviced entirely out of water
surcharge revenues. Likewise, FNH's operating costs will be financed entirely
from sector revenues. Thus, the main objective of the Governments financing
policy is that the sector be self-supporting.



- 12 -
44.       To carry out these objectives, a development program was published
in 1974 and subsequently updated several times. The resulting 1977-80 invest-
ment plan has an estimated cost of US$236.1 million equivalent, in current
prices. It is about equally split between the urban and the village water
supply subsectors. Under the proposed project the water sector development
program would be updated annually. The Government agreed to update and
rephase its investment plan by December 31, 1978, taking into account avail-
able resources of FNH and if necessary the conclusions and recommendations of
the tariff study to be financed under the proposed loan (Section 4.06 of Loan
Agreement).
45.       Required borrowings for the 1977-80 period amount to about US$224
million of which, at present, about 31 percent has been secured and another
22 percent is under consideration by institutional lenders, including the
Bank; 47 percent is not yet identified. Completing the financing plan may
prove difficult. But this is not critical, because anyone of the small
increments can be postponed without seriously affecting the overall program.
A strong financial discipline will be required to prevent the sector from
incurring a high proportion of short and medium-term debt. Villages do not
pay for the maintenance of public wells. However, in the past they were
expected to contribute about 10 percent of the construction costs of these
wells, though they have fallen far short of this target in 1976. As part of
the tariff study to be financed under the proposed loan, the Government would
agree to examine the ability of the villages to pay a share of investments and
the feasibility of establishing a village well maintenance tax (Schedule 2,
Part E(ii) of Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The feasibility studies for the part of the project already identi-
fied were financed with proceeds from the Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage loan
(Loan No. 1076-IVC). The proposed project was appraised during December 1975,
with follow-up missions in March, June and September 1976. Loan negotiations
took place in Washington from May 18 to May 20, 1977 and were completed in
the field on June 24, 1977. The Ivorian delegation was led by Mr. Gbozia,
Director of FNH.
47.       The project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report
No. 1484(a)-IVC, dated July 29, 1977, and summarized at the beginning of this
report. It would be carried out over a four-year period (1977-1981) and
consist of:
(i)  improving and extending water supply systems in ten
secondary centers (having an average population of
21,000); and establishing new water supply systems
in five secondary centers (average population of
4,500);
(ii)  extending and establishing water supply systems in
a number of centers to be selected during project
implementation;



(iii)  consulting services for SAH to supervise con-
struction and prepare feasibility and detailed
engineering studies for the water supply systems
in the centers to be selected, and for CAA to
strengthen FNA and FNH;
(iv)  training of Ivorians to allow gradual staffing of
SAH with local personnel; and
(v)  consulting services to update and extend to 1985 the
water sector development program and to review the
tariff structure and level.
Project Implementation
48.       The proposed project would be carried out by SAH assisted by engi-
neering consultants satisfactory to the Bank. The Government also agreed to
implement a training program (Section 3.06(c) of Loan Agreement). SAH would
also prepare a report on centers to be selected for construction of water
supply systems during project implementation. These centers would be iden-
tified on the basis of priority, least-cost solution, rate of return tests
(Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement) and would be submitted to the Bank for
review (Section 3.09 of Loan Agreement). Bank approval of the entire package
of centers presented to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for
these centers (Schedule 1, para. 4 of Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total project cost is estimated at US$23.0 million net of taxes
(US$29.9 million including taxes), of which about US$16.0 million would be
foreign exchange. The total cost of systems already identified would amount
to US$13.9 million. The remainder would be made up of US$8.2 million for
centers to be identified during project implementation and US$0.9 million for
consulting services and technical assistance, calculated at a base cost of
US$6,000 per man-month.- These cost estimates include contingencies and are
based on mid-1976 price levels. The water sector is exempt from duty and
taxes which are estimated to be the equivalent of about 30 percent of total
project cost.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of US$16.0 million would cover the estimated
foreign exchange costs. In line with sector policy it is intended that FNH
would provide local costs from borrowings, failing which the Government would
cause the necessary funds to be provided. The loan would be made to the
Government for a term of 17 years, including a 3-1/2 year grace period, at
8 percent annual interest. It would be on-lent to FNH on the same terms.
Ratification of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and RiH
would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01 of Loan
Agreement).



- 14 -
51.       The need for strict financial discipline in the water sector has
been mentioned earlier. The Government has, therefore, accepted a debt service
covenant, whereby no additional debt would be contracted, unless revenues from
the water surcharge from the preceding year would cover at any time the
sector's debt service and FNH's expected operating expenses for the subsequent
year. If necessary, revenues would be increased by the amount of the then
existing water surcharge surplus from previous years and cash received from
other sources. However FNH's reserve from water surcharge surpluses should
at any time be the equivalent of the sum of two months debt service require-
ment and the projected operating expenses of FNH of the subsequent year. The
Government would also increase the water surcharge as necessary to meet this
obligation (Section 4.07 of Loan Agreement). At the same time the Government
would reduce the proportion of outstanding debt with an original maturity of
less than seven years from the current 15 percent of total outstanding debt to
5 percent. It would, therefore, not contract any such additional debt unless
the 5 percent level is reached and can be maintained (Section 4.09 of Loan
Agreement).
52.       The rate of return on revalued net fixed assets, about 6.1 percent
in 1976, would drop to about 3.1 percent in 1979, then rise to about 3.7
percent by 1981 and higher in subsequent years. The decline between 1976 and
1979 is due to the fact that water consumption and, thus, water revenues,
increase only by about 20 percent in this period (in 1976 prices), whereas
fixed assets in service increase by about 110 percent in the same time span.
However, as the pace of investments slows down in subsequent years and con-
sumption continues to rise, the rate of return starts to increase. The
Government has, therefore, agreed that effective 1978 the water surcharge
would be adjusted as required to provide revenues sufficient to yield a rate
of return of not less than three percent on the current value of the average
net fixed assets in service in the urban water supply sub-sector (Section 4.08
of Loan Agreement).
53.       The accounts of FNH are currently audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. The Government has agreed to continue to have FNH's
accounts independently audited and to use its best efforts to ensure that
SODECI's accounts would also be independently audited.
Procurement
54.       The procurement would be carried out in two stages.     The first would
cover the centers which have already been identified; the second would include
the centers to be identified during project implementation. Civil works and
the laying of pipes (US$13.8 million) and the supply of equipment and pipes
(US$6.8 million) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Consultant contracts for technical assistance and construction
supervision (US$2.4 million) would be let in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 15 -
Disbursements
55.       Loan proceeds would be disbursed so as to reflect the estimated
foreign exchange component of the project against: (a) 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost for directly imported goods or 80 percent of the local
cost of the locally purchased goods (US$5.3 million); (b) 40 percent of the
total cost of laying pipes (US$2.8 million); (c) 60 percent of the total cost
of civil works (US$4.5 million); (d) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures
for consultant services and training (US$1.7 million). The balance would be
unallocated (US$1.7 million). The closing date would be September 30, 1981.
Project Justification
56.       The project would provide safe water to an estimated 400,000 addi-
tional people when full system capacity is reached in the early 1990's. The
project, thus, would support the Government's efforts to improve the living
conditions of the population in small cities. These efforts are geared to
adopt a number of measures with a primarily social impact, such as free-of-
charge installation of the smallest private connection, cross-subsidization of
rural centers by large cities through a uniform country-wide water tariff and
construction of public standpipes to provide water to otherwise unserved
people. The project would help to satisfy estimated water demand using the
least cost solution--at reasonable capital cost per capita.
57.       An economic analysis was carried out to compare project costs and
benefits and assess the sensitivity of the rate of return to variations in
costs and demand. Quantifiable benefits are limited to the consumers'
willingness to pay the existing tariff and must be regarded as the minimum
proxy for total benefits. Unquantifiable benefits include health improvements
as a result of the consumption of an increased per capita volume of clean
water instead of water often taken from disease-infected sources, the consumer
surplus indicated by the negligible effect on consumption growth rates as a
result of significant past tariff increases, and the effect of the project in
improving infrastructure in the provinces, thereby reducing the relative
attractiveness of Abidjan to the rural population.
58.       An important factor of unquantifiable benefits is the provision
of sanitary water supply. By improving the public health status of the
affected communities, the incidence of waterborne diseases, such as dysentery
and numerous other gastrointestinal infections which together are the major
causes of infant mortality, can be significantly curtailed. Reduction in
these diseases can also lead to better utilization of nutrients and can be
expected to increase the economic productivity. Investment in such preventive
public health measures as the provision of sanitary water supply would, in the
long run, constitute substantial saving in health-care expenditures.
59.       The rate of returns, defined as the discount rate of costs and
benefits attributable to the project, for extensions and new centers are
3 percent and 2 percent respectively. Although these figures appear low, they
are not unusual for small-sized centers, such as those included in the project.



- 16 -
In addition, in these centers virtually only surface water is available, re-
quiring a high capital investment for civil wDrks, transmission facilities and
treatment plants.
60.       These rates of return were calculated on the basis of constant 1976
prices. Cost and benefits were converted from domestic to border prices to
reflect the efficiency prices of goods and labor. The expected life of the
civil works, 50 years, was used as the project time horizon. Replacement has
been provided for inputs with a shorter life. Finally, sector revenues which
have been used as a minimum proxy for benefits have been valued at weighted
average prices, for water consumed via house connections and public standpipes.
Risks
61.       The risk of incorrectly locating facilities would be reduced, since
the proposed loan would in a first stage help to finance basic water source
works, treatment plants and transmission facilities to meet demand to 1991 and
distribution facilities for a first phase of expansion to meet demand through
1981 and 1982 respectively for extensions and new centers. The second stage
would expand the distribution facilities, thereby poviding an opportunity to
reasses the pattern of demand growth for house connections. The environmental
risk is considered to be small. The volume of waste water would be increased;
however, the Government is preparing a 5-year plan to provide sewerage facili-
ties in the larger centers of the project, where a problem might be created.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of the
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness included in the Loan Agree-
ment would be that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
FNH has been duly ratified and entered into by all parties concerned (para.
50). A special condition of disbursement for centers not yet identified would
be that the Bank has approved the package of all these centers (para. 48).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
August 17, 1977



I  14  a nI ol a-
-A -A -A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ]-
o  Xe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
xft:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   09 
9300  4.  C  000ai~~~  itO  0  000  CAl  40 It0.  C C 00   0 
ix  9 ~ ~ 9 
-I                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '1
nO ~ ~ ~ V-
7   54       Al   0             Clii                      9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  l,I
-l ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L it 
iSki~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r,I7 U                                     9rfa 
n#~~~~~  aA 



-19-
Pn.ie 2 of .  ~e
UnIon. otriso noted, data for 1960 rotar LO any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betcer, 1968 and 1970 end for Mlost Recent E.tinate eat...n
1973ad1975.                                   __
*    GW  per capita dat. we **m      - Uwd Moib     aU oww""            (15964-6 I6AS).
So Sue to Lii.ratlon population Sr-at rsa, . ha igher then ti.p rot. 2.1 "twal iscrtaao-
--*Th. RepubliC of Chi., CTai.ana) ha. bearn saZatted Sa objactiva town? boaw of Its 66gb tat. of g-roth esa-d with a.' Laprovanat of the
10nc0. distribuation, its nooca.. in the diversification of production and exports, the dootant rol. of exports in It. eco-wic d-vcl.pa.nt, the
high lev1 of daneatic *tt        and th. it., rt. of orban un1oselonent doapita . "rurl as.due.
IVORY COA.ST:           1960     Li 1937-581      /b  African Population only;      L.s  1955-65;    L   1965;     /.  15 . 59 yearn and 60 AMnd    . -nrepo-
ti,oly;     If  1964;    I&   Ratio of population   ndar 13 and 60 and .-o to labor for 15 - 59 years;         IS  Foyula-
tion;    Li   1963;    LI1 Including assistant nuirses, aidw-c     and ... itatnt old.i-oo      /k  1956-57.
1970    la   1965-70;         Ratio of population uader 15 ad 65 anad    -ro to total labor force;      1n  Gonr-  -t -nly, in-1oiln
aidw,l'oa i   L   1966-66.
MOST LECflh7 ESTI5MATX         19%d1    t197O-751        ZL   kiLo of popAltaaia udar 15 and 65 And o.r to 3a-a for, S&* 15-59
.; pea"      Asp 1i-M I1 ywas             l 9jg  ZL  1972.
TUNI5LA:                 1970    Li D,aa to aigration population &rorth rat. A.      woar than tha tat. of natural /nroo            b  1956-66;     /c   1966;
Li Ratio of population    Wnd   15 and 65 and tea   to totl. lfbor forco;      J.  C.- ring 4,7  nlli-o h..t.77. in
pri-ate lan, axcloding 0.8 million hatre.a in public OSonrship, and 2.1        lillino  heoLaros of coicioland;
fPeroonnal in govarmot .."ivces only;         L&  Govarnoant hoapit.1 oatabll.hnont. only;       /h   1964-66,
Raglet.rad only.
MALAYS !A.               1970;   LA  West Malayeia;     lb   Registared Applicants for work;      L.c personnel In g-nronort              -1via  ny;  Id  1964.-66;
Pi ped watar inside only.
CHINA, REP. OF:          1970:   /a  Du.. to Lalgration population Srothi rata is highar than th. rate of natural 11ncroce.,        .lb   1966;    L.  Ratio of
population, undar 15 and 65 and   erto total lab.for coe;        Id  Gooro-t only;        Li Total, urban -nd rural.
RIll hoso. 17, 1977
0W?rrTtTm 0f OCIAL VDICAIT
L4.o  At.. (thork. 2)                                                                   pnuala      a   oOng 0..-     - PoP.lation dim1d.d by .-b., of practiCIng
T.tal1  Tota1 aorf.o art. c-rliogn land eras ad inland taro..ra. n                                 t.     gradatt   oraa,    telnd" or 'n-rtifid" ourn.. .. ad
Carlo. -Mosr re.Cn ..tiSSta of             -roloriea  rand taorepr.ily or pa..-          eaniliary parocot lb trainng or ..p.ri-Co
oetly for crops, pastures, -rkat 6, kitchen geedat or to lie failop.                  Pnwo1#imto  per boaplil bad - Populaion di18.8 by t,a       f boepita1 bad.
-vil.bla in public and privet. gatara1 end *paCl.Iiad hoapita1 and
CX? oar ..Pit. CUS).   GNP Par capiLe eatinet.. at Cottet nerbt pricas,                   eahbiiitatiot, ca-na; ...oldoa onto ma hooe .08 aat.bli.1ahant. for
nalorIlatad by .-  Coraiaon eabod aa World Beank AC?... (1973-75 bes.i);                oratodiol and provottl- cate.
1960; 1970 and 1973 data.                                                             P.r ..pit. ..pply of caoro      Cof t,OtIrttt)      Coep..d fr- .nargy
.qoi-al-t of ati food uoppli.. ...ilabla it Corary pat Capita P.r doy,
Pp.vlation and vttglSatatietc,                                                           av.iLable .uppllas  -opria. donotic prodootin., oparta lese    Soxrts, soid
PPuolation (aid-voer ni1lion)   A. of J.1y first: if nt available, awara.                 Changoa in Stock; oat auppli .   .. Iold. ani-Ia faad. aO.d., quantitiaa oeod
of two eod-ya.ar  aotiatsta; 1i60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                  in food prooco...Ig and losaes It di.teibttloo; r.qoitesnt. war. *otlaatad
by PA0 b ...d a phyitologica1 a..d. f,ocrnotol .oti,,Ocy aod bacIth cona,ld-
Popu.lato  de-atry - Per auor.sr  h  - Mld..,aa populaetion p.r aq.ars, k1lontat           ring aeont1taspa          traua, bod-y otighi., ag, and ... diatribetoua of
(100 hecaabo      ttla..parlro.an                                                                        loig101 fo t... a.t ho-n-eaboid I      1.l
Zouaindnalty - oatneve.%   h of optic. land -Canputd aa abova for                 Pat napite ao,L=   o.f protein loo. Par day) - Ptot. in contant of par capita
grio-itur.1 land only.                                                                 nat *opply of food pat day; tat .nppiy of food J. defined AS aboto  raq.ir.-
moOt for all .-trirl. nacebliabd by UISDA E.ononi. easaa-hc SorvtCam
Ia  tatiatiCa                                                                         provid. for A niiano   loanaof 60       raa of .tota  protain pat day, aod
C-d..do irth rot. par thoneand. -vara - oAo1 liv. birth. par thousand of                  20 Sr-t of .ninal and puiaa prot.in, of wtricb 10 grin Should ba .ninai
oid-yaar poplatioa. t.t-y-c    -rithtic    vragaa aduios in 1960 nod 1970,              protala; threa. Sanadard. at. I-aa than those of 75 tr-n of total protaio
ardlv-ya  vrag  "AdLng in 1975 f or neat ratant  stirnat.                        And 23 gratm of ..inal protain an Son eerago for tha -rlod, proposad by FAoi
Cav.d dasrbtarn per thouaand. anarano -Annual da.aba par thousand of aid-yact             t. the Third World F008 Survy. 
population;  -a-yaar erithentic eanreg. ending In 1960 And 1970 and fin.-             Par C-pit. pr.t.lo ..opely fr-.taiorel and pule. - Protein ..pply of food
y..r evrg     nigI       95f" or ma  rcoutr aetheata.                                   doriond fron a..tLeL ad pul... In Srat   pat day.
ItfaL oo,rtali'rr  at  /to.     Annual dacrth. of Wrofte under on., yeat of ago         Onath rat. C/thou)  R..a 1-4 - tonoel doatha Par tboadin at. groop 1-4
par thouaaad lIva birthe.                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~yaar-  to C*chldren In thia  S go roop; eggtoat.d Canlodicator of
tIC.acontany a  birth  re- A-..rn. n,-nr Of years Of lifa roaming at                 nalorarrition.
birth; vavaly fiva-yat av     Saaga ending ian 1960, 1970 ad 1975 for daalop-
Croa  =ardCiori rota - Avara. unonr of liv, daughtato a         -a   i111 he.r          -8008      ool.      aio - r!-rar   aChool - EooIla-n    of all gaa   a. Par-
in het tonol reprod-Ctin   period if ohe naparianceaa Present  go-apanific              cantata of pelnery s.hoo1-age poprI.iabo; irolode. Children, aged i-11 poa-
fe'rility rartna; uoaIly fi-e-yaar avarga   andiog In 1960, 1970 and 1973               buat adjatad for diffarant lengtha of priar-y odutoacia  for  -ortri.n tith
fordolp.      gCotla                                                                    ooLvatool nd-.tion, nool     -rny nacoad IOC?. atnc   a-   puapils era bob,,
P.   laIS    trO   a._l       total - COapand amoa    groth ratac of aLd-yaa,             or ab-th.b offlola1 anhoI ag..
poultIn  ortAO-f 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                          Adlotad onolt.tr:tlo-aorat             Col-Caotop dizabov         eac-dary
PoouIatlou  -tht rac    Cl    rban - Cnepatad Ilkhe gran    rat. of tocal                 ndoto      eurne       aa    oryeaof apprVe.d pr,ay         ettr   i.n;
popul.cion ; diff. "n t dafi.itiova, of urban erea nay offset omparability of           proidu eneraarl, ~Ocutloe.al or tearher training instructions for pupilse
data  onagLCountrlne.                                                                   Of 12f toh 17yaro  f egol:; Cor .P=aon, COornn     rera .o.orally aciod.d.
llrb a onoulatia M of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; difforan             Vst    faholt       poie     (ftotan   .*cd 1-vol) -TtalY yara of
dafioitiota of urban   rar.a  ay affeCt omparabIlty of dana Sons Coutriaa.                ohooling; at aaa  -ayloa, vo-tional i-arrortio       nay ha partiaIly Or
-A. Struacture (Patnat) - Children (0-14 year.), wertif-ago (1.-646 ysar,.),             TWA Cions I  I   =nln  it of ..C. d&ry) - VostitoI inatitotiona ianlode
and raird(5 year. and fter) as panrentaga. of aid-y*8t popolatian.                      ronhital, lndoetri.1 or other proroas     ".hl  oparao Ind.p.ndaatly ora
odranenL= y ratio   ..eta. of popolatbon, ander 15 ad 65 and o,,ar to thoeadprin                   oenndyitCutn.
of   "   Iaa1 thr-ogh 64.                                                             Id,lt Lt,racy rot SM) -Ltroadritt (ebla to rod and writ.) a. Per-
yC-nonlC datn      ntratio - Ratio of popul.tlao rndar I5Soed 65 and -or to               Catg     o   oa   ado1  population agd 15 poarn andter.
the Ilalr,  rrInaogop         f1-' year.e
,-till plniL oC -1 aCt:.eptof`(,au.aio. thou) - Cuarlativa onroohr of otcaptoev         Rous, lg
of birtir-nontro1 doiCee under .-api.*. of national faily Planting progra             P.--on  par rooe (orben) - Avnrago -rabr of persons per toe In. -CCpld
ainon inOnetlon                                                   oonven~~~~~~: tional dwallingo in orban ar... ; dwalliog. Seclude n-pornna-
Ioll  ti -nin   u- nt   C% of oar-riad  en  - Parnantag.. of aerid        nof            atutta      dooCpidpri
Cbildhaarig a~a(15-44 year.) oho oan birtb-conrrol d-vinaa to all --tiad          Oroopiad daI LOa witout pled wtrC)-OCpo                antoa         olig
win  , I  a   eg. group.                                                             1n urban and rora1 see.a oithot inside ot outside pipad vator f..ilitino
05protg  f all ,CCpid dwelling.
otoltynont                                                  Anna.. tO olaotticiry Cl o~~~~~~~~~f all deolI Ca  - Co-vantiona  dollinga with
otllorforne (thousanod  - Ecanowi-aly aSeile parsons, incloding   Oetad             .1entinity 1. l1vig qu-tora aa paro..na of total dwaIlingp It orban .nd
forna   o   talydbut annldiog baoaosiva, students, ate.; deflitiona                     tota  aose.
in onton   C   Ptatela  or." not naperebla.                                           Rural d-Illing. caneotad to alactricrt    C?)   Cepurod AS aboo   for rota
L.abor forte in a           Moltr  l - ArgriCnlcerat labor fore. (i. feniag, forestry,    d-eLILnga only.
botig hd iaiS) a. pa"taga of total labor forne..
_lplIa       !f t  lb'or torno  Ilnasplyad er usoally defiload as persona, .o          Cope,aption.
are able ad willingS to t.ba a Job, ont of a Job on a give   day, raiond out          Radio raooivera Coat thou PoP) - All typea of tacivor. for radio broadc Ao
of aJob, and Seeking atrk for a Spanifid ain.I      pariod .ot  z.anding tn-           to    .. gan rapblfiCpr, thonend of pop.latIou. ronlud.solri    e   ratconr
-ek; aay not he caparabl. a hrman Co,i.trift duea to difforat daflnitions,              inRuti.ad i          o. ara than reiletretion, of radio oat. waa in affoct;
oUf u--Ploved and Source of data. o.t. , anploysenr office  t.taitric, .-PI.            data for recent year. nay not he tinp-rbl.ia aon   ...  countei.a aboliane.d
*oronya, coapoiaoay enaployant tonaranCe.                  lineneing...V                                  copri.  -t      ..r  ..ti.
mo-    diatributio   P- Pontiogetof privet. inoe, (both in nAsb ad kind)                  loan than aightparsons; -nludet     nb.lancta. hearen end ailitery
ronnio-d by ri,nrar 5T. r'ich.O  201. poorat 201, and potrat 40. of bwaaa-              -ohitla..
Mode.                                                                                 Ela.triCity fhkh/yr par o-P) - Oual_ tonaraptiot of induatrial. cninartla1.
pobl%ri  nd prieto eleCtricity in kli1rott houra par ..pita., gaeneraly
Diatribution of Ieod ownrahip - Parc.nt.gne of lad mooed by 'enathiast 107.               baasd onproduCtion data, nitbout ailonen-    for laooas ito gida but allo--
ad Poooror 10?. on land  la.                                                             og for ipert    and aporta of aln-tricitt
N anweprit (ba/yr Per ..P) - pee ..Pit. a-Ia oonaapetia in b1ilSo-r
lealOb end Cuteitbon                                                as~~~~~~~~tlaatad fra deseati. production piu. oat Laportta of oa.prio.t
po~leton  ar  ieriClt -Population dieided by oush., of prantICias
phyelciana qualified frax a -dlcai aehool at utivaity t-1.i



-age 3of '- =ag3es
T..  o   =ars)
Ai:a                         ?ro3acted             19 65  1-970 -   :975 -    193 -C
XAT:C:522 ACCGMiZS                                                        a V&a   :so1      H:2_ __  -:       a!22      93ih~           12.-     l
Gross Iccesttc Procuct  .~~~~~~,-- Aert 1,-J   196-    Prizes & Exccharge Pates       .ersge Arnnal G rowth ates        A   ecn
a,:.           23:7        9      ,:2         r     52        0.        . o.            ::-.2   l0o.2
Gains froz Term  of Trde ()        -so       10       .79       -102      -157    -301       .        .        .        .       43       .4      -.
Gross flocestICTnc=I.oe        ~          :~~       77           T       ,1.      ,2         .        .7      63       62       re 3     er     zer
-=port (tncl. NRa)                 35       57        705        375      gI      ,119g    :o.6     4..60               ,      -41.2   .57.7
(tcr,% oirt capasotw)       X53       571      75         35.      r1               10.4.     L.         s      5. 2
Cap               19       2~   ~  ~~~        ~~~~     ~~~                         ~~7 23  -22  -   . .         .
Consu=ption Erenlditures           753    1,151     l.L21-     1,714    1,925    2,608      ;.o     L.3       6.3      6.3      77.8     75.9
investzent   "   (rl,d stocks)     :96      310       4.32       E30      EsE      8of      g.6     6.9       6.7      L.2      20.2     23.1    25.3
Domestic SavI-ngs                  23--6    3338      152        553      6:-6     520      9.1.    6'.:      6.1      5:.9     22.3     21.3    21.2
National Savings                   169      255z      33         42L      1.69     655,     3.6     5.9       E. --    6.       1.i      1.       -' 7
iCERCP.ANDSE TESOX.                        Annual Data a: C'--rent PrIces                                                       As Percent of Total
Ono'orts
CapIttal goods                    61      111l      35         637       750   1,292     1.2.7   23.1      13.9     II.=      23.9     27.1    'c,_L
tnteyr4mdste goods (s"fuels)     L1       2s      210         307      397      375     327     19.5     1.         71       1.        30~
7Ptals and relsted materials      4        150      137        20       266,    511L      6.7    51.5      11.      --1.0      5.1      3.5    10.
Cosnaurr goocds                  tIc      213       132        799     1,052   i,591      9.3    1-7.2     169       8.7      511.     111     1.
Total erict. Thvorss (el'f)      at:      T!     :    -               277~     IT:~      111     220       1:?      1.6      7FE      rO-      O-
Ma!t. sgricultu-ral- pr3dutsi    21 3      312      71,3     1,233     -,1'IL  :,94.      9.0     :6.3     13,.'     2.5      71.5     s.a     53
Other tgrlc-si:w-aIl products     1'       26        L5         91      120       L               ic 11   75.;7                 54      3.      1.9,
Var-h.utsaored goods              LO       iloG     353        500       710IC   57      23.3     29. 0-    1 610                      2.     
Al: Other goods                   16        29       97f       153      20C.     6653            27.7                           5.6     7,3     3
7otal Nerci. .-po-rts (fob)        o      -,q7    1=.2-      1,9       ,1       t3       1.       0           ~      1        1.       0.
Merchandise T'rade -nd1ces                   Average 196-7-60 - 1-00
Emportt PrI-ce Index7 =39                                     39      27       352        -.
Import, Prttce Index            91.3     93.'    21.3        273      313    L1.15 1.5
Ter:is of Trade 3d ex          6z6.2    10.       7c.3        33       3 
Extocrts Volxae loe              33     11        167        20C.     223       7*                           . 
VALZ671 AOPr BY SECT0             Anul at a: 196f-091 ?r2.ces an: Exchang3e Sat es          A.vera-e 'u- *r -t        -'s      snercent of total
-~        126       71        5124  12         30         3                          -        '5      '
Agriculture  'i66           -                  667 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ''6  1'' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . 
inoustry and Minir.g            17         7       .5 -
ServIlce                        50        6       .5        .6S      1,411.  1.09        7         7
To:ta1                        I7-7 IA?           1.9-5      2'L      1Th       7                                             .5-'    5
?ySLTC 1772241E                                                                                                                   P.s 'trent of Gu-
(cntal0vernmer.t)
-urent Seepo23                          27        377        L~       535      6c 
-uen    Recendlnuts             2115      21       30          33       33 4
O)ther ?ablic Sector             21.      72        95        131     l151      312       1 r                3 
P?blil  Sector Investment,      96      1          9          9        3        0       11V1.              .        23       31      1.
DETAIL 0N                                 US   m il lions
COIRREBY ExflVSTlRn DETAILS                   Actual       Etsn Bt.           ?rt~3.       PUBLIC SECTOR                        at end 1968 P and ER
An { total Cu-rrent Exted)1S                    190       17        96      I 3: C       MISESTrWEMT PROGPsy                      Pan 1,1M
Other Sco;al ServIces      33.t~~  11 ~1      11.3     '' "     '> -         Agricultural deelo!pa:                   349               3
AnCr:oult.ire                           1.6      32        3.6       .5       .3Economic inlrastrucoure                           561               10
F~Iz1:o lo-ra                           3.      10.3       6.5      6,        .            - Power                         130              1 2
Other Ecor.omi: Serviices               3.3      7.1.     10).2    10.0     10.0           - Industro;                      696
Adn-r.1st,rstion and Defense           -37.0    23.3      21.9     22.0    215.0C          - Transport and Telecom-        221              20
O3ther                                  1~.s    15.5      -(-       '.C     2.             - Urban Development             137,             13
Total Current Expendlitures      7 3.3   3200        C103.0  1007.  103 .0 C        Education and Culture                     101               9
Health and Social_Develop.                 53               5
SElECTD I!I3CA00RS                                1960-     1965-     2.970.  1973-        Administraccon roirascructure             464
'Calculated from 3-year averaged data)            196$      3970     1975     3 97k        Studies and Researci                      1
Average 1COR                                                 2.:7-    3.1397123                                                                      150
Thsport E-las9tcitv                               0.3'~      1.L      0.9     0.9          itSIN
~rgtrnal 02nesitic Savo,ngs Rata                  0.13       0.22     0. 33   0.2              Public Sector Savings                552               19.6
Margot.al N.ational 5a7u-.gs 5iate                0.32       0.6       .21    0.23             Program aid counterpart               -
Foreign Project Aid                  566               50.4
Total                              1,123              100.0
1.ABC. FORCE AIN                               Total Labor Force                               alu~I,e Added Per 'Wor)ie (43E    C,  P-r ices  (cIt. Rates)
OUTC?Tl 'ER 539155               In M,Illon.s        I of Total          193 -7  3        in lJ.S.Ocilars     Percent of Aver, gec      19   -
lq ~  1973  ~1965          1973   Growth B-ate       1961       1977       1961 -    1973~     Growth Rate
Agriculture                    1,713      2,0C93   83.7      62.3          3.2            209        211E       ,.3,.      30~.6         0.3
industry                        313        231L    7.6        9.2         6.1           1.210     1.513       23b.,0     215.2         -1.0
lervien                         107         so:c    6.7       3.0          5,3          303        .35         761,6 6E     23 E,
Total'                          -1 2,013  Sit     1=00      1 30.          3.             517        70        i2.       13.03.
not applicable        - n-it or negslgsbt-e           1:Cc"tee' :ccoa. tint=er, palm oi1, palm inrrne.. copra. plneapplo.                    Februaryr 19'7
not svailablle       -- less titan half the
snaallest unit shown



-21-
aLLA13~ 0F ?Afl(OS,      2(81. AS8STAICE 82(D M
(aoccnte in Mu-M.ho  of 12.3. Catsat cirrent prices 
Actual1                      SatimAted                                 Pro looed                                 Aj   t  . =.J
S2I9(.3. 81.0.5  OF PAn-.Ts
605.8       710. 9     1,t23.8    1,307.2       1,534..2    1,7546.41 . 0r, S2.     2,'7.      2,73~5. 0    ,.6                        16
Isseret (not)                         -11.?      -.16.3       -25.6       -34.9        -55.2        .69.3      .81.5       .98.1       1)   -117.  ui1       .90 .4         2! 
Dtrwot in-tn,t Tzcom                  -111.4     _42.4        .80.4       -83.6        -.90        .10 6.8    .116.4      .126.9      - 158 !     - 15o 0    .162 .9         B. 
Wo~rkers' 8001ttooma                  .67.6      .92.1        5233.5     -126.83      .112.3       -12.59.     .162.9      -1.72.7    -183. 1     -132.22     -199.9         5. 9
Cu=-t  "Vmfa,   (no  2.o     24.                     I'm          4.95.      -2   q.     .2.          1.48      ___      
5.1.... oCurrent3  A 2.at             10.1r      -                       *:     ~    ____                                                         ___
Prisut. Direct lcle.ftt                11.8       11.7         1.8.0o      27.9         29.14        6o.0o       67.2      11 3.53     166.1       9.3.. i     111           ,
OrfrcOo.2 Capital Q..U                 15.0        15. 1       1.7. 1      14..6        19. 7        19. 6       19.6       19.6        196         i12.        10. 6        2.
PN'ih, SILT L.0a00
Diab-.14M.                 ICT-107.    82.7        228.0       218.8         331.6       378.8       365,.2     158.0       652.3-      632.7      055.3~         3 i
-2.1  38.6        -11.3       -76.6        .81.8       .125.0      .124.0      .152.6     .215.2     .092         .211 9       -21.7
Other '1LT1 Loano                                                                                                                        2           3.        L 
Rocoontsenn                           .5         -.          -2.       - -2            .                                                                                  -7-1C 11
.Re.aus6lto                .~~~~~~~~~~-3 . - =.   -r.2.7        .1.2         -9.3                                            42.                     -. -2
r,opital Trsal1oo5....4.                         .23.5        .15.1       3'2.3        .64 9          . 
C1arg. in Not Rev-se-- sce0e           1-1.5      71.9         10.3       -87.3        166.1.       .98.2       -87.1      .3.         .11-0O. 50.
or.  8rnnrc                            89.5        871.2        88.'.      65.7         100.8
AN311 Q.7 12A3.5  K-a1--                                                                                                                           Actl.a
002l1~1.  -no & 005-limke             13.0       15.1         1.7.1       17.0         19.1                                                       UM.2.::               19 2_
Tois 151.2c"s2,5 1.sc                                       .4        2 6          15-       D8A -rn         MM                                786      7-67 ,.
ORIqt                                213        1.             .1        2.           3.         =Ilet~t Out. &    oburned   351.7     39.?     77.        3. ,.
ISA                   .           .           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.s~~-                    00 jteeto  Public Debt  10.6  19.3     27.9       3.3        '.
Ot1.r                                 3.9        1.69        52.8        52 .3                    Reamet     n  ulc ot        29         3.6      443e
Otn   tiIaeral_1.5                                                                                                                                      764.0       3-
00505550500                oO~~   ~   ~~~~    ~   ~~.S  16.2 ~  25.2  18.1   51.0        Tolal Public Debt Service   11.7-     37.9     722      11.         13.6
S.pplior.                            26.7        15.1        72.9        89.9        171.2        0tb.r Debt Serelue (not)     3.3       5.3       2.7       4.2        1
Finan.ial In1tituti,o-               15~.0      62.3        11.9.1      130. 6        86.7        Toa  Debt S.ry3cea (rat)    53.0      65.5       0.     119.1       143.5
?3.ll2c  100.50 t.e.1.  .         .           -           .~~~~~~9.     -       &Ode. 00 RW'rt S.s-dogs 9
Toa.  51. A Slc&iT .03a1.            r!9.       198.4        27.9       -37.          4t579       Public Debt SerVi.e           7.5       8.1       7.2      1.0         9.9
Ac tuol DebtOtstanding o  i~rl 5           Tota  Debt Swvetn            8.9       a.3       7.5       8.3        9.2
UTMqAL DgM                            6r30,03  Eb  Ottaoin  5 A.  5  17                   ?-iroct            a.        15.9      11.7     13.       11.1        17
I1.rld Bw,01                                   72.6                     7.5
MA                                  I~~         ~          ~~~~~~~~.,  0.1           Avrage larva of Public Debt
otler Matulotea,al                              65.5                    6.                          lot. as 9 D01.D               4.4      1.3       1.8       -.25.
OusslIers                         ~~~~~~~~~~                              ~~~~~~~269.2~  27.8  Aet  *9053j                     90        77       1.            .
?isu.. lal Thotituticnf                       271.5                    28.0                       In   nast Out. & D1.burood
Bonds                             ~~~~          ~~~~~25.2   2.4                           jo M9 Public Debt. Oa.      3.0      4.4       5.0       6.7          .
Public  ot s1                                  32.L-                      ,. s                             Public Debt. Service  1.5       2.6       5.5       1.7 
Total Pull, 51.17 SolO      989.2                  ~~~~100.0
Other .12ar Debt.                                                        ]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Dest Out. & 0i0bs"oed
O~.Stie- .11 Debtc (.. b.. .y1as%                                                                         Publls Debt 01.
Olost-ter,, 5~~~~1t (AId. un1~~~~c)  ..      ..                         o 00 9 ~~PN'I. Dest Service
ncOt appllc.ble                                              a  stff tstito~t                                                                                        OvlS,anj 177
lot osuOlaOlle                                                  nil c- nglOgible
not available sspm-atmjy                                    -.Iwo then half the
but ScL-d.d L,s tatal                                           smaLlost unit1 hobe



- 22 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of July 31, 1977)
US$ Millions
Loan or                                                   (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year    Borrower         Purpose          Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Eight       Loans   Fully Disbursed                   45.5
667-2-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast      Education         2.2                  0.3
686-IVC      1970   Ivory Coast      Cocoa             5.3                  0.7
760-IVC     1971    SODEPALM         Oil Palm &        5.1                  0.2
Coconut
761-IVC     1971    Ivory Coast      Highways II      20.5                  0.2
837-IVC      1972   Ivory Coast      Highways III     17.5                  2.2
938-IVC      1973   SOCATCI          Rubber            8.4                  2.1
406-IVC      1973   Ivory Coast      Highways IV                7.5         2.7
981-IVC      1974   Ivory Coast      Telecom-         17.4                 17.1
munications
1069-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast      Cocoa II         20.0                 17.2
1076-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast      Abidjan           9.0                  7.3
Sewerage
1977-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast      Cotton           31.0                 29.2
1124-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast      Tourism           9.7                  9.5
1125-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast      Education II      5.0                  4.2
1161-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast      Highways V       43.0                 35.0
1162-IVC     1975   CCI              DFC               5.6                  5.6
1177-IVC     1975   BIDI             DFC               8.0                  8.0
1297-IVC/1   1976   CIMAO             Industry         3.5                  3.5
1347-IVC/1   1976   Ivory Coast      Urban Dev.       30.0                 30.0
1348-T-
IVC/1  1976    Ivory Coast      Urban Dev.       14.0                 14.0
1382-IVC/1   1977   SODEPALM          Oil Palm &
Coconut          20.0                 20.0
TOTAL                                      320.7      7.5       209.0
of which has been repaid              11.5       -
TOTAL now outstanding                      309.2      7.5
Amount sold                      4.1 /2
of which has been repaid   2.9          1.2      -
TOTAL now held by Bank & IDA               308.0     7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                          206.3     2.7        209.0
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Last available figure of June 30, 1977.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of July 31, 1977)
Year     Obligor                         Type of       Loan    US Dollars   Total
Business                Equity
1965     Banque Ivoirienne              Industrial       -       204,000   204,000
de Developpement             Development
Industriel                   Bank            _
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles                 880,000   880,000
Total gross commitments                         -    1,084,000 1,084,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                   _      _          _
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                   -    1,040      L084,000



- 24 -
ANNEX II
C. Prolects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 760           First Oil Palm and Coconut Prolects:    Three loans for a
total of US$17.1 million of June 13, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975. Second Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:
Two loans for a total of US$7.0 million of June 22, 1971;
Closing Dates: June 30, 1975, and November 30, 1977.
These projects are being implemented satisfactorily. Four loans are fully
disbursed. The oil mills financed in these projects processed about 220,000
tons of fruits in 1976. The planting programs are proceeding well.
Ln. No. 667           First Education Prolect: US$11.0 million Loan of April 27,
1970; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Construction work for all project schools has been completed and the schools
have been in operation since October 1975. The technology institute at
Abidjan was completed and has been in operation since October 1975. Construc-
tion of the ITV complex is completed but will not be in operation before
November 1977. This tranche of the loan is full disbursed.
Ln. No. 667-2         Supplementary Financing for the First Education Project:
US$2.2 million Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
At appraisal of the First Education Project, the US dollar was worth 247 CFA
francs. When the project cost was recalculated in October 1971, the exchange
rate was US$1 = CFAF 277. Then the dollar dropped substantially to about 225
CFA francs in January 1975. In the fall of 1974 the Government requested
supplementary financing to offset the increase in the project's dollar cost
due to currency realignments.
Ln. No. 686           Cocoa Project:   US$7.5 million Loan of June 5. 1970;
Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
The Cocoa Loan has been amended to reduce the number of hectares to be rehabil-
itated. Difficulties arose in supervising large numbers of farmers who used
project inputs to treat non-project cocoa. The Government agreed to substan-
tially reduce the size of the rehabilitation program. (See Memorandum to the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Executive Directors R73-74 of April 13, 1973.) The project was originally
scheduled to be completed in September 1976. However, with the signing of
the Second Cocoa Project (Ln. 1069-IVC), administration of the two has been
combined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa plantings were transferred from
the first to the second project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from
the amendment (R73-74) and the merging of the two projects were cancelled
at the date of signature of the second project. Physical execution of the
first project is therefore considered to be completed. The final disburse-
ment has been delayed due to a confusion over documentation requirements and
processing by the Government external debt agency. When this disbursement,
and the final payment of capitalized interest have been made, approximately
US$200,000 would remain for cancellation.
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Proiect:   US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:   US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
The maintenance and betterment programs are progressing satisfactorily. Con-
struction work for the pavement strengthening program started in March 1975;
contract amount is about 120 percent over appraisal estimates due to inflation
and modification of design standards. The Government has agreed to finance
all overruns. Construction of the bridge and the urban development study for
Abidjan have been satisfactorily completed.
Cr. No. 406           Fourth Highway Project: US$7.5 million Credit of June 28,
1973; Effectiveness Date: May 8. 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Construction works on the road started about one year behind schedule and
progress since then has been slower than expected. Project costs are about
70 percent above appraisal estimates due to inflation and adoption of higher
construction standards than originally envisaged. The Government will assume
financing of all cost overruns. Construction of the N'zi River bridge and
the feeder road study have been satisfactorily completed.
Ln. No. 938           Rubber Plantation Project:   US$8.4 million Loan of
October 23. 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to slow progress in the planting program and as a result of higher-than-
expected inflation, funds under this project will only cover plantation of



- 26 -
ANNEX II
about 7,000 ha which is not expected to be completed before 1979 (the total
foreseen at appraisal was 13,500 ha). Co-lenders met in January 1976 to
decide on the continuation of the planting program. The Bank has agreed
to amend the Loan Agreement to reflect the reduced planting (Memorandum
to the Executive Directors R-76-240 of September 29, 1976).
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Government has awarded the contract for switching equipment to other than
the lowest evaluated bidder. Thus the amount earmarked under this loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) has been
cancelled as of May 17, 1977 (R77-128). Financing by the Bank of the remaining
three components is expected to proceed in accordance with the guidelines.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975: Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
More than 50 percent of the total planting foreseen for the five-year project
period was completed in 1976. Block plantings have been lagging behind due to
difficulties in infrastructure development. Disbursements are currently two
years behind project execution due to problems in establishing a system to
provide the necessary documentation and format for withdrawal applications. A
recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement to have withdrawal
applications prepared by the executing agency should speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1076          Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:   US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After about one year's delays due to procurement decisions, the project is now
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:   US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Physical progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of overestimated
increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has caused problems.
Although the village water supply and feeder road program was originally
delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken to implement both programs.
Disbursements are currently two years behind project execution due to problems
in establishing a system to provide the necessary documentation and format for
withdrawal applications. A recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amortis-
sement to have withdrawal applications prepared by the executing agency should
speed up the process.



- 27
ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:   US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Three sub-projects (US$2.9 million, US$2.5 million and US$400,000) have been
approved.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:   US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Good progress is being made in provision of technical assistance. The studies
of regional training needs, legislation for vocational training and management
of educational TV are under way; plans are well advanced for the preparation of
an inventory of secondary school facilities. The design of project institutions
is some twelve months behind schedule, but is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:   US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Anyama-Agboville road and the pavement strengthening pro-
gram started at the beginning of 1976. Consultants have started the engi-
neering studies provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to
finance the updating of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack
of funds. The Government has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include
financing of the survey in this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Proiect:   US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The first sub-project has been approved; others are being prepared by Credit
de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial intermediary, and are expected to
be submitted to the Bank shortly.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The first sub-project has been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1297 1/       CIMAO Project:  US$3.5 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The first regional industrial venture in West Africa, co-financed by seven
other official aid agencies, is proceeding satisfactorily. Financing arrange-
ments are on schedule. Procurement is proceeding according to plan: the most
important contract - for raw mills and kilns - has been awarded.



_ 28 -
ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1347 1/ Urban Development Project:    US$44.0 million.   Loans (US$30.0
and 1348-T 1/    million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third Window terms
respectively) of December 15, 1976; Closing Date:    December 31,
1980.
The East-West Highway contract and most of the contracts for studies and tech-
nical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1382 1/ Fourth Oil Palm Project: US$20 million Loan of March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Plantation for the first year is progressing satisfactorily.
l/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
IVORY COAST
Secondary Centers Water Supply Project
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
SECTION I
Timetable of Key Events
a) Project Identification
i)  identification mission                          February 1975
ii)  feasibility studies                             March to
(financed under Loan 1076-IVC)                  October 1975
b)  Preappraisal Mission                                  June 1975
c)  Appraisal Mission                                    December 1975 1/
d)  Post-Appraisal Missions                              March, June and
September 1976
d)  Negotiations Completed                               June 1977
f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                           October 1977
SECTION II
Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank would assist the Government with:
a) updating and revising its annual water supply investment plan;
b) preparing bidding documents;
c)  advice to SAH on the expansion of its financial department;
d) reviewing feasibility studies for water supply systems in centers
to be selected during project implementation.
1/   Time lag between appraisal and negotiations due to insufficient avail-
ability of project data in the Ivory Coast and continual changes in the
sector investment program.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
SECTION III
1.        Special conditions included in the Loan Agreement are that:
a)   SAH's financial department would be strengthened (para. 27);
b)   CAA would hire by March 31, 1978 a financial expert with
experience in the water supply and sewerage sectors to be
financed under the proposed loan (para. 31);
c)   FNH would prepare a pro-forma consolidation of sector accounts,
no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year
(para. 31);
d)   by carrying out the proposed project the Government adopt a
policy providing for construction of one public standpipe per
1,000 unserved inhabitants (para. 36);
e)   the "Comite Interministeriel de Coordination du Financement
des Investissements Publics" would review the combined
water supply and sewerage investment and financing plans
for their compatibility (para. 40);
f)   the water sector development program would be updated and
rephased by December 31, 1978 (para. 44);
g)   the contribution of villages toward cost of well constructions
and the feasibility of establishing a village well maintenance
tax should be studied in the context of a tariff study to be
financed under the proposed loan (para. 45);
h)   SAH would implement a training program to be financed under the
proposed loan (para 48);
i)   financing of water supply systems in centers to be selected
during project implementation would be subject to Bank approval
(para. 48);
j)   revenues from the water surcharge, including, if necessary, prior
years' accumulated surpluses and cash received from other sources,
cover at any time the sector's debt service and FNH's estimated
operating expenses for the following year. FNH would, however,
maintain at any time a reserve equivalent to the sum of two months
debt service requirements and estimated operating expenses of
FNH (para. 51);
k)   outstanding debt with an original maturity of les than seven years
would be reduced to and thereafter maintained at a maximum of 5
percent of total outstanding principal (para. 51);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
1)   the Government would adjust the water surcharge as required
to provide revenues sufficient 'to yield a rate of return of not
less than three percent on the current value of the average
net fixed assets of the urban water supply sub-sector
(para. 52); and
2.        A special condition of effectiveness would be that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government and FNH has been duly ratified and
entered into by all parties concerned (para. 50).
3.        A special condition of disbursement for centers not yet identified
would be that the Bank has approved the package of all these centers (para.
48).






IVORY COAST  - --  - I  -                  0                     3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD 12765
SN      A   -l   -           --                   __-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
SECONDARY CENTERS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                  SSEE51-N
Location of Water Supply Systems ondP                                             ROE'
A   Pr?L cs    NIN                                 ECOLOGICAL ZONES BOUNDARIES
M  A  L           ,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'--o~~~~~~~~~~ ~RAINBFAILLIN   MIIMNJSETERS
Q                         -                          - -   IRRERNATIOBJAL  EOIJNDAR,ES
ION         0          ~~~~~~0 10
Pt  SNTNNI gElD  ANtITO       E.~~IEENt,NNNO  UPPER  V LA ,j - -~ --.
ETdN  ED                                           >       OLTA S--v/
0           o~~~~~~~~ .
CNN NEaT  C~~5fl      NTIS           5~N'.(N
(9   0~~~~~~~ S NNMNNNTAN               F-                                          . AV A N 
N--      ID   E-NNIN.O,N
DANAN ~    \ENINDBD                  ENT5AD                 
>I -TTENO   0ESIN         N.                                   D... N
0~~~~~~~
TEERA         0      0                T.  TN  %t
(    O     E S   O....                                        N N
Q    , -s, N, A-aD
ANNNNQ    NO           OSNENRIN   o'ANR,NThN  0:  T  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~')'.OP
NN  a                                             flT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lp                                                         (D 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZNNNNE  lN
...   .     ND,  5-NaN-El,~ ~~~~A"..  Ad,
-     ONN~~~~~~~NN  ~ ~   ~    AROU- 
S 7  or"--i  B;-2< -M-z
0~~~~~~~~
S-TAIN                       AIW5D,L-
1                                           1~~~~~~           I  A-1 1.11~~~,NNNP  BN



