CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1484 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Secondary Centers Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 9, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1484 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 9, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF THE
IVORY COAST (hereinafter sometimes called the Borrower or the
Ivory Coast) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of a portion of the cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's
Service Autonome de 1'Hydraulique Humaine (hereinafter called SAH)
with the cooperation of Sociftg de distribution de 'eau de la
C8te d'Ivoire (hereinafter called SODECI) within the framework
of the Affermage Convention (as defined hereinafter) and the
Borrower will put at the disposition of SAH for the account of
Fonds National de 1'Hydraulique (hereinafter called FNH) the pro-
ceeds of the Loan as required for the execution of the Project,
which proceeds FNH will repay to the Borrower according to the FNH
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (as defined hereinafter); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Affermage Convention" means the Convention du Traitf
d'Affermage of June 25, 1974 between the Borrower and SODECI,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(b) "FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FNH
pursuant to Section 3.01 hereof.
(c) "CAA" means the Borrower's Caisse Autonome d'Amor-
tissement, an ftablissement public organized and existing under
the laws of the Ivory Coast.
(d) "FNA" means the Borrower's Fonds National de l'Assainis-
sement.
(e) "SETU" means Soci6t6 d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains.
(f) "FNH Law" means the Borrower's law No. 76-02 dated
January 2, 1976, pursuant to which FNH has been established, as
such law may be amended from time to time.
(g) "FNH Decree" means the Borrower's Decree No. 76-04
dated January 2, 1976, pursuant to which FNH has been organized,
as such decree may be amended from time to time.
(h) "Comit6 Interminist6riel" means the Comite Inter-
minist6riel de Coordination du Financement des Investissements
Publics, established pursuant to the Borrower's arret6
No. 1091 MEF/PLAN/BUDGET dated December 20, 1976.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Dank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through SAH and with the cooperation of SCDECI with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, and public utilities practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower (i) shall put at the disposition of SAH
for the account of FNH the proceeds of the Loan which will be
repaid to the Borrower by FNH under terms and conditions set forth
in a FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and FNH
satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) shall cause SAH to execute the
Project in the time provided under the terms and conditions of the
FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations
under the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Affermage Conven-
tion. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the FNH Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or the Affermage Convention or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist SAH in carrying out
Parts D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, through
SAH, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the studies included in Parts
D and E of the Project to be carried out under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and to be completed on or before Decem-
ber 31, 1978 (or such other date as the Bank may agree).
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity sh:ll be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that SAH furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
meat schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Pro. 2t; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)


﻿-5-
shal, furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the financial
department of SAH to continue to be staffed at all times with
qualified and experienced personnel in sufficient numbers. To that
end, the Borrower shall cause such department to employ on or
before March 31, 1978 (or such other date as the Bank may agree)
an additional financial expert and one additional engineer
specialized in contract preparation and administration, such
engineer to be experienced and duly qualified.
(b) Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall continue to employ, for the purpose of assisting SAH,
a consultant whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall implement, according to a timetable
acceptable to the Bank, the recruitment and training program for
the gradual staffing of SAH with Ivorian nationals, as such
program has been submitted to the Bank on or before Decem-
'Jer 31, 1977 (or such other date as the Bank may agree).
Section 3.07. After completion of the tariff study included
in Part E (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall, on or before
July 31, 1979 (or such other date as the Bank may agree) review,
in consultation with the Bank, the findings included therein, the
steps necessary to implement the recommendations thereof and the
proposed timing of such implementation.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause CAA: (i) to employ
on or before March 31, 1978 (or such other date as the Bank may
agree) and, thereafter, continue to employ an additional financial
expert, with experience in the water supply, sewerage and drainage


﻿-6-
operations, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
and (ii) to make such expert available to both FNH and FNA.
Section 3.09. (a) Before constructing the water supply
systems referred to in Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through SAH, prepare (i) a brief report commenting on the techni-
cal and financial aspects of such systems, (ii) a cost summary
detailing the important cost elements and showing separately
physical and price contingencies, and (iii) a statement certifying
that the systems proposed are fully consistent with the criteria
set out in Schedule 5 hereto, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time with the Bank's prior approval.
(b) Upon review and subsequent approval by the Bank of
the proposed water supply systems, the Borrower shall, through
SAH, take all appropriate steps to promptly construct and/or
install the approved water supply systems in accordance with the
said criteria.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such
lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and
at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien of other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or bcnefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold acd other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower; provided, however, that for the purposes of this
Section, the term "entity" shall not apply to the Ivory Coast
State Companies which are organized as business corporations in
accordance with laws and regulations applicable to private com-
panies and whose activities are not reflected in the Borrower's
budget, except that the provisions of this Section shall apply to
any such entity to the extent that it would hold gold and foreign
exchange assets on behalf of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall use its best endeavors to
cause SODECI, within the framework of the Affermage Convention,
to operate and maintain the facilities included in the Project
in accordance with appropriate administrative, engineering and
public utility practices and with due regard to economy.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that SAH and
FNH i:aintain, and shall use its best endeavors to cause SODECI to
maintain within the framework of the Affermage Convention, records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices (including, without limitation,
appropriate depreciation accounting practices on fixed assets) the
operations (including those concerning fixed assets) of SAH and
the respective financial conditions of FNH and SODECI.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that FNH, and shall use its
best endeavors to ensure that SODECI within the framework of the
Affermage Convention: (i) have their respective accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, as
from calendar year 1977, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors


﻿-8-
acceptable to the Bank and have, for SODECI, the adequacy of its
costing system reviewed and commented thereon by said auditors;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of their respective financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the reports of such audits by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonbly requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
FNH and SODECI and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c) As from calendar year 1977, the Borrower shall require
FNH, not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
to consolidate yearly, on a pro forma basis, the foregoing
accounts and, to that end, the Borrower shall cea;se FNH to use tht-
foregoing audited reports.
Section 4.04. In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project
the Borrower shall ensure that each 1,000 persons not served by a
water house connection shall be served by at least one public
water standpipe and, for that purpose, the Borrower shall promptly
cause to be taken all appropriate measures to ensure that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the municipal revenues shall at
all times be sufficient to permit the municipalities to cover
fully the cost of standpipe water consumption.
Section 4.05. As from calendar year 1978, the Borrower shall
entrust at all times the Comit6 Interminist6riel with the
review: (i) of the compatibility between the annual investment
and financing plans in the water supply sector and the sewerage
and drainage sectors; and (ii) of the compatibility between such
plans and the water supply tariffs.
Section 4.06. On or before December 31, 1978 (or such other
date as the Bank may agree) the Borrower shall update, and,
thereafter, at least once a year review and, if necessary, rephase
its water sector development program and, in so doing, shall take
into account the available resources of FNH and other sources of
financing and, as appropriate, the findings and recommendations
included in the study under Part E (i) of the Project.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all appropriate
measures to ensure that:


﻿9-
(a) as from the date hereof, no additional debt will be
incurred on account of water supply facilities unless the revenues
from the water surcharge for the fiscal year immediately preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever is the greater, are at any time suffi-
cient to cover the sum of the debt service requirements of the
subsequent fiscal year on account of water supply facilities
and FNH's estimated operating expenditures; it being understood
that such revenues shall be increased, as and when necessary,
by the aggregate amount of the then existing accumulated water
surcharge surplus and of cash received and providing, furthermore,
that the remaining balance of the accumulated water surcharge
surplus shall be no less than two months of the sum of such
subsequent debt service requirements and FNH's estimated operating
expenditures.
(b) notwithstanding the foregoing, tke water surcharge
rate will be increased, as and when needed, to produce revenues
sufficient to cover at all times the annual sum of the debt
service requirements on account of water supply facilities and
FNH's estimated operating expenditures; it being understood that
such revenues shall be increased, as and when necessary, by the
aggregate amount of the then existing accumulated water surcharge
surplus and of cash received and providing, furthermore, that the
remaining balance of the accumulated water surcharge surplus shall
be no less than two months of the sum of such subsequent debt
service requirements and FNH's estimated operating expenditures.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Debt" means any debt for whose service FNH is
responsible, maturing by its terms more than
one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement or guarantee agreement providing for such
debt.
(iii) "Revenues from the water surcharge" means the
revenues accruing to FNH from the water tariff,
such .revenues having been adjusted to take into
account the rate of the water tariff in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though


﻿- 10 -
such rate was not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate, less any portion which by virtue of
the decree establishing such tariff is intended
for purposes other than FNH's operating expendi-
tures and debt service requirements.
(iv) "Debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(v) "Operating expenditures" means the amounts to
be paid by FNH to CAA for administrative services
rendered by the latter to FNH.
(vi) "Accumulated surcharge surplus" means the total
amount actually held in FNH's accounts in cash
or other liquid reserves for the purpose of meeting
the debt service requirements and FNH's operating
expenditures.
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all measures (including but not limited to
adjustments of the water surcharge component of the water supply
tariff) as shall be required to provide net revenues to yield,
for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 1978, and subsequent
fiscal years, a return of not less than 3% per annum on the
current value of its average net fixed water supply assets in
service.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) That part of the expenditures of the Borrower
(operating through SAH) that is incurred for,
and related to, the creation of fixed water supply
assets shall be added to the value of said assets.
(ii) The annual return shall be calculated in respect
of each fiscal year by relating net revenues
before interest and other charges on debt for that
year to the average of the current value of net
fixed assets in service at the beginning and at the
end of that year.


﻿- 11 -
(iii) "Current value of net fixed assets" means the
gross value of fixed assets for the urban water
supply sub-sector as revalued from year to year,
less the accumulated depreciation amounts revalued
in respect of such assets, based on appropriate
methods of valuation acceptable to the Bank.
(iv) "Water surcharge component of the water tariff"
means the portion of the water tariff which by
virtue of the decree establishing such tariff is
intended for the purpose of meeting FNH's operating
expenditures and debt service requirements.
(v)  "Net revenues" means the annual revenues from
the water surcharge component of the water tariff
less the operating expenditures of FNH and the
non-capitalized portion of the operating expendi-
tures of the Borrower (operating through SAH)
related to water supply activities, other than
those incurred in the exercise of its water supply
regulatory functions, and further reduced by the
amount of annual depreciation on the fixed water
supply assets.
(vi) "Debt", "Debt service requirements" and "FNH's
operating expenditures" have the respective
meanings set forth in Section 4.07 hereof.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall not permit FNH, after
the date hereof, to incur any additional debt having an original
maturity of less than 7 years until FNH's aggregate principal
amount of outstanding debt having such a maturity shall have been
reduced to the equivalent of 5%, or less, of the aggregate princi-
pal amount of all outstanding debt incurred by FNH.
(b) As and when the above test has been met, the Borrower
shall not permit FNH, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
to incur any additional debt having an original maturity of
less than 7 years if, after the incurring of such debt, the
FNH's aggregate principal amount of debt having such a maturity
and then incurred and outstanding would be greater than the
equivalent of 5% of the aggregate principal amount of all out-
standing debt then incurred by FNH.
Section 4.10. In the event the Affermage Convention, or
any provision thereof, is not renewed as and when it terminates in


﻿- 12 -
accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall make arrangements
for the carrying on, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, of the operations theretofore carried out by SODECI
pursuant to the provisions of the Affermage Convention.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or FNH, as the case may be, shall have
failed to perform any of their respective covenants, agreements or
obligations under the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that FNH shall be able to perform its
obligations under the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreeement.
(c) The Affermage Convention or the Borrower's arr6t6
No. 1091 MEF/PLAN/BUDGET, dated December 20, 1976 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, rescinded or waived in such a way
as to materially end adversely affect the operation and mainten-
ance of the facilities constructed under the Project or the
ability of the Borrower to fulfill its obligations hereunder, as
the case may be.
(d) The FNH Law or the FNH Decree or the FNH Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall have been amended materially,    suspended, abro-
gated, rescinded, repealed or waived, without the Bank's prior
approval.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FNH, or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and FNH; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the FNH Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been
duly entered into by all parties concerned and authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action and
all conditions, if any, precedent to disbursement thereunder shall
have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the FNH Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all parties
concerned and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 9, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie et
des Finances
B.P. 1766
Abidjan
Ivory Coast


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFIN                            MINIFIN 747
Abidjan                            Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
By /s/ Timothee N'Guetta Ahoua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to lb
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
a.-iounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               4,800,000           60%
(2) Laying of Pipes           1,600,000           40%
(3) Equipment                 6,200,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
or 80% of local
expenditures
for locally
procured goods
(4) Technical                 1,600,000           100% of foreign
Assistance                                   expenditures or
80% of local
expenditures
(5) Unallocated               1,800,000
TOTAL    16,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of


﻿- 16 -
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such cur-
rency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditure," means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied 1iy, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (i)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, and (ii)
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $5,800,000, shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures required for the water supply systems referred to in
Part C of the Project only as and when the Bank shall have been
satisfied that such water supply systems meet the criteria set
out in Schedule 5 hereto.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until.
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 17 -
6.   If t.he Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
7.   If the water supply systems referred to in Part C of the
Project do not meet the criteria set out in Schedule 5 hereto on
or before August 1, 1979, or such other date as the Bank may
agree, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with
respect to such systems. Upon the giving of such notice the amount
of the Loan corresponding to such systems, as determined by the
Bank, shall be cancelled.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The improvement and extension o' existing water supply
systems in ten secondary centers including the construc-
tion of two small earth dams with reservoir capacity
of 5.4 and 3.0 million m3, improvement of river intake
works and wells, supply and installation of 22 pumps
with capacity ranging from 30 to 150 m3 per hour,
construction of three reservoirs with capacity of 80,
200 and 300 m3, construction of two elevated storage
tanks with capacity of 300 and 400 m3, procurement and
laying of about 25 km of pipes with diameters ranging
from 60 to 100 mm, supply and installation of 13 public
standpipes, and construction of 22 houses and 7 offices
at plant sites;
Part B:
The construction and installation of new water supp. v
systems in five secondary centers including the drilling
and equipment of seven wells, supply and installation of
chlorination equipment, construction of five elevated
storage tanks with capacity ranCing between 75 and 150
m3, supply and laying of about 50 km of pipe with
diameters between 60 and 125 mm, supply and installation
of 12 public standpipes and construction of five houses;
Part C:
The improvement and extension of existing water supply
systems and/or the construction and installation of new
systems in a number of secondary centers unidentified
at the date hereof and to be selected hereafter in
accordance with the criteria set forth in Schedule 5
hereto;
Part D:
Feasibility and detailed engineering studies for Part C
and construction supervision for Parts A, B and C of the
Project;


﻿- 19 -
Part E:
(i) Updating the Borrower's water supply sector develop-
ment program, including inter alia investment and
financing plans required therefor, for the period up to
1985, and (ii) undertaking a tariff study for the water
supply, sewerage and drainage sectors to include inter
alia the tariff structure as well as the prospective
tariff level requirements;
Part F:
Increasing the FNH's and FNA's personnel in the area of
the financing of the water supply, sewerage and drainage
sectors; and
Part G:
Training abroad of Ivorian nationals of SAH.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1981
through   December 15, 1993                  595,000
On June 15, 1994                                  530,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable *on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                        1.40%
before maturity
More than three years but                        2.80%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                      5.20%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                       7.05%
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years                          8.00%
before maturity


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works and
laying of pipes included in the Project shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines) on the basis of international competitive bidding,
ad described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.        (i) Bidders for the civil works included in the
Project shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines; and
(ii) Civil works, laying of pipes and the supply of
equipment and pipes for the Project will be
grouped into lots of sufficient size to attract
both local and foreign suppliers and contractors.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference fur
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Ivory Coast of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Ivory Coast may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 23 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Ivory Coast and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Ivory Coast equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Lhe Ivory Coast.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Ivory Coast shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list


﻿- 24 -
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Ivory Coast
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Ivory Coast's    decision, and the Ivory Coast shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Ivory Coast shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitatic as to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Ivory
Coast shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Ivory Coast and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,


﻿- 25 -
the Ivory Coast shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Ivory Coast and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿.- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for the Selection of New Water Supply Systems
under Part C of the Project
A.   Priority
Such water supply systems will be selected from the
latest available priority list prepared and released by the
Borrower.
B.   Least Cost Criteria
For each water supply system, the alternative to be
selected among different technical alternatives will be that
with the lowest present value of incremental capital invest-
ments and operational expenses during the selected design
period, discounted at a rate equal to 10% or such other
opportunity cost of capital funds in the Ivory Coast, as may
be agreed upon from time to time between the Borrower and
the Bank.
C.   Financial Criteria
The following criteria will be used for each water
supply system to be included in Part C of the Project,
provided that in the case of extensions the criteria will
be applied to the entire water supply system of which the
extension is a part:
(i) the water supply system's capital cost per capita
of the population served by that system will not
exceed by more than 30% the average capital cost
per capita for each type of system; it being
understood that the cost curves required therefor
will be submitted from time to time to the Bank to
obtain its prior approval; and
(ii) each new center and the extension facilities in the
case of an existing center will show at least
a positive rate of return. The rate of return is
defined as the marginal discount rate which equal-
izes the present value of costs and the present
value of total marginal revenues from the water
tariff plus connection charges, if any. Those costs


﻿- 27 -
and revenues will be calculated in constant prices
with costs net of taxes and duties. Those costs
will include:
(A) capital costs of production, treatment,
storage and distribution facilities plus
connections and meters;
(B) operating costs of treatment and pumping;
(C) maintenance costs of all facilities;
(D) administrative costs directly associated with
the centers; and
(E) SODECI net profit equal to the product of
the costs (defined in (B), (C) and (D)
above) and the gross margin (as stipulated
in the Affermage Convention) less the income
tax payable by SODECI.
For the purpose of calculating the rate of return the study
life will be taken as 40 years with allowance made for the identi-
cal replacement of equipment having a shorter life. Growth in
production will be considered up to the design capacity of the
facilities to be provided under the Project.


