Page  1
1
CHAD: Institutional Reform Support Credit       
29176
 
Project Information Document 
 
May 24, 2004 
 
Report 
No: 
  PIDXXX 
Project Name: 
 
 
Republic of Chad, Institutional Reform Support Credit 
Region:    Africa 
Sector:    Multisectoral 
Project 
ID 
   P083711 
Implementing Agency: 
Cellule Economique 
 
Ministry of Plan, Development and Cooperation 
 
N’Djamena, Chad 
 
Tel. 235 52 61 81 
Date prepared: 
 
 
May 18, 2004 
Appraisal date: 
 
 
April 4-15 2004 
Projected Board Date 
 
September 16, 2004 
 
Country Background 
 
1. 
Following nearly three decades of civil war, the government of Chad has maintained relative 
peace and stability since 1993. Since 1994, the authorities have established a solid macroeconomic track 
record. Real GDP growth averaged 3.5 percent per year in 1994-2000. According to current estimates and 
projections, GDP continued to grow at a strong sustained pace (9.9 percent) in 2002 and 2003, driven by 
oil-related investments and their spillover effects. Construction of the Chad-Cameroon pipeline was 
completed earlier than planned, one year ahead of schedule. Oil production began in July 2003 .  On 
October 3, 2003, Chad made its first sale of crude oil to world markets, marking the beginning of the 
project’s export phase.  Chad started to collect oil revenues in late November 2003. Consistently with the 
Petroleum Revenue Management Law adopted by the Chadian National Assembly in December 1998, 
these revenues have been deposited in an offshore escrow account at Citibank, London, and should be 
transferred to Chad as soon as the conventions governing bank accounts are signed with the Central Bank 
and selected commercial banks.  
2. 
The beginning of oil production and exports is expected to boost economic growth, with real GDP 
growth rate reaching 37.8 percent in 2004 and 13.2 percent in 2005. After 2006, GDP growth is expected 
to fall below 2 percent per year, due to the projected decline in oil production from the Doba fields. It is 
nevertheless anticipated that the growth in the non-oil sector will remained sustained, with non-oil GDP 
growth averaging 5.4 percent per year. As the construction phase of the pipeline project advanced, some 
macroeconomic risks emerged. Inflation, measured by the change in the CPI, accelerated in 2002, 
reaching 5.2 percent on average. Jointly with the appreciation of the euro against the dollar, this evolution 
resulted in a significant appreciation of the real exchange rate. These risks have nevertheless been 
monitored carefully and addressed. A sharp decline in inflation has been observed in 2003. Current 
estimates indicate that the consumer price index (based on prices in N’Djamena) would have overall 
declined by 1 percent during the year.  
Page  2
2
3. 
Fiscal policy has been broadly consistent with macroeconomic objectives. Government revenue 
performance, although still relatively weak, has improved continuously over the past years, although 
ongoing efforts need to be vigorously pursued to improve tax collection and customs operations. With the 
beginning of oil production and exports, macroeconomic imbalances are expected to be significantly 
reduced. The overall fiscal deficit excluding grants would decline from 10.8 percent in 2003 to 8.6 
percent in 2004 and about 6.5 percent in 2005-2006. The current account deficit (40.9 percent of GDP in 
2003) would be sharply reduced to 13.5 percent of GDP in 2004, 7.6 percent in 2005 and 7.3 percent in 
2006. 
4. 
The authorities finalized the full PRSP in June 2003, and the document was discussed at the Bank 
and Fund Boards in November 2003.  Chad’s HIPC Decision Point Document was approved by the Bank 
and Fund Boards in May 2001. In December 2001 and in March 2003, the Bank Board approved the 
Fourth and Fifth Structural Adjustment Credits, respectively. Over the past three years, assisted by SAC 
IV, SAC V, and the IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), Chad has made considerable 
progress in the implementation of its structural reform agenda. However, the pace has been slower than 
expected in several areas, notably the cotton sector reform and the civil service reform. The fifth review 
under the program supported by the PRGF was completed in July 2003. Considering that there was not 
enough time for measures to be taken to present a sufficiently strong case, the IMF did not complete the 
sixth review before the PRGF expires on January 6, 2004, which in effect withheld a disbursement of 
SDR 5.2 million. Article IV Discussions took place at the IMF Board on March 19, 2004, and it is 
expected that an IMF mission will take place in June 2004 to launch negotiations on a new PRGF 
arrangement. 
5. 
In the course of program preparation and implementation, the governance dialogue with the 
Government of Chad has evolved considerably, resulting in a frank and shared assessment of the major 
issues. As a consequence of this improved dialogue, considerable achievements were made under SAC IV 
and SAC V, notably the adoption of a National Governance Strategy, the organization of a national 
participatory Roundtable on the Justice sector, the publication of several major audit reports, and the full 
implementation of the Petroleum Revenue Oversight Committee. The authorities of Chad have also made 
significant progress in establishing sound modalities for managing oil revenues. Despite these 
achievements, governance problems remain important and deep-rooted as witnessed by the persistence of 
major issues in public procurement, highlighted in the reports published by the Chamber of Accounts and 
the General Finance Inspection Directorate of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. A revised 
procurement code was adopted in October 2003 by the Council of Ministers and signed by the Head of 
State in December 2003. Implementation decrees are under preparation and should be finalized by 
September 2004.  
6. 
As regards budget preparation and monitoring of execution, significant achievements have been 
made with the support of SAC IV, SAC V, and the Management of the Petroleum Economy project 
(GEEP), notably the introduction of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and the 
preparation of program budgets in key ministries for poverty reduction, the identification of capacity 
requirements in the area of budget management and the launching of recruitment and training of key staff 
in the newly created Financial and Administrative Directorates, the publication, albeit still with delays, of 
a
monthly table on budget execution, the computerization of the expenditure circuit, the completion of a 
public expenditure tracking survey in the health and education sectors, and the strengthening of the 
Chamber of Accounts of the Supreme Court and the General Finance Inspection Directorate.  
Page  3
3
7. 
Since the adoption of the new civil service status law in December 2001, implementation of the 
civil service reform program has been slow. With the support of SAC IV, SAC V, and the GEEP project, 
the civil service reform agency (CESRAP) has prepared implementation decrees and legal texts, and 
launched their review by a joint government-unions Civil Service Committee for consensus building 
purposes. Steps have also been taken towards the harmonization of the civil service and payroll files, 
which however, have been hampered by the fact that the civil service census of 2000, in the absence of a 
well-defined process to regularly update the data, has rapidly become outdated. An organizational audit of 
nine pilot ministries was completed in September 2003, and recommendations have set the stage for 
moving forward with the reform program. 
8. 
In  the cotton sector, the Government strategy of 2000 consists of a process of institutional 
changes to enh
ance farmers’ bargaining power and increase farmers’ incomes by (i) strengthening the role 
of farmers’ associations; and (ii) disengaging the state from cotton production and reviewing the industrial 
structure of the cotton sector. Chad has decided to pay particular attention to consensus building among 
all stakeholders all along the reform path. Under SAC IV and V, progress has been achieved, although the 
persistent financial difficulties of the state-owned company Cotontchad have contributed to delaying the 
reform process, which is now expected to be completed in 2005. Producers’ representatives were elected 
in the 5,000 cotton producing villages. The state has also withdrawn from price-setting in the sector, and 
the producers’ prices are henceforth determined by a 
Comité paritaire 
in which the producers’ 
organizations and Cotontchad are represented equally. The Oil and Soap Factory, which was legally 
separated from Cotontchad in early 2002, was privatized in June 2003. In addition, a comprehensive study 
has allowed to identify various scenarios for the reform strategy, as well as the necessary accompanying 
measures, and a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) of the reform is nearing completion.  
Objectives and description
 
9. 
Chad’s draft PRSP lays out a strategy focusing on five strategic axes and sixteen national 
objectives. Consistently with the goals set out in the PRSP and the Country Assistance Strategy which 
was presented to the Board on December 11, 2003, the proposed Credit would assist Chad in 
implementing two PRSP strategic objectives: (i) improving governance; and (iii) ensuring strong and 
sustained growth, especially in the rural sector. In that context, it would help the authorities to complete 
the implementation of the medium-term reform program set forth in SAC IV and SAC V, in order to help 
complete the transition to the oil era. The medium-term program of reforms for improved governance, 
focuses on: (i) enhanced transparency, accountability and adherence to the rule of law; (ii) more 
transparent, accountable and efficient use of public resources for poverty reduction through the reform of 
(a) budget preparation, execution, monitoring and reporting, (b) public procurement ; and (iii) more 
efficient and accountable civil service. The medium-term program of reforms supported by the IRSC for 
sustainable growth in rural areas includes measures aimed at contributing to a profound reform of the 
cotton sector. In each of these reform areas, particular attention is given to empowering the institutions 
(Chamber of Account, General Finance Inspection, Petroleum Revenue Oversight Committee, National 
Assembly, etc.)  that provide the checks and balances for the efficient management of resources for 
poverty reduction, as well as in civil society, including farmers’ associations. 
10. 
The reform program supported by this credit in 2004-2005 will also be supported by a new 
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility Program (PRGF), on which discussions are expected to 
commence in June 2004. The program is also tuned to the proposed outcome-oriented completion point 
triggers set out in the HPIC Decision Point Document.  Finally, this support will complement and enhance 
the impact of other Bank interventions, especially the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project, and 
Page  4
4
its associated petroleum revenue management program, the Management of the Petroleum Economy 
Project and additional financing that could be mobilized to continue supporting capacity-building 
activities, the capacity-building program of the World Bank Institute, and the Agricultural Services and 
Producers’ Organizations Project, as well as ongoing and future operations in the health, education, and 
transport sectors, and a planned community development project. 
11. 
Like its predecessors, the proposed Credit focuses on improving governance and strengthening 
public resource management with a view to establishing the financial safeguards for further program 
lending and sound management of government revenues in the oil era.  
Environmental  aspects 
12. 
The implementation of the reform program is not expected to have any negative environmental 
impact.  As regards the privatization of the oil and soap factory and the ginning activities of Cotontchad 
(scheduled for 2005), an environmental impact assessment of Cotontchad’s nine ginning factories has 
been completed. Upon its validation by the authorities and its finalization, an environmental guidance 
book will be prepared in early 2005 and the authorities will launch the recommendations of the audit.   
Benefits and risks 
13. 
Benefits
.
Successful implementation of the reform program will (i) result in better governance 
including, stricter adherence to the rule of law and more transparent and accountable use of public 
resources;  (ii) improve the Government’s efficiency and poverty reduction focus in delivering services in 
the priority sectors for poverty reduction, including health, education, basic infrastructure, justice and 
rural development; and (iii)  increase farmers’ bargaining power in the cotton sector, improve their access 
to inputs and management services, and enhance their productivity.   
14. 
Risks
.
There are substantial risks to the proposed operation.   
15. 
First, consistent implementation of the proposed agenda will depend on continued strengthening of 
the commitment to improved governance and sound oil revenue management. The risk of a weakening of 
this commitment will however be mitigated by continuing a close dialogue with the authorities, and 
promoting the role of civil society in checks and balances on the use of oil revenues. 
16. 
Second, the implementation of the government’s programs and related budgets could be hampered 
by the resurgence of instability at the North, East and South borders of the country. Chad is facing a 
difficult humanitarian and political situation in the Eastern part of the country, where about 110,000 
refugees from Sudan have settled in camps, fleeing the combats between the Sudanese army and rebel 
groups in the Darfour since February 2003. While these risks cannot be directly influenced by the Bank, 
the situation is not likely to worsen in the near future. A renewable 45-day cease fire agreement was 
signed on April 8, 2004 between the Sudanese Government and the rebel movement (Mouvement pour la 
justice et l'égalité and Mouvement de libération du Soudan) in Chad in April 2004. 
17. 
Third, successful achievement of the proposed program will require careful attention to consensus 
building and management of expectations of the population, which are high, following the beginning of 
oil production and the completion of the PRSP. Civil and social tensions could increase further notably 
following the current controversy around the constitutional amendment that will permit unlimited 
presidential term’s renewal and will allow President’s Deby to seek a third presidential mandate. Ensuring 
Page  5
5
that oil revenues are translated into visible results on the ground will be key in maintaining social 
stability. 
18. 
Fourth, the cotton sector reform program, which affects about 350,000 poor farm families, is 
inherently complex as it is being implemented in an environment of hardly functional rural markets. To 
mitigate the risks involved, it will be important to monitor the poverty impact of the reform program 
notably through the continuation of the Poverty and Social Impact Analysis, and to focus on required 
accompanying institutional, financial, technical and social measures, including infrastructures.  
19. 
Fifth, macroeconomic instability and/or a unexpected decline in oil prices could significantly 
affect program implementation, although these risks will be mitigated by the  sterilization and 
stabilization mechanisms for oil revenues established in July 2003 and cautious macroeconomic 
management. 
Contact Point:  
The Infoshop 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818
H
Street NW 
Washington DC, 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458 5454 
Fax: (202) 522 1500 
 
Team Leader: Christine Richaud  
Telephone (202) 458 7937  
Fax: (202) 473 8466 
 
wb106701 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb106701\My Documents\Christine\Chad\Institutional Reform Credit\Draft PID-Revised after appraisal.doc 
May 10, 2004 4:26 PM
 
