               Document of
              The World Bank




                                            Report No: 36604

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (IDA-40050)

                   ON A

                  CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION

           TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                  CHAD

                  FOR An

INSTITUTIONAL REFORM SUPPORT CREDIT (IRSC)




                June 28, 2006

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective 06/29/2006)

                  Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                        1 CFAF = US$ 0.002
                         US$ 1 = 522.2 CFAF

                        FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1st    December 31st

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   Gobind T. Nankani
              Country Director     Ali M. Khadr
               Sector Manager      Yvonne Tsikata
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Christine M. Richaud

                                              CHAD
                             Institutional Reform Support Credit


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Government's report (June 2006)
Annex 9. Structure of Public Expenditures
Annex 10. Rates of budget execution in priority and non-priority sectors
Annex 11. Recent evolution of key indicators in priority sectors
Annex 12. Governance indicators

Project ID: P083711                                                  Project Name: Chad: Institutional Reform Support
                                                                     Credit
Team Leader: Christine M. Richaud                                    TL Unit: OPCCE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Chad: Institutional Reform Support Credit                L/C/TF Number: IDA-40050
   Country/Department: CHAD                                                                Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (84%); Crops (8%); Agro-industry (4%); Law and justice
                            (2%); Oil and gas (2%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (P); Other public sector governance (S); Trade facilitation and market access
                            (S); Rural policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/08/2004                                     Effective:                           12/21/2004
     Appraisal: 04/01/2004                                         MTR:                             08/02/2005
      Approval: 11/30/2004                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF CHAD/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY; REPUBLIC OF
                                           CHAD/PLANNING AND COOPERATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Ali Khadr                                      Ali Khadr
Sector Manager:                 Yvonne M. Tsikata                              Cadman Atta Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Christine M. Richaud                           Christine M. Richaud
ICR Primary Author:             Xavier de la Renaudiere


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. IRSC ­ a single-tranche US$25 million structural adjustment credit ­ was approved by the Board in
November 2004 (since the concept review of the IRSC program took place in January 2004, the
operation does not fall under the new Development Policy Lending Guidelines which replaced guidelines
for budget support operations starting in September 2004).

3.1.2. IRSC is the third in a series of lending operations in support of a medium-term program of
capacity-building and institutional reforms aimed at improving public sector governance in preparation for
the oil era. Building on the results of earlier adjustment credits with similar policy objectives, the new series
started with the Fourth and Fifth Structural Adjustment Credits (SAC IV and SAC V) approved
respectively in 2001 and 2003 and for which a full-fledged ICR was prepared (see box 1 below).

                   Box 1. Outcome of Recent Adjustment and Capacity-Building Credits

The IRSC credit followed two $40 million adjustment credits (SAC IV and SAC V) also focused on
governance and economic growth. The overall medium-term reform program was also supported by other
World Bank instruments, notably a $17.5 million capacity-building Project for the Management of the
Petroleum Economy (GEEP).

·        SAC IV, approved in November 2001, and SAC V, approved in March 2003, aimed at improving
governance, introducing a more transparent and efficient use of public resources, and promoting
sustained growth in rural areas. The ICR concluded that substantial progress was made towards
accomplishing the main governance and public finance management goals of the programs. The
performance of the Borrower and the Bank was rated satisfactory. The performance under the civil
service reform and the rural development components was less satisfactory. An organizational audit of
nine pilot ministries was completed, but implementation decrees for the new civil service law were not
finalized. Efforts were made to create local coordination committees in the cotton producing region and
to involve producers in the determination of producer prices, but cost-cutting measures aimed at
improving the financial viability of CotonTchad were not implemented and the government was unable to
organize an investors' forum and similar consultations with farmers' organizations to discuss alternative
privatization scenarios. These consultations eventually took place in September/October 2004, more than
one year after the closing date of SAC V.
·        GEEP, approved in January 2000, aimed at building the capacity of public institutions to
manage upcoming oil revenues and other government resources transparently and efficiently for
economic growth and poverty reduction. The outcome of the GEEP project was rated moderately
satisfactory but the performance of the Bank and the Borrower was rated unsatisfactory. Implementation
was hampered by weak project coordination arrangements and the lack of a well-defined
capacity-building and institutional development strategy. The project provided some support to the
preparation of the National Poverty Reduction Strategy and helped prepare program-budgets in priority
ministries, but the development of an effective Financial Management Information System, one of the key
objectives of the operation, was not achieved. Finally the project failed to accomplish most of its human
resources development objectives. A new Civil Service law was adopted in 2001 but never implemented.
After several years of delay, functional and organizational audits of nine ministries were eventually
completed but recommendations were hardly implemented.


3.1.3. The IRSC was to help Chad use expected oil revenue towards economic growth and poverty
reduction. Thus its main objectives were: (i) to improve governance; and (ii) ensure strong and sustained
growth in the non-oil sector, particularly in rural areas. On governance, the focus was on: a) enhanced
transparency, rule of law and participation; b) efficient use of public resources through better budget
management, improved procurement procedures and civil service reform; and c) strengthening existing


                                                        - 2 -

financial control agencies and ­ more importantly ­ recently created oversight and policy coordination
institutions involving public sector officials, non-government personalities and representatives of the civil
society in the management of petroleum revenue. On economic growth in the rural sector, the focus was on
the reform of the cotton sector.

3.1.4. Assessment of objectives. The IRSC objectives were fully consistent with the key objectives of the
National Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP) approved by the government in 2003, and the Bank Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) endorsed by the Board in December 2003. Both the PRSP and the CAS
emphasized improved governance and public revenue management, improved service delivery and
enhancing non-oil economic opportunities.

3.1.5. Raising efficiency and transparency in the management of public resources was particularly critical
as oil production had started in mid-2003 and was expected to generate substantial increases in revenue in
the medium-term. The government seemed determined to use these additional resources to accelerate
economic growth, reduce poverty and improve access to basic social sector services in line with the
objectives of the national poverty reduction strategy.

3.1.6. The development of strong independent monitoring and oversight institutions was an important
aspect of the governance reform. It was essential not only to build capacity and develop processes aimed at
improving the use of public resources, but also to create an institutional framework capable of providing
checks and balances for an efficient management of government revenue in support of agreed long-term
growth and poverty reduction objectives. Thus the program emphasized the strengthening of existing
financial control institutions, including the Cour de Discipline Budgétaire, the Chambre des Comptes
(CdC) and the Inspection Générale des Finances (IGF), and recently created oversight institutions,
including the Collège de Contrôle et Surveillance des Revenus du Pétrole (CCSRP) which included public
sector and civil society representatives in monitoring the use of petroleum revenue.

3.1.7. The reform of the cotton sector was also critical since cotton was and remains the main source of
cash income for about 350,000 families that grow cotton in the southern region of the country and, together
with livestock, is the main source of non-oil exports. To revive the cotton sector, it was essential to improve
the performance of CotonTchad, the public enterprise responsible for promoting, processing and marketing
the country's cotton production.

3.1.8. The objectives of the IRSC credit must also be viewed in the context of critical medium- and
long-term political and economic developments which had a major impact on government revenue, public
finance management and relations between the government and the Bank. Since 1994, Chad had been
taking a number of measures aimed at restoring growth and financial stability, with the support of World
Bank adjustment credits and IMF programs. In 1999 the Bank Group approved a series of lending
operations to help finance a pipeline between oil fields in the South of the country and the port of Kribi in
Cameroon. Large public and private investments for the construction of the pipeline and the development of
the oil fields stimulated economic growth which accelerated to 11.2 percent in 2001-03. Oil production
began in July 2003 and the rate of growth reached a peak of 29.4 percent in 2004. The Bank Group
contribution to the construction of the pipeline was based on an agreement between the government and the
Bank on the use of future oil revenue primarily for poverty reduction. A Petroleum Revenue Management
Law had been improved by Chad's National Assembly on December 30, 1998. At the time of IRSC
preparation (2004), the first oil revenues were transfered to Chad (July 2004) and the Government began to
implement the Petroleum Revenue Management Program while pursuing structural reforms.

3.1.9. At the same time, the socio-political and security context began to deteriorate, while the country


                                                      - 3 -

began to face a severe financial crisis. First, despite initial progress towards a peaceful settlement of
domestic conflicts, a number of rebel groups continued to operate near Chad's northern and eastern
frontiers and sometimes inside the country. The country also faced a severe humanitarian crisis as about
200,000 refugees from Sudan and 40,000 refugees from the Central African Republic settled in the Eastern
and Southern regions and about 50,000 internally displaced Chadians sought refuge in more secure areas.
Second, in 2003, the government did not meet a number of performance criteria under the PRGF program
that expired in January 2004. This resulted in a significant shortfall in budget support provided by donors,
which declined from 2.3-3.8 percent of GDP in 2002-03 to 1.2 percent in 2004, and led to public spending
cuts. In 2004, the IMF resumed negotiation on a new PRGF program on the basis of modest improvements
in the performance of the government. In light of the good prospects for successfully concluding the
negotiations of the PRGF (which was finally approved by the Fund Board of Directors in February 2005),
the IRSC credit (approved in November 2004) was expected to bridge the financing gap and enable a fully
funded PRGF arrangement. This was an important secondary objective of the IRSC. The Bank and the
Fund hoped that the provision of badly needed budget support, combined with the continuation of the
ongoing public finance management reform, would not only reduce the fiscal pressure but also encourage
the government to fully implement the provisions of the Petroleum Revenue Management Program.

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1. The credit's objectives were not revised during execution.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. The IRSC had three components: (i) strengthen transparency, accountability, the rule of law and
participation; (ii) ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty
reduction; and (iii) ensure strong and sustained economic growth.

3.3.2. Achievement of IRSC objectives and implementation of the three components was based on the
combination of: (i) 27 prior actions to be taken before credit negotiations and (ii) indicative milestones for
completion during implementation of IRSC. The list of prior actions and milestones is long (see Policy and
Action Matrix in Annex 2 to the Program Document) and one might question the rationale for
programming so many legal, procedural and institutional reforms for implementation by weak public
institutions with severe capacity constraints. However, most of these measures were just the continuation of
reforms initiated in the context of earlier programs, including SAC IV and SAC V, and therefore could be
considered feasible. The definition of prior actions was based on the triggers identified under SAC V but
also took into account the pace of reform implementation and the conclusions of recent analytical work. In
addition, following the decision to focus on a limited number of key results, the operation retained only ten
critical indicators of progress to be completed before the end of 2005 as triggers for future program lending
(see simplified Matrix in Annex 1 to this report).

3.3.3. The following paragraphs review the three components of the IRSC program and the specific
measures programmed under each component.


a) Improving governance through strengthened transparency, accountability, the rule of law and
participation


3.3.4. A Good Governance Strategy (SNBG) adopted in 2002, a national forum on justice (Etats Généraux
de la Justice) that discussed the elements of a reform of the justice sector in June 2003, and the review by
the government of a strategy of access to information provided the direction for the reforms of governance.
This component focused on strengthening oversight of public finances by competent institutions and



                                                       - 4 -

systematic publication of public finance and procurement documents. These were seen as essential to
promote a culture of transparency and involve the general public and the civil society in the review of the
management performance of the government.

3.3.5. A number of measures had already been taken before credit negotiations to promote the regular
publication of key documents, reports and audits, and efforts had been made to strengthen oversight
institutions, including the Cour de Discipline Budgétaire and the Collège de Contrôle et Surveillance des
Revenus du Pétrole (CCSRP). The triggers for future program lending focused on expanding the practice
of publishing (on paper and through web sites) reports and audits prepared by the main oversight agencies,
including reports prepared by Inspection Générale des Finances (IGF) and audits by the Chambre des
Comptes (CdC) on budget execution, use of HIPC funds and major procurement contracts. Continued
publication by the CCSRP of annual and quarterly reports was expected to become a major instrument for
monitoring the use of future petroleum revenue in support of poverty reduction.

b) Ensuring efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction.

3.3.6. This had four sub-components ­ budget preparation, budget execution, procurement, and
management of human resources development (civil service reform).

3.3.7. Improved budget preparation. The budget preparation reform aimed at giving a stronger
poverty-reduction orientation to future budget choices. In addition to changes in the budget preparation
cycle (to give more time to sector ministries to reflect on strategic priorities), the reform stressed the use of
two main instruments: (i) preparation of a medium-term public expenditure framework (MTEF) to better
plan future inter-sectoral allocations in line with the priorities of the 2003 PRSP; and (ii) sector expenditure
programs (or program-budgets) to improve intra-sectoral allocations, in line with PRSP priorities and
sector strategies. The main triggers were the adoption of the program-budgeting approach by priority
sectors and ministries, including health, education, infrastructure, rural development and justice.

3.3.8. Improved budget execution and monitoring. In addition to the gradual development of a
computerized financial management information system, with appropriate interface between budget
operations (commitments and payment orders) performed by the budget department, and
accounting/payment operations managed by the Treasury, the budget execution reform included: (i) a better
control of revenue, expenditures and the position of government accounts through 12-month cash
management plans; (ii) preparation of commitment and procurement plans by ministry; (iii) preparation of
monthly reports (T4P Tables) reflecting execution of the four main phases of the spending process (
engagement, ordonnancement, liquidation and prise en charge); (iv) the monthly review of these tables by
monitoring committees; and (v) public expenditure reviews in priority sectors. Another important measure
was the initiation (in the health and education sectors) of expenditure tracking surveys to verify that funds
allocated to local and regional services reached their destination and served intended beneficiaries. The
main triggers for further program lending were: (i) to complete installation of the computerized
management information system in the Ministry of Finance (networking), (ii) to continue preparing and
reviewing audits and budget execution reports, (iii) to expand the tracking surveys to other priority
ministries and (iv) to evaluate and update action plans developed on the basis of previous tracking surveys.

3.3.9. Improved procurement practices. A new procurement code had been adopted in 2003 to simplify
and decentralize an extremely cumbersome centrally-managed procurement process and make it more
transparent. In addition to the preparation and monthly updating of 12-month procurement plans in priority
ministries, the procurement reform included: (i) monthly publication of procurement bulletins, and (ii)
preparation and publication of independent audits of major public procurement contracts. For the future,


                                                      - 5 -

the main trigger was actual implementation of one of the key measures under the new code, i.e., the setting
up and effective functioning of Bid Evaluation Committees in sector ministries.

3.3.10. Improved management of human resources (civil service reform). In addition to specific
measures to build the capacity of administrative and financial departments (AFDs) in sector ministries, the
program envisaged more radical reforms aimed at introducing competitive recruitment and merit-based
advancement in the civil service, and, more importantly, gradually delegating to sector ministries the
management of their own staff. Draft implementation decrees of the new Civil Service Statutes had been
prepared. An organizational audit of nine pilot ministries had been completed in 2003 and an action plan
had been adopted by the government. The triggers for future program lending included: (i) the preparation
and promulgation of decrees defining the respective roles and responsibilities of the Civil Service Ministry
and sector ministries, (ii) recruitment of qualified staff for key budget management and procurement
positions in AFDs in priority sector ministries, and (iii) installation and effective operation of a
computerized system for the administrative and financial management of the civil service.


c) Ensuring strong and sustained economic growth


3.3.11. While cotton production quintupled in volume in twenty years in other CFAF countries, Chad's
output hardly increased and productivity declined by 30 to 40% during the same period. The trend did not
improve over the past few years. The production of seed cotton declined from a peak of 262,000 tons in
1997-98 to 164,000 tons in 2001-02. The performance of the cotton sector largely depended on the
capacity of CotonTchad to effectively organize the production of seed cotton and the collection, processing
and marketing of the product. To restore the competitiveness of the filiere, the IRSC included measures to:
(i) improve the technical and financial viability of CotonTchad (cost-cutting measures; overhaul of existing
plants; definition of a priority road network), and (ii) prepare an economically and socially effective
privatization process. Before credit negotiations, a report had identified and analyzed nine alternative
divestiture scenarios and a couple of scenarios had been tentatively pre-selected by the government. For
further program lending, the triggers included: (i) analysis of the social impact of alternative scenarios; (ii)
consultations with potential investors and farmers' organizations, (iii) adoption by the government of the
final privatization scenario; and (iv) definition of institutional and operational options in market regulation,
market information, producer price mechanism, role of the private sector, etc.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. The structure of the program and the choice of components were not revised during credit execution.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. Satisfactory. IRSC was not reviewed by a QAG panel. However, SAC V ­ the predecessor
operation ­ had been reviewed and rated satisfactory. The lessons from the QAG assessment of SAC V
were incorporated in the design of IRSC, notably with respect to the structure of the cotton sector
component (see paragraph 3.5.2. below).

3.5.2. The objectives of the credit and the selection of the main components were sound. Building on
previous efforts to improve the country's public sector management performance, the design of the program
was based on a systematic analysis by the government, the Bank and all the main donors operating in Chad
of the lessons of earlier programs and reflected a consensus on the most urgent next steps in the reform
process.




                                                       - 6 -

·        Governance and public finance management were by far the most critical components. Expanding
the role and building the capacity of independent oversight institutions was an appropriate response to the
rapidly evolving economic and financial situation of the country. Until 2004, major macroeconomic and
structural reforms were accomplished by the government with the help and support of a vigilant donor
community. As oil revenue was expected to gradually replace donor financing as the main source of
financing for the public sector, it was urgent to develop strong national institutions to monitor the financial
management performance and influence the public expenditures policy of the government.
·        A positive aspect of the public finance reform component of the program also was the combination
of measures aimed at strengthening the link between budget management and poverty reduction, an
objective the government seemed to strongly support. The design of this component was based on important
pieces of analytical work which were used for the design of SAC IV and SAC V, including a Public
Expenditure Review (June 2004), a multi-donor, participatory Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (June 2004) and a Review of poverty spending under the HIPC Initiative (April 2004).
·        In rural development, the cotton sector reform supported by the IRSC was revisited on the basis of
lessons learned during implementation of SAC IV and SAC V and additional analytical work carried out
during program preparation, notably a Strategy Note on the Cotton Sector (March 2004). The IRSC
program adopted a very prudent approach to the divestiture of CotonTchad. This approach was probably
justified considering: (i) the risk of further disrupting the cotton sector which is critical for Chad's non-oil
economy, (ii) the need to improve the performance of CotonTchad before calling for bids from potential
private investors, and (iii) the need to create an institutional environment conducive to the development of
effective private enterprises and farmers' organizations to handle input delivery and credit recovery next to
a privatized cotton ginning and marketing company.
·        Building on the lessons from SAC IV and SAC V, the design of the operation included an effort to
move from numerous process-oriented triggers to a reduced number of result-based monitoring indicators.
The number of triggers for future program lending was reduced to ten, and many of them represented
expected concrete achievements. The Policy Matrix included outcome indicators for each component, but
their number was fairly high and some of them did not have baseline and targets that would have helped
measure the impact of the program (such as the percentage of expenditures reaching their intended
beneficiaries). Overall the move to result-based monitoring and performance indicators could have been
more decisive.

3.5.3. Obviously the strategy advocated by the IRSC credit involved risks but the vitality of the civil
society and the voice of an independent and fairly competent local press were important considerations in
support of the program's design. Some of these risks were identified in the Program Document. The content
of the program supported by the IRSC was fully in line with the PRSP. There was close coordination with
other donors. The IRSC complemented other interventions (budget support and technical assistance) by
external partners in the areas of public finance management. The role of the Bank in the cotton sector was
considered as a catalyst for moving forward with the program. However the Bank could have articulated
more clearly some of the considerations ­ including its hope to bridge the gap until the successful
conclusion of the PRGF negotiations and to ensure the sustainability of the Petroleum Revenue
Management Program ­ that in its opinion justified the credit.

3.5.4. On balance the quality at entry was satisfactory. Like SAC IV and SAC V, implementation of the
IRSC program was expected to be supported by a major technical assistance/capacity-building project. The
GEEP project helped complete some of the prior actions for negotiating the IRSC, but even though the
project closed only in June 2005, it turned out that most of the funds had already been disbursed or
committed when the IRSC credit was approved by the Board. Bank staff and the Government hoped that a
GEEP II project would provide the technical support and human resources necessary to carry out the



                                                        - 7 -

studies and implement the reforms scheduled for 2005, notably the 10 result indicators selected as triggers
for future program lending. As the Chad government felt that GEEP had not achieved its capacity-building
objectives, the Bank decided to undertake a comprehensive review of the project design and implementation
performance before launching another capacity-building project. By July 2005, the Ministry of Finance and
the Bank had reached agreement on the main features of a comprehensive Public Finance Modernization
project (PAMFIP) but its finalization was delayed by several factors, including delayed formal approval by
the government and, eventually, suspension of Bank operations following a dispute on the use of petroleum
revenue (Box 2). Hence implementation of the IRSC program after completion of prior actions was
seriously affected by the absence of a parallel capacity-building project in 2005.

                               Box 2: The dispute on the use of oil revenue

In June 2000, the Bank approved a series of lending operations to help finance the construction
of a pipeline between oil fields in the South of the country and the port of Kribi in Cameroon. A
major feature of the operation was an agreement between the Chadian Government and the Bank
on the use of future oil revenue, the Petroleum Revenue Management Program (PRMP). The
terms of the PRMP were also reflected in a Chadian law , Law No. 0001/PR/99 dated January
11, 1999 (the Petroleum Revenue Management Law or PRML) Pursuant to the terms of the
PRMP, petroleum revenues would flow through an offshore escrow structure and a percentage of
direct revenues (royalties and dividends) would be saved in the form of a so-called Future
Generations Fund. The balance of direct revenue would be deposited in special accounts in Chad
and used as follows: (i) 5 percent of royalties for decentralized institutions in the producing
region; (ii) up to 2007, 15 percent of direct revenue for current and investment general budget of
the government; and (iii) 80 percent of royalties and 85 percent of dividends for expenditures in
priority sectors (Health and Social Action, Education, Infrastructure, Rural Development and
Water and Environment).
During the first half of 2005, the Governmnent informed the Bank of its intention to seek greater
flexibility in the use of oil revenue. On December 29, 2005, the National Assembly approved a
revised law that extended the scope of the PRML to direct revenue from both old and new fields,
but eliminated the Future Generations Fund and increased from 15 to 30 percent the share of
direct oil revenue to be transferred to the general budget, thus reducing the share of revenue
allocated to priority sectors. In addition, the list of priority sectors was increased to include
justice and security, further changeable by Decree. The revised law was approved by the
Assembly on December 29, 2005. In the view of the Bank, these changes weakened the poverty
focus of the PRMP. This led to the Bank suspending disbursements on ongoing lending
operations,and the state of default triggered a freeze on the movement of certain of Chad's oil
revenues within the Citibank escrow account structure in London. Subsequent discussions
between the Bank and the Government led to an interim understanding in April 2006, pursuant
to which the Bank agreed to resume disbursements on most suspended projects and, in
anticipation of a final agreement, a portion of the funds in the escrow account were temporarily
unfrozen, subject to compliance with certain agreed measures.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1. The overall outcome of the credit is described in the following Table and in paragraphs 4.1.2 to
4.1.12. On balance it is rated Unsatisfactory.Had the six-point scale currently employed by IEG been



                                                       - 8 -

available, a moderately unsatisfactory rating would have been the most appropriate.


                                  Table 1: Summary of IRSC Outcomes

Sectors          Rating of                                         Comments
                 Outcome
Macro           Moderately     After a sharp acceleration of GDP growth in 2004 (29.5 percent), after the
economic        satisfactory   beginning of oil production, economic growth continued to be sustained (8
performance                    percent in 2005), and was notably characterized by a substantial acceleration of
                               growth in the non-oil sector (10 percent compared to 2 percent in 2004).
                               Consumer prices declined in 2004 but increased sharply in 2005 reflecting the
                               decline in cereals production in 2004. Macroeconomic imbalances (overall
                               public finance and current account deficits) were reduced or eliminated. This
                               strong performance however was mitigated by the fact that, on the fiscal side,
                               2005 was marked by significant budget execution slippages, accumulation of
                               arrears and weak cash management. Nevertheless the share of priority sectors in
                               total government expenditures continued to increase both in voted budgets and
                               actual spending.
Governance      Moderately     CCSRP prepared useful reports on oil revenue-financed expenditures which were
               unsatisfactory disseminated on the Internet and in the press. The Chambre des Comptes (CdC)
                               and the Inspection Générale des Finances (IGF) also prepared quality reports on
                               public finance management in 2004. In 2005, however, the CdC was unable to
                               complete and publish reports on use of HIPC funds, execution of 2004 budget law
                               and 2004 procurement contracts. Preparation of all these reports is now underway
                               and publication is expected during the next quarter.
Budget          Moderately     Priority sector ministries prepared program-budgets and the quality of the
preparation    unsatisfactory programs improved. In the education sector in particular program budgets and
                               related analytical work influenced budget discussions and strategic choices. The
                               main weakness of budget and program preparation practices is that
                               program-budgets prepared by sector ministries are not always based on realistic
                               estimates of available resources. Future budget planning exercises should start
                               with the preparation of sound multi-sector and multi-year Public Expenditure
                               Frameworks consistent with the priorities of the poverty reduction strategy.
                               Moreover program budgets played only a very limited role in the allocation of
                               resources at the time of budget discussions.
 Budget        Unsatisfactory   The installation of a reliable computerized financial management information
 execution,                     system did not materialize. Only modest efforts were made to analyze in depth
 cash                           and improve the chain of expenditures in priority sectors (to ensure that budget
 management                     allocations for basic services effectively reach intended beneficiaries). Actual
 and                            spending for priority sectors increased (as noted above). Rates of budget
 procurement                    execution in priority ministries improved but remained lower than in other
                                sectors. Adoption of a new procurement code in 2003 did not have the expected
                                impact on the efficiency of the procurement process, largely because of weak
                                capacity. Procurement continued to be affected by excessive use of direct
                                contracting and restricted bidding procedures.
 Human             Highly       Despite the adoption of a revised reform strategy based on the audit of pilot
 resources     unsatisfactory   ministries, the civil service reform stalled. Decrees setting out the role of sector
 development                    ministries in the management of human resources have not been prepared. The
                                resurgence of arrears on civil service salaries did not create a positive
                                environment for major reforms.
Cotton sector   Moderately     Preparation of the privatization of CotonTchad progressed slowly in 2005.



                                                       - 9 -

reform            satisfactory   Following the pre-selection of two alternative privatization scenarios and
                                 consultations with potential investors and producers in September and October
                                 2004, a road map for the reform of the cotton sector was approved in 2005
                                 following a multi-donor mission. To implement the road map, a coordinator was
                                 appointed and effective measures were taken to reduce CotonTchad's unit costs
                                 and deficits. These measures were effective. The 2005/2006 cotton season
                                 (notably timely producers' payments) was smoother than the previous years, and
                                 the performance of the sector improved substantially. However, planned studies
                                 for the preparation of the privatization process have not been launched and the
                                 government has not selected the final privatization scenario.



a) Macroeconomic and Fiscal Performance

4.1.2. Moderately satisfactory. The IRSC program is mainly about strengthening budget management
processes. However, the long-term objective of these measures is to create an environment favorable to
sustainable growth and effective use of oil revenue and other public resources for poverty reduction. The
country's macroeconomic and fiscal performance during implementation of the IRSC program was mixed.
Economic growth, which had reached a peak of 29.4 percent in 2004, continued at a slower pace (8 percent
in 2005) but was particularly significant in the non-oil sector (10 percent). Consumer prices declined by 5.4
percent in 2004 but increased by 7.9 percent in 2005 reflecting the shortage of food following a sharp
decline in cereals production in 2004. Current and other domestically-financed expenditures increased
significantly (from 11-13 percent of GDP in 2002-03 to about 15 percent of non-oil GDP in 2004-05).
However, thanks to oil revenue, government revenue increased from 8-9 percent of GDP in the early 2000s
to 14-17 percent of non-oil GDP in 2004-05 and the overall public finance deficit decreased from 13-16
percent in 2002-03 to 10 percent of non-oil GDP in 2004 and 7 percent in 2005. Nevertheless the
government was unable to prevent significant cash management problems leading to the build-up of
domestic arrears with adverse social and economic consequences (salary and pension arrears causing
strikes; private contractors refusing to bid on government contracts except for goods and services financed
by earmarked oil revenue or foreign aid). The liquidity crisis was caused by several factors, including a
sharp decline in external budget support, lack of fungibility between the four different budgets (ordinary,
oil revenue, HIPC and foreign-financed investment) managed by the government, increased defense
expenditures (salaries), inadequate monitoring of budget execution and inadequate cash management
practices (see below budget execution performance). It should be noted, however, that the share of spending
by priority sectors continued to increase in total domestically-financed expenditures (See structure of public
expenditures in Annex 9 and paragraphs 4.1.5. and 4.1.9. below on budget preparation and execution).

b) Governance and Transparency

4.1.3. Implementation of the governance and transparency component is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
In the context of prior actions, the Finance Ministry and the Chambre des Comptes (CdC) had begun to
publish key documents, reports and audits (the 2003 budget law, the CdC report on execution of the 2002
budget law and the CdC audits of major procurement contracts and HIPC-financed activities in 2001-02).
The CCRSP was expected to play a major role in the monitoring of future oil revenue-financed
expenditures and its responsibilities had been redefined in a new decree. The 2004 triggers were met. In
2004 and 2005, the CCRSP, assisted by a competent Technical Secretariat, acted as a reasonably
independent oversight institution, criticizing procurement procedures and the lack of effective results at the
local level of some of the oil revenue-financed projects. In 2004 the main audit and internal control agencies
(CdC and IGF) continued to publish reports which included useful comments on the public finance



                                                       - 10 -

performance of the government. In 2005, however, the CdC was unable to complete and publish its report
on execution of the previous budget and did not audit the 5 most important procurement contracts of 2004.
Lack of resources and delays in collecting budget execution data ­ due to the absence of a reliable financial
management information system ­ are mentioned as some of the factors that may explain delays in the
completion of these reports. Preparation of these reports is now underway and publication is expected
during the next quarter.

4.1.4. Annex 12 provides Chad's ratings and rankings for governance on a list of 51-67 IDA countries
(Kaufmann and Kray Point Estimates) and 36 Sub-Saharan African countries (CPIA). They show that
Chad's governance and financial management indicators are on the low side and have not improved over
the past few years.

c) Budget preparation

4.1.5. Implementation of this component is rated moderately unsatisfactory. In the context of prior
actions, Health, Basic Education, Agriculture, Livestock, Housing and Public Works had prepared
program-budgets for 2004-06. The 2004 and 2005 triggers were met as a growing number of priority and
non-priority ministries were able to complete the preparation of program-budgets. As often in countries that
are beginning to use the program-budgeting approach, the initial goal of its introduction was to familiarize
the staff of sector ministries with the technical aspects of program-budgeting and to initiate a process that
would help them translate sector strategies into coherent public expenditure programs. It was hoped that as
sector ministries gained experience, the quality of the programs would improve, the Ministry of Finance
would become more capable to evaluate the product and program-budgets would eventually become a
major decision-making instrument after 3-5 years of tests and actual practice. This is happening. Over the
past few years, the quality of program-budgets prepared by the initiators of the process (health and
education) improved considerably. Significant efforts were made to better estimate costs and identify
relevant benchmarks and outcomes. The Ministry of Education that had worked intensively on projecting
medium- and long-term development scenarios for the sector was able to produce rational strategies and
sensible programs. Efforts made by key social sector ministries motivated other ministries to follow suit
and recent discussions with these ministries showed the growing interest of managers and staff for
integrating more strategic thinking into the budgeting process. Although so far program budgets had only a
modest influence on the structure of the final budget law, it should be noted that the share allocated to
priority sectors in voted budgets is steadily increasing (from 51.9 percent in 2002 to 57.4 percent in 2005).
The main weakness of current practices is that program-budgets prepared by sector ministries are not
always based on realistic assumptions about available resources. For the future, the effectiveness of the
process will depend on the timely preparation by the Ministries of Finance and Planning of realistic
multi-year, multi-sector expenditure frameworks with inter-sectoral allocations in line with the priorities of
the poverty reduction strategy. Incidentally, the Government plans to use the revision of the 2003 poverty
reduction strategy to better define the criteria that should guide the preparation of future multi-sector
MTEFs.

d) Budget execution

4.1.6. Implementation of this component is rated unsatisfactory. In the context of prior actions, the
government had completed the first phase of an Integrated Financial Management Information System
(IFMIS) and was preparing monthly reports on expenditures in priority sectors. The new procurement code
had been adopted, draft implementation decrees were ready, procurement plans had been prepared by key
ministries, and quarterly procurement bulletins were regularly published. Triggers were partly met. The
government has continued to prepare budget execution reports and procurement plans, and high-level


                                                       - 11 -

meetings discussed the performance of revenue and spending departments. However, reports and plans
were not used effectively and discussions regarding the cash position of government accounts were aimed at
deciding which bills would be paid with available resources rather than developing an accurate and
pro-active budget forecasting, regulation and cash management instrument. In addition excessive use of
PSOPs (payments ordered and executed outside the regular commitment procedure) made it very difficult
to estimate past commitments and project future spending.

4.1.7. Monitoring budget execution and the position of government accounts has remained inadequate
partly due to the weakness of the IFMIS. The system has not been fully integrated and the networking links
to the various offices in the Ministry of Finance have not been established. Combined with additional staff
training, a reliable and fully integrated IFMIS would allow the departments concerned to prepare adequate
reports, improve the cash management performance of the government and help prevent major liquidity
crises. On the tracking surveys, the ministries of Health and Basic Education had, as prior actions to the
IRSC, developed action plans to follow up on the results of the PETS in these sectors. However,
implementation of the plans has been limited. In addition the envisaged PETS for other ministries have not
been undertaken.

4.1.8. While the reform of the procurement code in 2003 was a major step forward, implementation decrees
and manual of procedures were not approved. Bid Evaluation Committes in key ministries have been
created but lack of capacity has been a major obstacle to implementation of the reform. Because it did not
trust the analysis of the bid evaluation committees, the central procurement office (OCMP) tended to
review their conclusions thus adding to the length of the procedure. The Chambre des Comptes did not
audit the 5 major procurement contracts of 2004 and a growing number of public contracts (30 percent of
2005 contracts financed by the oil revenue budget) were negotiated and awarded without calling for bids, as
required by the Code. The OCMP continued to announce bidding procedures in local newspapers but
discontinued the publication of quarterly bulletins that included information on bidding procedures and
contract awards.

4.1.9. A positive element in the budget execution performance of the government is a slight improvement in
the rate of budget execution in priority sectors, which at 78.8 percent in 2002 was considerably lower than
in other sectors but reached 84.4 percent in 2005 (see Annex 10 ­ Rates of budget execution in priority and
non-priority sectors). As a result the share of spending by priority sectors increased not only in voted
budgets but also in executed budgets (from 45.8 percent in 2002 to 52.8 percent in 2005).

4.1.10. Annex 11 provides data on the recent evolution of key indicators in priority sectors and comments
on the links between sector spending and results: (i) the jump in transport sector spending in 2003 and 2004
is largely responsible for the recent increase in the length of the paved and improved gravel road network
and the good results of the road maintenance program; (ii) low rates of budget execution is one of the
factors that explain modest improvements in health indicators; and (iii) major improvements in school
enrollment rates and other primary education indicators result more from reduced unit costs (recruitment of
low salary community teachers) than from a rather small increase in education spending.

e) Management of human resources and civil service reform

4.1.11. Implementation of this component is rated highly unsatisfactory. In the context of prior actions,
qualified staff were recruited for the Budget Directorate and priority ministries identified their staffing
needs in budget preparation and procurement. An organizational audit of 9 pilot ministries was completed
and an action plan prepared and validated. The Government also established a Technical Committee with
representation of all stakeholders to coordinate the civil service reform agenda and had selected a


                                                      - 12 -

computerized system for administrative and financial management of the civil service. Few of the triggers
for further program lending have been implemented. The staffing requirements of AFDs, PDs and HRDs
have been identified and largely met but so far virtually none of the other measures has been taken.
Technical problems resulting from the selection of an obsolete system and the lack of adequate financing
for solving these problems delayed full installation of the computerized civil service management
information system. More importantly, the resurgence of payment arrears on civil service salaries in
2004-05 triggered strikes and created an environment unfavorable to civil service reforms. Greater progress
is expected in 2006. The Government has embarked on a review of the role and organization of the Civil
Service Ministry and a consultant will prepare draft legal and regulatory documents governing the
management of the civil service.

f) Reform of the cotton sector

4.1.12. Implementation of this component is rated moderately satisfactory. Following a technical and
financial audit of CotonTchad, prior actions included preparation of a report presenting nine alternative
divestiture scenarios and analyzing key social, economic, financial, institutional and production issues to be
addressed in the context of the privatization process. The government reviewed the nine alternatives and
chose two options for further consideration: (i) selling shares of CotonTchad, or (ii) selling CotonTchad's
ginneries and other assets to a small number of private investors. Finally, a Technical Committee had
adopted a plan for the development of cotton producer organizations. Some action has been taken towards
meeting the triggers for further program lending. The consultation of investors and producers has been
undertaken, with forums of investors in September 2004 and producers in October 2004, but the
government has not selected the final privatization scenario which will be used to call for bids.
Consequently, the detailed studies for the design of institutional and other supporting measures could not be
launched. However, a road map identifying the most critical next steps was drafted in January 2005 and
adopted in August 2005, which expects the privatization process to be completed by 2008. A coordinator
of the reform has been appointed. After a disastrous year in 2003/04, cotton production increased
substantially in 2004/05. Measures have been taken to reduce unit costs (producer prices, transport costs
and staff salaries) and the deficit of CotonTchad is expected to decline from about CFAF 19.7 billion in
2004/05 to 5.6 billion in 2005/06.


4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. See Table 1, paragraphs 4.1.2 to 4.1.12 and Annexes 1 and 11.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1. Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1. Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. Modest. The most effective institutional development impact of the IRSC program was the
emergence of a reasonably strong Petroleum Oversight Comittee (CCRSP), which was actively monitoring
the implementation of the petroleum revenue management law until its revision by the government in
December 2005. The new law extended the mandate of the College from three to nine years. Another
significant result is the capacity of key sector ministries to reflect on sectoral priorities and develop
coherent program-budgets. The budget execution capacity of key departments in Finance and other
ministries remains a major problem. Virtually nothing has been done to improve the capacity of the Civil



                                                     - 13 -

Service Ministry and the human resources management process in sector ministries. The performance of
CotonTchad has improved but critical structural issues in planning its future still need to be addressed.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. Despite accelerated economic growth and increased oil revenue, implementation of the IRSC
program took place in a particularly difficult environment. The deepening of the Darfur crisis increased the
number of refugees seeking asylum in Chad, and the number of internally-displaced people. Rebel groups
based in Sudan launched attacks on Chadian cities and fomented several coups aimed at overthrowing
President Deby's regime. In this context, defense and security became the main concern of the government.
This weakened its commitment to poverty reduction, improved budget management and other structural
reforms and, therefore, affected the performance of the IRSC program. The approval of the constitutional
amendment on the revision of the Constitution also led a number of senior government officials and army
officers to join the rebellion. The government felt the need to increase spending on defense and security and
signaled its intention to seek more flexibility in the use of direct oil revenue.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. Slow development of national capacity and ­ as mentioned earlier ­ weakening government
commitment to the reform process in 2005 were probably the main factors affecting the performance of the
IRSC program. The problem was exacerbated by delays in the finalization of a comprehensive public
sector capacity building project replacing the GEEP project.

5.2.2. Only a few months after the approval of the IRSC (Spring 2005), the Government signaled its
intention to seek more flexibility in the use of direct oil revenue. This marked a critical turning point in the
dialogue between the Bank and the authorities of Chad. Eventually, the decision of the government and the
National Assembly to revise unilaterally the law governing the oil revenue management mechanism led the
Bank to suspend disbursements on ongoing lending operations and freeze transfer of funds from the escrow
account to Chad, thus exacerbating the ongoing cash management crisis and depriving the Bank of its
influence on public policies and performance.

5.2.3. The poor performance under the PRGF arrangement, the eventual expiration of the program in
January 2004 and the long period before the adoption of a new PRGF led to serious financial difficulties
for the budget. Budget support from the donor community declined sharply from CFAF 61 billion in 2002
to CFAF 34 billion in 2003 and 17 billion in 2004. With the beginning of oil production, the decline in
budget support was more than offset by increased government revenue but, together with inadequate budget
monitoring and cash management, this decline triggered a liquidity crisis that in turn had a negative impact
on budget execution in priority sectors. The resurgence of arrears on civil service salaries also created an
environment that was not favorable to effective implementation of civil service reforms. In addition the
performance under the PRFG program approved in February 2005 quickly turned out to be weak, and the
first review under the program was not concluded.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. See paragraphs 5.2.1. and 5.2.3.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1. The full amount of the IDA credit (SDR 17.1 million) was disbursed in one tranche after the credit
became effective on December 21, 2004 as forecasted. The credit was closed on December 31, 2005 as
planned.




                                                       - 14 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. Sustainability is rated likely. Progress achieved in the development of program-budgeting and in the
reform of the cotton sector seems to be sustainable. The sustainability of the overall reform program
supported by SAC IV, SAC V and the IRSC credit depends on strengthened government commitment to the
reform process, continued support of the Bank and the donor community and progress in capacity building.
As mentioned earlier, defense and security issues have become the main preoccupation of the Government.
The dispute between Chad and the Bank over the revision of the petroleum revenue management law, the
eventual suspension of Bank disbursements, and slippages in the PRGF program represented a significant
setback for the reform program. The recent resumption of Bank Group activities in Chad, the renewal of
the policy dialogue with the Bank and the IMF and the relaunching of a public sector capacity-building
project (PAMFIP) augur well for the program of reform. Furthermore the key achievements under the
program (the Petroleum Oversight Committee (College) and the program-budgeting process, were not
questioned by the Government at the time of the revision of the Petroleum Revenue Management Law.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1. As oil revenue increases over the next few years, the need for budget support and Development
Policy Lending is expected to disappear. However, the country will still need external support to strengthen
national capacities and promote institutional reforms.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1. Moderately satisfactory. The IRSC program was in line with the country's development priorities as
described in the PRSP, and the Bank's assistance strategy. Preparation work was based on substantial
analytical work and effective consultations with all the ministries and agencies concerned and reflected the
views of the donors operating in Chad on the most urgent next steps. The design of the operation also took
into account the lessons of the SAC IV and SAC V experience ­ as reported in the ICR ­ and the
conclusions of the QAG review of Quality at Entry for SAC V. The emphasis on strengthening the capacity
and increasing the role of independent oversight institutions was appropriate in Chad's circumstances. As
in previous similar operations, the Policy matrix included a large number of prior actions and milestones,
but the design of the IRSC program marked a shift towards the selection of a reduced number of process
and results-oriented indicators with the choice of only 10 triggers for future development policy lending.
Preparation was closely coordinated with other donors (notably IMF, European Union, UNDP, African
Development Bank and France) who attended meetings and provided inputs and comments. The design was
consistent with the technical assistance plans of other institutions (notably France and UNDP) for
implementation of key IRSC-related activities. The decision to move forward with the IRSC however was
also driven by the Bank's willingness to provide much needed budget support at a critical juncture point,
which could have been more explicitely laid out. The weakening Government's commitment to reforms and
to the PRML in a context of a difficult socio-political and security situation was acknowledged during
program implementation. In addition, delays in the preparation of the capacity-building operation, although
well justified, seriously affected program implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1. Moderately unsatisfactory. Given the weak capacity in the Government, intensive supervision was
necessary for success in implementing the IRSC. The IMF and the Bank monitored closely the
macroeconomic and fiscal performance of the government. The financial management aspects of the
program were reviewed in the context of technical missions and videoconferences for the preparation of the



                                                    - 15 -

PAMFIP capacity-building project. The rural development component was discussed in the context of the
Bank/government dialogue on the divestiture of CotonTchad and the reform of the cotton sector. However,
Bank supervision effort would have been more intensive and structured better if the preparation of the
PAMFIP project and the planned development policy lending operation (IRSC II) had not been delayed.
Preparation of IRSC II would have enabled the Bank to follow up more closely on implementation of the
IRSC triggers and prior actions for the new operation. Moreover, the dispute between the government and
the Bank over the revision of the petroleum revenue management law in mid-2005 practically became the
sole focus of dialogue and therefore limited the scope of Bank supervision of the IRSC and the preparation
of follow up actions. In addition, the turnover in the Bank's technical team responsible for the cotton sector
may also have caused some discontinuity in dialogue in this sector and hindered the effectiveness of Bank
supervision of that component.

7.2.2. Increasing the efficiency of public spending was a major goal of the Country Assistance Strategy.
The Bank mobilized Trust Fund resources to help finance planned public expenditure tracking surveys and
develop action plans to improve the delivery of financial and technical support to regional and local
facilities. With hindsight, it appears that more vigorous efforts should have been made to encourage sector
ministries to carry out the surveys and develop and implement appropriate action plans.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1. Unsatisfactory. The overall Bank performance is mixed, and needs to be assessed against the
backdrop of the complexity of the program, the difficult political and economic environment and the modest
capacity of government institutions. On balance, it is rated unsatisfactory. Had the six-point scale currently
employed by IEG been available, a moderately unsatisfactory rating would have been the most appropriate.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1. Moderately satisfactory. As mentioned in paragraph 7.1.1. above, the IRSC program was the result
of extensive discussions between the Bank and the government involving all the ministries and agencies
concerned. All these institutions cooperated effectively in the design of the program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1. Unsatisfactory. After meeting the prior conditions of the IRSC credit, the government continued to
implement key components of the program until mid-2005. However, when the political and security
situation deteriorated, the government focused less on the reform program and implementation weakened.
While the work on program-budgets continued, little progress was made on improving budget execution,
cash management, procurement and the management of human resources. In the rural development sector,
following a long period of inaction, the government made significant efforts to improve the operational
performance and financial viability of CotonTchad but no decision was made concerning the selection of
the final divestiture scenario. Finally, frequent changes in the staffing and management of several ministries
seriously affected the performance of the program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1. Moderately satisfactory. The Cellule Economique, within the Ministry of Planning, performed a
useful role as coordinator of the program. The Ministry of Finance and sector ministries were the main
actors at all stages of the reform process. Sector ministries made progress in the preparation of
program-budgets. Budget execution remained problematic. The failure to develop a reliable financial
management information system contributed to less than satisfactory budget execution performance.




                                                     - 16 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1. The Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory.Had the six-point scale currently employed by
IEG been available, a moderately unsatisfactory rating would have been the most appropriate.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1. The IRSC credit was not a typical policy lending operation aimed at supporting major macroeconomic,
fiscal or sectoral reforms. The program included a list of step-by-step institutional and procedural measures
which ­ if implemented ­ would provide the government with most of the tools it would need to improve its
financial management practices. Lessons learned from the IRSC experience and similar public finance
reform programs indicate the importance of combining policy lending with comprehensive support in the
areas of capacity-building and technical assistance. The design of the IRSC was based on the assumption
that such support would be available but the evolving dialogue between the Bank and the authorities of
Chad led to postponing the preparation of the PAMFIP project and the IRSC II. The absence of a parallel
capacity-building project had a negative impact on the performance of many IRSC components. The
government did not receive the technical assistance required to get a financial management information
system corresponding to its needs, nor the training necessary to use effectively the system that had been
installed. The reform of the customs services was hampered by the lack of appropriate equipment and
technical support. No manual of procedures was prepared to facilitate implementation of the new
procurement code. The members of the new bid evaluation committees were not adequately trained and the
lack of capacity is largely responsible for the failure of the procurement reform. Finally, it seems that some
of the procedures recommended by the Bank and the Fund (budget execution reports, procurement plans
and cash management plans) were not used effectively and did not help the government better appraise its
financial and cash management position and identify the most appropriate corrective measures. Moreover
the postponement of a follow-up development policy lending operation reduced the intensity of the policy
and institutional dialogue between the Bank and the government on progress of the reforms, and weakened
the efficiency of Bank supervision.

8.2. A second lesson concerns the program-budgeting process. Ideally, the preparation of program-budgets
should be a two-phase process. The first phase should be the preparation of draft programs to help the
government make appropriate decisions about overall budget priorities. The second phase should start
when the government has made its decision and determined future inter-sectoral allocations: then sector
ministries should review again their program-budgets with a view to optimizing the use of funds available
to their sector. In Chad, program-budgets are prepared before final decisions about inter-sectoral
allocations are made but there is not enough time to revise them thereafter. Consequently, although some of
the ministries prepared alternative scenarios based on different assumptions about available resources, most
of the program-budgets are based on tentative ­ sometimes unrealistic ­ financing assumptions. In other
words strategic discussions which have been organized in the context of the preparation of
program-budgets do not have enough influence on the structure of voted budgets and some of the sector
ministries were disappointed that their work had not been used more effectively by the Ministry of Finance
when deciding on inter-sectoral allocations. For the future, the budget preparation process should start
with: (i) identification by the government of its overall strategic priorities (in line with the objectives of
updated PRSPs) and (ii) early issuance of the budget circular defining inter-sectoral allocations. As a
result, preparation of program-budgets by sector ministries would be based on more realistic resource
assumptions in the context of agreed multi-sector MTEFs.

8.3. A third lesson concerns the role of the civil society and the feasibility of supporting independent
oversight institutions. In Chad, civil society does not play a dominant role in the political life of the country
but has some influence and is partly responsible for the relative priority accorded by the government to



                                                      - 17 -

poverty reduction. Trade unions and other civil society representatives have a voice in public institutions,
notably the CCSRP and the Steering Committee of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. The Bank was well
advised to support these institutions which the government consults on poverty reduction-related issues.
Other control agencies ­ like the Chambre des Comptes ­ have also been given a role and have shown
some independence in their reviews of the public finance performance of the government. The Bank should
continue to give a high priority to building the capacity and protecting the independence of these institutions
which, if successful, can help develop a culture of transparency in the management of public resources.

8.4. A fourth lesson concerns the need to move more forcefully towards result-based indicators. There was
an improvement in the design of the IRSC compared to previous operations (SAC IV and SAC V) in that
respect, as the triggers for future program lending were reduced to ten indicators, of which several were
more outcome-oriented. However part of the indicators (budget preparation and (in part) budget execution,
cotton sector reform) were process oriented, which made the overall assessment of outcomes more difficult.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1.1. The government has prepared its own evaluation report (see Annex 8). The report concludes that on
balance the program achieved most of its objectives and that most of the triggers for future program
lending have been met. The report also notes that the performance of the program was affected by two
factors: (i) the lack of resources and technical support which made it difficult to fully implement several
triggers and other measures; and (ii) the dispute between the Bank and the government on the Petroleum
Revenue Management Law, which had a negative impact on several programmed activities.

9.1.2. The report concludes that the IRSC program was the result of a good cooperation between the
government and the Bank and that the performance of both parties was satisfactory. It stresses, however,
the need for better consultations with the ministries and institutions concerned regarding the negotiation of
triggers for future program lending.

9.1.3. Finally the report comments on the need for more intensive supervision of ongoing programs.


(b) Cofinanciers:
9.2. Although the preparation process involved all the main donors operating in Chad, the IRSC program
was not cofinanced by another institution.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                     - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Prior Actions and Triggers for Future Program Lending

I. GOVERNANCE
          Prior Actions                Triggers for future         Implementation during IRSC period
                                        program lending                           (2004-05)
Strengthen Transparency, Accountability,
Rule of Law & Participation
Publication & dissemination of    Trigger No.1:               In 2004, CdC prepared & published audit
2003 Budget Law                   Internet Publication of key reports on: (i) use of HIPC funds in 2003; (ii)
Internet publication of audit of  reports :                   execution of 2003 budget law; and (iii) major
Chamber of Accounts (CdC) on      - Chamber of Accounts       2003 procurement contracts (which included
use HIPC funds May                (CdC) on use of HIPC        useful comments not only on specific contracts
2001-December 2002.               resources, execution of     but also on procurement systems).
Internet publication of report on budget law, audit of large  IGF also prepared & published key reports.
execution of 2002 budget law.     procurement contracts.     Preparation of CdC's reports on use of 2004
Internet Publication of CdC       - General Finance          HIPC funds, execution of 2004 budget law and
audits on 2001-02 procurement     Inspectorate (IGF.         2004 procurement contracts has been delayed
contracts                                                    but is underway. Completion and publication
                                                             scheduled for next quarter.

Revised decree on role &          - Publication by Petroleum CCSRP assisted by competent Technical
responsibilities of CCSRP         Revenue Oversight          Secretariat produced useful reports commenting
Finalize survey on perceptions of Committee (CCSRP) &        on procurement procedures and efficiency of oil
users on customs services.        circulation through web    revenue-financed expenditures. Annual report
Review by Technical Committee     site of annual & quarterly for 2005 was prepared & published in March
                                  reports on use of oil      2006.
                                  revenue.


Efficient & Transparent Management of
Public Resources - Improved budget
management
Presentation in 2003 Budget of    Trigger No.2: Preparation Preparation of program budgets by growing
MTEFs for health and education    of 2005-07 & 2006-08       number of priority & non-priority sectors &
Preparation of 2004-06 MTEFs      expenditure programs in    ministries. As ministries gain experience,
for health, education, housing,   Health, Social Action,     quality of programs is improving. Preparation
agriculture, livestock & public   Education, Higher          of program-budgets helps integrate priorities of
works before adoption of 2004     Education, Housing,        sector strategies in the discussion of
Budget Law                        Public Works, Justice,     intra-sectoral budget choices.
                                  Agriculture, Livestock, &  Program-budgets would have more influence on
                                  Water & Environment.       structure of voted budgets if budget preparation
                                                             process provided sector ministries with realistic
                                                             estimates of available resources before they
                                                             complete preparation of their programs.
Complete 1st phase of Integrated Trigger No.3:               Slow progress of computerization program.
Financial Management              Computerized Financial     First phase of IFMIS installation completed.
Information System (IFMIS).       Management Information     Adjustments are needed to ensure its



                                                 - 19 -

Training of users in MoF &        System (IFMIS) fully         functionality. Interface between IFMIS &
Treasury                          operational. Monthly         Treasury not yet operational. Payment data are
                                  budget execution Tables      processed separately for transmission by
                                  by ministries produced       Treasury to Budget Directorate.
                                  regularly by Finance
                                  Ministry.
Monthly publication of reports on Continue to prepare          Preparation of budget execution reports
execution of budget (T4P Table)   monthly report on budget     continues through IFMIS. Need to improve
in education, higher education,   execution on expenditures accuracy and consistency of data.
health, social action, public     financed by domestic
works, housing, justice,          resources & budget
agriculture, livestock, & water & support
environment.
Hiring required number of         Trigger No. 4:               Staffing requirements identified. Most of
qualified staff in Budget         Staffing requirements for    the staff needed has been recruited except
Directorate (macroeconomist for   core functions & job         for some positions in Social Action and
forecasting & executives for      profiles in AFDs, Planning Water & Environment. Staff performance
analysis of investment)           Directorates & HRDs have & quality of training affected by rapid
Identify staffing needs in budget been identified & met.       staff turn-over.
preparation & procurement in
health, social action, education,
higher education, housing, public
works, justice, agriculture,
livestock, water & environment
Finalization of action plan to    Trigger No.5:                 No significant follow up. Sporadic efforts to
improve delivery of expenditures Diagnosis of public            initiate computerized monitoring system.
to education & health facilities  expenditures tracking
                                  system to ensure funds        No PETS assessment in the rural development
                                  intended for beneficiaries in sector.
                                  Agriculture, Livestock &
                                  Water & Environment
                                  reach final destination.
                                  Update of health &           On basis of study prepared by CERDO,
                                  education tracking surveys. Bank prepared detailed assessment of
                                  Objective is to define       efficiency of expenditures in health sector.
                                  baseline indicator to        Health ministry plans to review CERDO
                                  measure existing losses &    study. Will comment on methodology and
                                  establish targets through    conclusion and will outline action plan.
                                  detailed action plans.


Efficient & Transparent Management of
Public Resources ­ Improved public
procurement
Develop procurement plans in all Trigger No.6:                 Procurement plans prepared in priority sectors
priority ministries               Finalize procurement         for 2005. Implementation monitored on a
                                  plans for 2005 in all        monthly basis but plans are not regularly
                                  ministries. Monthly          updated.
                                  updating.



                                                  - 20 -

New procurement code signed.       Trigger No.7: Bid          Bid evaluation committees established.
Draft implementation decrees       evaluation commissions & Hampered by lack of capacity. Too many
prepared. Quarterly procurement sub-commissions are           contracts negotiated outside regular competitive
bulletin regularly published.      operational & process      bidding procedures.
Audit 2002 procurement             procurements in priority   Publication of quarterly procurement bulletins
contracts completed &              sectors.                   discontinued for lack of funds, but calls for bids
published..                                                   published in local newspapers.


Efficient & Transparent Human Resource
Management ­Civil Service Reform
Organizational audit of 9 pilot    Trigger No. 8: Regulatory Virtually no follow up. Audit recommendations
ministries. Action plan validated  texts governing role,      and action plan not implemented. Only Finance
by HCI                             organization & missions of developed & adopted detailed action plan to be
                                   Civil Service Ministry,    financed through future PAMFIP project.
Technical Committee with           Payroll Directorate &      Government recently embarked on a review of
representation of all stakeholders establishing role of other the role and organization of the Civil Service
to consult and coordinate civil    ministries in human        Ministry. Consultant selected for preparation of
service reform agenda (TORs        resource management.       legal/regulatory documents.
issued)..
Selection of computerized system Trigger No 9                 Selection of obsolete system, slow
for administrative & financial     Computerized               decision-making process & lack of financing
management of civil service.       administrative & financial delayed full installation. Availability of AfDB
                                   management system of       financing contingent upon government meeting
                                   civil service is           pre-conditions.
                                   operational. Update of
                                   civil service census.


II. SUSTAINED ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
Reform of the cotton sector
Agreement with CotonTchad &        Trigger No. 10:            Consultations with investors & producers
on cross-debts. Report presenting Following investors' &      organized in September/October 2004.
nine divestiture scenarios &       producers' forums. Final   Basic study on social impact of alternative
highlighting social, economic,     reform scenarios selected  scenarios inadequate. This partly explains
financial, institutional &         & studies completed to     delays in selection of final scenario and
production issues to de            assess financial, legal,   elaboration of appropriate institutional and
addressed. Pre-selection of a few  social, institutional &    other supporting measures.
scenarios for further examination. technical implications of  Cordinator appointed. Measures taken to reduce
Technical Committee adopts plan the reform & identify         unit costs. CotonTchad deficit expected to
for strategic development of       supporting measures for    decline from CFAF19.7 to 9.6 billion in
cotton producer organizations.     preparation of bidding     2005-06. However, privatization process
                                   document.                  unlikely to be completed before 2008.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
                                                            25.00           25.00              100


Total Baseline Cost                                         25.00           25.00
                        Total Project Costs                 25.00
                  Total Financing Required                  25.00           25.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
                                                - 22 -

      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




  US$ 25,000,000




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               March 2003                2    Economist
               July 2003                 1    Governance expert
               November 2003             1    Cotton sector specialist
                                         1    Public finance specialist
                                         3    Public sector/decentralization
                                              expert
                                         1    Procurement expert
                                         1    Human development expert

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April 2004                2    Economist
                                         1    Public finance specialist
                                         1    Procurement specialist
                                         1    Financial management specialist
                                         1    Public sector specialist
                                         1    Social development specialist


 Supervision
               February 2005              1   Economist                              S               S
                                          2   Cotton sector specialist
                                          1   Rural development expert
               July 2005                      Cotton sector expert
                                          1   Social development specialist
               August 2005                2   Economist                              U               U
               October 2005               2   Economist


 ICR
                                         3     Economists                            U               U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    26.7                         107,241
  Supervision                              10.3                           25,322
  ICR
  Total                                    37.0                         132,563




                                               - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

No specific document was prepared for this implementation completion report. The Table showing the
sectoral distribution of public expenditures (see Annex 9) was prepared in the context of a March-April
Bank mission to Chad. The assessment in this report is based on Bank reports and discussions with Bank
staff.




                                                    - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Government's report (June 2006)


                                             RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU CREDIT D'APPUI
                                                  AUX REFORMES INSTITUTIONNELLES
                                                                   ( C.A.R.I )


Version provisoire

1.            Pays enclavé situé au coeur de l'Afrique et d'une superficie de 1.284.000 km2, le Tchad est peuplé de 8.545.000 habitants à
fin 2005. Affecté par plusieurs décennies de conflits armés qui ont mis à mal son économie, le gouvernement a mis depuis 1987 le pays
sous programme d'ajustement structurel. En 1992, les nombreux dérapages constatés par les institutions de Bretton Woods au cours
d'une mission d'évaluation ont entraîné la suspension du premier programme.

2.            Grâce à l'ajustement monétaire du FCFA intervenu à Dakar en janvier 1994, le Tchad a pu renouer avec les institutions de
Bretton Woods. C'est ainsi qu'il a négocié avec la Banque mondiale six crédits d'ajustements structurels, dont le dernier, CARI, est entré
en vigueur en 2004 Il a également négocié avec le Fonds Monétaire International un programme triennal dans le cadre de la Facilité pour
la Réduction de la Pauvreté et pour la Croissance qui arrivera à son terme en 2007. Ces programmes ont permis de renforcer puis
parachever les actions entreprises et réaliser des progrès importants dans la stabilisation macroéconomique et financière et les réformes
structurelles. Les réformes ont été également appuyées par le Programme d'Appui à l'Ajustement Structurel (P.A.A.S) de l'Union
Européenne, ainsi que la Subvention à l'Ajustement Structurel (S.A.S) de la France et le Crédit du Fonds Africain de Développement
(FAD) pendant la période 2000-2004.

3.            De nombreuses réformes institutionnelles et structurelles ont été mises en place depuis 1995. Pour consolider ces acquis, le
gouvernement a adopté en 2002 la Stratégie Nationale de Bonne Gouvernance (SNBG) et en 2003 la Stratégie Nationale de Réduction de
la Pauvreté (SNRP). L'élaboration de ces documents de référence a été très laborieuse et faite de manière participative en ce qu'elle a
bénéficié, à différents niveaux de réflexion, d'une large contribution des agents de l'administration publique, des acteurs de la société
civile et du secteur privé et de tous les partenaires en développement. Ces documents constituent des cadres de référence pour
l'assistance à moyen et long terme des partenaires en développement du Tchad. Ils servent également de base pour coordonner les
politiques économiques, financières et sociales du Gouvernement.

                                                        I OBJECTIFS DU CARI

4.            En vue de consolider la stabilité macroéconomique et les différents programmes sectoriels tels que décrits dans les
documents précités, les Autorités ont mis en place, le Crédit d'Appui aux Reformes Institutionnelles (CARI) de l'IDA pour la période
2004-2005. D'un montant de 25 millions de Dollars USA, soit 17 millions de DTS ( Droits de Tirages Spéciaux) versé sous forme d'aide à
la balance des paiements, l'objectif principal du CARI est d'appuyer les priorités identifiées dans le DSRP pour permettre entre autres de
: (i) renforcer la bonne gouvernance et la transparence par la mise en oeuvre de la SNBG à travers l'accès de la population à l'information
publique, la transparence, la mise en place d'un système judiciaire plus efficace, la lutte contre la corruption et le contrôle indépendant de
l'utilisation des ressources publiques ; (ii) assurer une gestion budgétaire efficace et transparente dans l'optique de réduction de la
pauvreté à travers la poursuite de la réforme du cycle budgétaire, le renforcement du cadre réglementaire et institutionnel pour la
passation des marchés publics, la poursuite de la réforme de la Fonction publique par la mise en place d'une gestion plus transparente et
plus efficace des ressources humaines ; (iii) assurer une croissance économique forte et soutenue à travers la production rurale par le
biais du désengagement de l'Etat de la production et de la commercialisation du coton.




                              II   PROGRES REALISES DANS L'EXECUTION DU PROGRAMME CARI

5.            Le programme du CARI qui couvre 2004- 2005 comprend cinq composantes qui concernent les actions et mesures de
gouvernance et transparence, de reforme du cycle budgétaire, de passation des marchés, reforme de l'Administration Publique et de la
reforme de la filière coton. Les multiples actions et mesures réalisées sont aux annexes n°1 et 2 de ce rapport. Mais cette section va
surtout faire le point sur les dix (10) indicateurs de performance du CARI qui constituent les critères de déclenchement de la préparation
de la prochaine opération d'appui budgétaire.

             6. Au titre du renforcement de la transparence, la responsabilité, le respect du droit et la participation,

 i)            Il importe de souligner que grâce au renforcement de capacités des institutions de contrôle et de surveillance par le
             projet GEEP, les audits et les rapports de la chambre des Comptes sur l'utilisation des ressources IPPTE, l'exécution de la loi
             des finances, l'audit des grands marchés attribués chaque        année, les rapports de l'Inspection Générale des Finances (
             IGF) ainsi que les rapports trimestriels et annuels du Collège de Contrôle et de surveillance des Revenus Pétroliers (CCSRP)
             sont régulièrement réalisés en 2002, 2003 et 2004 sur leur site WEB respectif . Il en de même pour ceux des trois premiers
             trimestres de 2005 au niveau du CCSRP. Mais il faut noter que le contrat du site Web du Collège avec Komera est arrivé à
             expiration et peut ne pas être fonctionnel faute de financement. Ceux de 2004 et 2005 sont en cours pour la Chambre des
             Comptes, et l'IGF en raison de difficultés de collecte des données relatives aux statistiques des finances dues d'une part à
             l'informatisation incomplète de la chaîne des dépenses (CID), à la forte mobilité des cadres du Trésor, à l'insuffisance de
             ressources humaines à la Chambre des Comptes et d'autre part à l'existence de la période complémentaire pour sortir la




                                                                     - 29 -

          balance définitive du Trésor.

          Ces rapports sont assortis des recommandations adressées aux Ministres concernés pour des mesures de redressement et
          administratives. En effet, Il y a eu certaines mesures administratives se traduisant en 2003-2004 par le relèvement de poste et
          allant jusqu'à l'emprisonnement de quelques agents responsables pour ce qui concerne l'audit des marchés publics. Cet
          indicateur est réalisé.

          7. Au titre de l'amélioration de la Gestion du budget

ii)       Grâce à l'assistance technique de la Banque Mondiale dans le cadre du projet GEEP, les Ministères chargés de la Santé
          Publique, de l'Action Sociale, de l'Education Nationale, de l'Enseignement Supérieur, des infrastructures, de
          l'Aménagement du Territoire, Habitat et Urbanisme, de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et de l'Eau et de l'Environnement ont préparé
          les budget de programme 2005-2007 et 2006-2008 qui sont en cohérence avec la Stratégie Nationale de Réduction de la
          Pauvreté. Ces questions de cohérence entre la SNRP et les stratégies sectorielles et leur programmation en dépenses à
          moyen terme ont fait l'objet d'un atelier animé par le Directeur Général du Budget. Les budgets programmes 2005 2007 et
          2006-2008 ayant accompagnés les lois de finances 2005 et 2006 à l'Assemblée Nationale sont disponibles. Le défi à relever
          pour que ces budgets programmes soient compatible avec la SNRP est que la lettre de cadrage budgétaire soit disponible à
          temps chaque année. Cela laisserait du temps aux sectoriels préparer ces budgets et de les engagés effectivement à 90 à95%
          pendant l'exercice budgétaire afin que l'affectation des ressources publiques ait un impact réel sur la finalité recherchée qui est
          celle de la réduction de la pauvreté tant en milieu urbain que rural. Cet indicateur est réalisé

iii)         Le Circuit Intégré de la Dépense (CID) est opérationnel au niveau de trois phases de la dépense ( engagement,
ordonnancement et prise en charge). La phase paiement n'est                                      pas complètement bouclée. Cependant le Ministère
des Finances produit régulièrement les tableaux mensuels des quatre phases sur l'exécution du budget. Cet indicateur est
partiellement réalisé en 2004. En effet l'audit du SIG par Gilles CHATIN et le rapport de Raymond CHAUVIN ont montré que le CID
actuel a des limites et qu'il y a des préalables                            techniques à remplir pour qu'il soit pleinement opérationnel.

iv)       En 2004, les Directeurs des Affaires Administratives, Financières et du Matériel nouvellement nommés ont identifié des
          besoins en personnel et le profil des postes pour les fonctions clés au sein de leur administration respective. Il en est de même
          pour les Directions de planification et de   Ressources Humaines. Le personnel nécessaire a été partiellement recruté et
          mis à la disposition de certaines directions notamment à la Santé, à l'Agriculture et aux Travaux Publics pour ce qui concerne
          les économistes dont la plupart sont recrutés pour renforcer les services. La Fonction Publique tente depuis deux ans de
          pourvoir à ce besoin. Cependant les besoins de quelques directions restent encore non satisfaits notamment à l'Action Sociale
          et Famille, à l'eau et Environnement, à l'Habitat et Urbanisme ( voir annexes pour les besoins exprimés par certains
          départements. Cet indicateur est réalisé, bien que l'action soit continue

v)        L'absence de financement n'a pas permis de mener les études diagnostiques du système permettant le suivi des dépenses
          publiques jusqu'à destination (SSDD) au niveau du secteur du développement rural. Cependant dans le cadre de du CAS V et
          du CARI les Secteurs de l'Education Nationale et de la Santé Publique, le SSDD et son plan d'action ont été élaborés et les
          premiers rapports produits par la Santé. Le Ministère de la Santé organisé une 1ère enquête en 2002 et a également organisé
          une 2ème enquête en le SSDD en 2004 avec l'appui du projet GEEP Finances. Le rapport transmis à la Banque Mondiale en
          2005 pour observations est resté sans suite.. Nous confirmons que le SSDD et le plan d'action dans les deux secteurs ont été
          réalisés en 2003 et 2004( voir annexe). En 2005, rien n'est mené comme action dans ce domaine. Par ailleurs nous ignorons
          le fonds PEFA dont il est question. La Cellule Economique et la Cellule Technique GEEP Finances ont eu à mener des études
          diagnostiques sur le SSDD dans les deux secteurs avec le crédit IDA 3316 CD. Ce crédit avait en son temps l'appui du Don
          Japonais mais pas d'autres fonds. Cet indicateur est réalisé pour l'Education et la Santé

8. Au titre de l'amélioration de la transparence et de l'efficience dans la passation des Marchés Publics

vi)       Depuis 2004, tous les ministères impliqués dans la passation des marchés publics ont adopté un plan de passation des
          marchés et un plan d'engagement annuel qui sont transmis au Contrôle Financier et éventuellement à l'OCMP. Ce travail est
          réalisé au premier trimestre de chaque année pour permettre d'exécuter le budget. Ces plans selon les responsables de
          passation de marchés sont suivis au jour le jour et actualisés trimestriellement par rapport aux réalisations. Le plan de
          passation est annuel et il y a de suivi mensuel mais pas une mise à jour mensuel ( voir annexe n°3 pour le plan de passation
          mis à jour). Cet indicateur est réalisé.

vii)      les Commissions d'Ouverture et de Jugement des Offres (COJO) et les sous                           commissions techniques et de
          présélection sont installées officiellement en          2005 dans tous les Ministères. Elles sont opérationnelles et traitent les
          marchés dans tous les secteurs sans exclusion. Cet indicateur est réalisé. L'indicateur 7 ne concerne pas le débat engagé
          sur le marché de gré à gré qui a été au centre des discussions techniques pendant la mission multi bailleurs de mars et avril
          2006 Une recommandation reglant cet abus est inscrite à l'annexe 3, point 3.2, alinéa i) du document conjoint Gouvernement -
          Bailleurs de Fonds sur les défis et opportunités en matière de Réduction de la Pauvreté et Renforcement des Capacités. Il en
          est ressorti la nécessité de renforcement des capacités en matière de passation des marchés

Pour ce qui concerne la promotion d'une gestion plus transparente et plus efficace des ressources humaines dans la fonction
publique,

viii)      Il importe de noter que s'agissant des textes régissant le rôle, l'organisation et    les missions du Ministère de la Fonction
Publique ( qui devrait s'occuper de la       gestion de carrière des                   agents de l'Etat) et le transfert de compétence aux




                                                                   - 30 -

ministères en matière de gestion de ressources humaines, aucun acte n'a été jusqu'ici pris. Toutefois une réflexion pour l'
organisation du Ministère de la Fonction Publique est menée et un consultant était attendu pour l'élaboration                 des textes devant
régir la Fonction Publique. Cet indicateur n'                                    est pas réaliséparce que le plan d'action issue de l'audit
Institutionnelle de Ministères pilotes n'est pas internalisé bien qu'il soit validé par le Haut Comité Interministériel. Il n'est
pas réalisé parce qu'il manque de ressources pour la mise en oeuvre des plans d'action. Les ressources du PAMFIP peuvent-elles
suffire pour régler les questions                                                transversales ? la question s'adresse et au Gouvernement
et à ses partenaires au développement notamment la Banque Mondiale.

ix)         Le Système Intégré de Gestion administrative (SIG) développé par les informaticiens de la CESRAP a été abandonné par le
            Haut Comité            Interministériel au profit du SIGASPE (Système intégré de gestion             administrative, salariale et du
            personnel de l'Etat) du Burkina Faso. L'audit du SIG fait par le consultant Gilles CHATIN en 2004 et le rapport du consultant
            Raymond CHAUVIN en 2005 ont mis à nu les difficultés liées au transfert de                 ce progiciel burkinabé. Selon R. Chauvin,
            ce progiciel du CID actuel est assis sur oracle obsolète et pour que le transfert du SIGASPE réussisse, il y a des                    étapes
            techniques préalables incontournables nécessitant un an de travail et           de financement. Cet indicateur n'est pas réalisé.
            Néanmoins le recensement des agents de la Fonction Publique a été réalisé en 2004 par le système de paiement sur
            présentation physique du bénéficiaire de salaire uniquement à N'Djamena. Cette procédure qui n'a pas couvert tout le pays a
            permis de déceler 204 agents décédés et une trentaine d'agents en situation d'abandon de poste pour une économie
            sur salaire de 40 millions et 12 millions respectivement

9. Quant à la reforme du secteur coton

x)          il y a lieu de noter que les forums des investisseurs et des cotonculteurs ont             respectivement eu lieu le 30 septembre et
            début octobre 2004. Le scénario final n'est pas choisi par le gouvernement. Cependant une feuille de route                  est
            adoptée en août 2006 par le Haut Comité Interministériel. Des mesures                      concrètes sont déjà prises par le gouvernement
            conformément à l'agenda de cette feuille de route. Cet indicateur n'est pas réalisé ; il est en cours car la date butoir inscrite
            dans le chronogramme est fixée en janvier 2008 pour la               privatisation de la cotontchad. L'état d'avancement de la feuille
            de route est à l'annexe du rapport.


                                                   III   PERFORMANCES REALISEES

                                             A)          PERFORMANCE DU GOUVERNEMENT

10.           Le Gouvernement s'est investi à travers tous les services ministériels concernés par le CARI tant au niveau de la préparation
qu'au niveau de l'exécution des actions et mesures pour honorer les engagements contractuels. De la bonne gouvernance à la reforme de
la filière coton, beaucoup de reformes institutionnelles ont été réalisées notamment le renforcement des institutions de contrôle et de
surveillance par la création de la Cour de Discipline budgétaire, de l'Inspection Générale des Finances, du Ministère chargé du Contrôle
Général d'Etat et de la Moralisation, des Tribunaux de Commerce. L'organisation des états généraux de la justice ont débouché sur une
stratégie de reforme de la justice. Les états généraux des Armées ont abouti à l'élaboration d'un cahier de charge. La révision du code de
marchés publics et ses textes d'applications ont permis la mise en place de l'Organe Chargée des Marchés Publics (OCMP), des
Commission d'Ouverture et des Jugements des Offres (COJO) ainsi que la création de Comité de Recours et de Règlement à l'Amiable
(CRRA).

11.          Au niveau macro économique, la stabilité est maintenue et le PIB réel est inscrit sur le sentier de croissance avec un PIB non
pétrolier en hausse de 12,2% tiré par l'accroissement de la valeur ajoutée du secteur agricole de 20,2% et un taux d'inflation à 7,9%,
supérieur à l'objectif communautaire de 3%.

12.          Au niveau des finances publiques, les recettes publiques sont inscrites en hausse depuis dix ans grâce à la reforme du cycle
budgétaire confortée par les ressources pétrolières. Les dépenses sont maîtrisées de concert avec les partenaires à travers les missions
d'évaluation et de revue à mi parcours.

13.          Des difficultés de réalisation de certains actions et mesures préalables en vue de bénéficier de l'appui budgétaire à temps sont
dues à la non prise en compte de quelques éléments d'appréciation quant à la réalisation des actions et mesures. Cela est rendu plus
difficile par l'insuffisance des ressources financières affectées à la réalisation des critères de réalisation quantitatifs et structurels des
programmes. Le dernier malentendu relatif à la modification de la loi portant gestion des revenus pétroliers opposant le Gouvernement et
la Banque Mondiale, considérée au Tchad comme chef de file des bailleurs multilatéraux, a été une entrave assez sérieuse dont les effets
pervers pour l'aboutissement de beaucoup d'activités méritent d'être soulignés.

                                           B) PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE

14.          D'une manière générale la performance de la Banque Mondiale n'est pas à démontrer car tous les exemples de succès du
CARI sont le fruit d'une bonne coopération entre le Gouvernement et les services de la Banque Mondiale. Les multiples missions de
revues sont d'une importance capitale pour la bonne exécution des programmes et projets. Cependant, il faut une bonne programmation
et coordination de missions pour que cela soit efficace dans le suivi et l'exécution des activités des pays bénéficiaires. Il y a cinq ans, les
missions au titre de l'article IV du FMI étaient conjointes avec la Banque Mondiale voire tripartites avec la Banque Africaine de
Développement. Ces derniers temps, la Banque Mondiale les organise seule et le FMI également. Cela perturbe beaucoup les services
bénéficiaires de l'appui budgétaire qui sont constamment sollicités pour les mêmes documents à fournir.

15.          Il faut noter que le suivi du CARI par la Banque Mondiale en 2005 n'est aussi régulier comme par le passé pour des raisons



                                                                      - 31 -

que la partie Tchadienne ignore. Ceci s'est produit bien avant le malentendu ci-dessus évoqué. Le dialogue qui vient de s'instaurer entre
le Gouvernement et la Banque Mondiale a permis de trouver un compromis à la satisfaction des deux parties et permettra de relancer la
coopération entre les partenaires en développement du Tchad à des fins de lutte contre la pauvreté dans notre pays.

                                                      IV        LECONS A TIRER

16.        Pour la réussite des programme d'appui budgétaire, il faut une bonne programmation des missions et en assurer un bon
monitoring. Cela doit se faire en prévenant le pays d'accueil de la mission, un mois d'avance et en lui communiquant l'agenda et les
termes de référence de la mission. Cela évitera les reports inutiles de réunions dus à l'absence de données devant servir de base de
discussions.

Il importe de discuter en plénière les aides mémoires et les mémorandums de politiques de développement et soumettre toutes les
actions préalables à l'appréciation des services en charge de leur réalisation. En effet, par manque de temps, tous les aides mémoires
ne sont pas soumis à l'examen.

Tout plan d'action ou toute mesure considérée comme action préalable ou critère de réalisation quantitatif et structurel doit disposer des
moyens technique, financier et matériel pour sa réalisation. Que l'Institution donatrice affecte un pourcentage de cet appui au volet suivi
évaluation des actions à réaliser dont la Coordination est assurée officiellement par la Cellule Economique qui assure en même temps le
Secrétariat du Comité Technique et du Haut Comité Interministériel de préparation et de négociation des programmes.

Il est souhaitable que le Gouvernement et les partenaires accordent une attention particulière à ce point pour la bonne coordination, le
suivi de l'exécution des programmes. La performance de porte feuille pour le pays dans la stratégie d'assistance au pays (SAP) en
dépend.




                                                                  - 32 -

Additional Annex 9. Structure of Public Expenditures


(In percent of total domestically-                Budget                      Execution
financed expenditures)


                                       2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005
Priority Sectors                       51.9 49.5 48.0 57.4 58.6 45.8 45.7 49.9 52.8
Non-oil budget                          51.9  38.9  26.9   19.6  23.1  45,8   39.1  31.8  18.0
Oil budget                               -     -    14.7   34.0  35.5    -     -    13,5  33.7
HIPC budget                              -    10.6  6.4    3.8    -      -    6.6   4.6   1.2
Health & Social Action                  10.4  12.2  10.2   9.1   8.7   9.6    10.7  9.7   7.4
Non-oil budget                          10.4  8.9   6.9    3.2   3.0   9.6    8.5   7.8   2.9
Oil budget                               -     -    1.1    4.9   5.7     -     -    0.2   3.9
HIPC budget                              -    3.3   2.3    1.0    -      -    2.2   1.8   0.5
Education                               16.8  19.3  14.1   17.9  16.8  17.4   19.6  15.6  16.8
Non-oil budget                          16.8  17.6  10.3   10.9  8.3   17.4   19.0  12.0  11.0
Oil budget                               -     -    1.2    6.4   8.4     -     -    2.0   5.5
HIPC budget                              -    1.7   1.8    0.6    -      -    0.6   1.5   0.3
Rural Development                       15.7  11.7  9.0    9.3   13.7  12.2   10.0  7.0   8.2
Non-oil budget                          15.7  8.4   5,2    3.7   6.9   12.2   8.2   5.5   2.8
Oil budget                               -     -    2.5    4.7   6.8     -     -    1.0   5.3
HIPC budget                              -    2.3   1.3    0.9    -      -    1.8   0.6   0.2
Infrastructure/Territorial Development  4.4   5.5   12.0   17.1  15.9  1.6    4.4   14.2  16.7
Non-oil budget                          4.4   3.2   1.9    1.1   2.3   1.6    2.5   3.1   1.1
Oil budget                               -     -    9.1    14.7  13.6    -     -    10.3  15.4
HIPC budget                              -    2.2   1.0    1.3    -      -    2.0   0.8   0.2
Mining & Energy                         4.7   0.8   2.6    4.0   3.6   5.1    0.9   3.3   3.7
Non-oil budget                          4.7   0.8   2.6    0.7   2.6   5.1    0.9   3.3   0.1
Oil budget                               -     -     -     3.3   1.0     -     -     -    3.6
HIPC budget                              -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -     -
Non-priority Sectors                   48.1 50.5 52.0 42.6 41.4 54.2 54.3 50.1 47.2
Non-oil budget                          48.1  49.2  43.6   40.7  40.4  54.2   53.6  48.8  45.5
Oil budget                               -     -    7.5    1.4   1.0     -     -    0.4   1.4
HIPC budget                              -    1.3   0.9    0.5    -      -    0.8   0.9   0.2
Defense & Security                      23.0  17.1  14.2   15.6  14.4  25.0   19.8  17.7  19.6
Non-oil budget                          23.0  17.1  14.2   15.6  14.4  25.0   19.8  17.7  19.6
Oil budget                               -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -     -
HIPC budget                              -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -     -
President's & Prime Minister's Offices  4.2   4.1   2.4    3.5   3.4   6.3    4.6   3.0   4.0
Non-oil budget                          4.2   4.1   2.4    3.5   3.4   6.3    4.6   3.0   4.0
Oil budget                               -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -     -
HIPC budget                              -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -     -




Source: Bank staff estimates, Aide-mémoire of multi-donor mission, April 2006.




                                                    - 33 -

Additional Annex 10. Rates of budget execution in priority and non-priority sectors

        (In CFAF billion)       Voted budget           Executed budget          Rate of execution

2002 Overall budget                  168                      150.2                  89.4%
        Priority sectors            87.3                       68.8                  78.8%
        Health                       17.5                      14.3                  81.7%
        Education                    28.2                      26.2                  92.9%
        Rural Development            26.4                      18.3                  69.3%
        Infrastructures              7.4                       2.4                   32.4%
        Other sectors               80.8                       81.4                 100.7%

2003 Overall budget                 187.1                     161.5                  86.3%
        Priority sectors            92.6                       73.7                  79.6%
        Health                       22.9                      17.3                  75.5%
        Education                    36.1                      31.7                  87.8%
        Rural Development            21.9                      16.1                  73.5%
        Infrastructures              10.2                      7.2                   70.5%
        Other sectors               94.5                       87.8                  92.9%

2004 Overall budget                 250.7                     195.2                  77.9%
        Priority sectors            120.3                      97.3                  80.9%
        Health                       25.7                      19.0                  73.9%

        Education                    35.4                      30.4                  85.9%

        Rural Development            22.6                      13.7                  60.6%

        Infrastructures              30.2                      27.8                  92.1%

        Other sectors               130.3                      97.9                  75.1%

2005 Overall budget                 248.0                     227.2                  91.6%
        Priority sectors            142.2                     120.0                  84.4%
        Health                       22.5                      16.7                  74.2%

        Education                    44.4                      38.2                  86.0%

        Rural Development            23.0                      18.7                  81.3%

        Infrastructures              42.4                      37.9                  89.3%

        Other sectors               105.7                     107.2                 101.4%


Source: Bank staff estimates, Aide-mémoire of multi-donor mission, April 2006.




                                                - 34 -

Additional Annex 11. Recent evolution of key indicators in priority sectors




                                          - 35 -

Education                                           2000     2001     2002      2003     2004   2005
Gross primary school enrollment ratios              71.8%    76.9%    80.5%    83.9%     87.7%
Gross primary school enrollmt ratios (girls)        50%                                   69%
Completion rates                                              33%     37.8%    36.4%      38%
Health
Access rates (hospitals)                                               80%     89.5%      93%    89%
Access rates (health centers)                                          74%                74%
Vaccination rates (DTC 3)                           31.1%    27.4%    40.8%    41.8%     49.9%   55%
Infant mortality rates (per thousands)               214                                  191
Maternal mortality rates (per 100,000 births)        827                                  1099
Water
Rates of access in urban areas                      17%       19%      20%      24%       27%    30%
Rates of access in rural areas                      27%                29%      30%       31%    32%
Rural development
Area under irrigation (in thousands of hectares)                                 20        25     30
Cereals production (in millions of tons)                                        1.6       1.2     1.8
Cotton production (in thousands of tons)             184      143     164.5     186.7     102    207.4
Transport
Network of paved roads (in kilometers)               346      559      559      559       559    669
Improved gravel roads (in kilometers)               1879     1714      1714     1794      2078   2078
Maintained roads (in kilometers)                             2814      3018     1760      3153   3097


a) Comments on indicators:
    ·     Gross primary school enrollment ratios increased rapidly from 71.8 percent in 2000 to
          83.9 percent in 2003 and 87.7 percent in 2004. Completion rates remain low but
          increased from 33 percent in 2001 to 38 percent in 2004. Data for 2005 are not available
          but are expected to confirm ongoing improvements in these ratios.
    ·     In the health sector, progress is slow. Rates of access increased for hospitals but
          stabilized for health centers. Rates of vaccination (DTC3) improved and infant mortality
          rates declined but maternal mortality rates increased over the past five years.
    ·     Access to safe drinking water increased in both urban and rural areas but remain very low
          (30-32 percent in 2005).
    ·     In the transport sector, the network of paved roads and improved gravel roads increased
          and sound management of the Road Fund helped increase the network of maintained
          roads.
    ·     In the rural development sector, area under irrigation increased from 20,000 hectares in
          2003 to 30,000 in 2005 and cotton production following a sharp decline in c2004 doubled
          in 2005.

b) Links between increases in sector spending and progress of indicators:
    ·     The dramatic increase in transport sector expenditures in 2003 and 2004 is largely
          responsible for the recent increase in the length of the paved and gravel road network and
          the good results of the road maintenance program. .
    ·     Low rates of budget execution and the relative decline in the share of health in total
          government spending is one of the factors that explain modest improvements in health
          indicators.
    ·     In education, the rapid increase in gross school enrollments and other primary education
          educators seems to result more from efforts made to reduce unit costs (recruitment of
          community teachers with salaries equivalent to less than 10 percent of regular civil
          service teachers) than from the modest increase in education spending.




                                                     - 36 -

Additional Annex 12. Governance Indicators

                                           Kaufmann and /Kray Indicators
                        Point estimates between -2.5 and 2.5 - Ranking based on a list of 51-67 IDA countries

                                          2002                         2004
Indicator                        Rating Ranking Rating Ranking
Political stability                -1.54         55/66          -1.20           48/66
Rule of Law                        -0.82         29/51          -1.15           51/66
Government effectiveness           -0.68         31/66          -1.29           58/66
Regulatory quality                 -0.96         43/60          -0.84           43/65
Control of corruption              -0.94         41/56          -1.14           46/67
Voice & accountability             -0.95         41/60          -1.09           47/66
Source: Governance Indicators for 1996-2004 by D.Kaufmann, A.Kraay and M.Mastruzzi ­ May 2005

Notes:
     ·     Kaufmann and Kraay have created 6 measures of governance using 25 different sources constructed by 18
           different organizations. The above Table ranks Chad in a group of 51-67 IDA countries selected for the
           Global Monitoring Report of 2006.
     ·     Chad's ratings are low and generally declining from 2002 to 2004 except for political stability and regulatory
           quality. Chad's ratings and rankings are particularly low for government effectiveness and rule of law.
.
                                                        CPIA Indicators
                                 On a scale of 0 to 6 - Ranking based on a list of 36 African countries

                                                                                        2002                   2005
Indicator                                                                     Rating Ranking Rating Ranking
Cluster A-C: Economic Management, Structural Policies,                           3.5          21/36        3.1    24/36
Policies for Social Inclusion
Cluster D: Public Sector Management and Institutions                             2.7          25/36        2.4    31/36
Cluster D-12: Property rights & rule-based governance                             2.5          31/36        2.0    33/36
Cluster D-13: Quality of budgetary & financial management                         3.5           9/36        3.0    17/36
Cluster D-14:: Efficiency of revenue mobilization                                 2.5          35/36        2.5    34/36
Cluster D-14: Quality of public administration                                    2.5          29/36        2.5    29/36
Cluster D-16: Transparency, accountability & corruption in public sector          2.5          32/36        2.0    31/36


Notes:
     ·     CPIA indicators assess the quality of the country's performance on policy and institutional framework.
     ·     As in the case of the K&K indicators, Chad's ratings are generally low and declining.




                                                                   - 37 -

- 38 -

