Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1278 
Operation Name 
Uganda Poverty Reduction Support Credit 5 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (20%);General water, 
sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);Health (20%);General 
education sector (20%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry 
sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P090881 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA 
Implementing Agency 
OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER 
Date PID Prepared 
January 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 29, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 15, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Uganda's economic performance in the past decade was impressive, with the average real rate of GDP growth 
over six percent per annum The pace of economic growth moderated at the end of 1990s due, in part, to a sharp 
decline in the terms of trade, as a result of decreased international coffee prices. The living standards of Uganda's 
poor have nevertheless increased in the past ten years since 1992. 
 
Despite impressive macroeconomic performance and a dramatic fall in poverty in the 1990s, more than 35 percent 
of the population remain in poverty in Uganda. This poverty incidence has increased slightly since 2000.  Also, 
the GDP growth rate growth rate has slowed down. Moreover, despite the substantial increase in government 
resources allocated for social services; commensurate progress in social and human development has not been 
forthcoming. Although key education and health indicators have improved in the past decade, most social 
indicators are still worse than the average in the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa Public services are often still 
inadequate and/or of poor quality.  
 
The Government has responded to these challenges by preparing a comprehensive medium-term development 
strategy, the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP). The plan has recently been revised for the third time, and it 
is on the basis of this plan that World Bank is assisting government in preparing a Fifth Poverty Reduction 
Support Credit (PRSC5).
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The overall objective of the proposed PRSC4 will be to support the implementation of Uganda's revised 
PEAP/PRSP. The credit/grant provides budget support, and much technical assistance and advice in formulating 
policy reforms for selected areas of the PEAP/PRSP where the institution has a comparative advantage. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The fifth annual Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC5) to the Republic of Uganda will support 
implementation of the revised Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) of 2004. The proposed operation builds 
on a series of PRSC’s which have established a rolling three-year reform program in support of the PEAP.  These 
PRSCs were approved by the Board in May 2001, July 2002, September 2003, and September 2004 respectively. 
As explained in the Country Assistance Strategy, it is expected that PRSC5 will be succeeded by two further 
operations and the anticipated priorities for these two operations are highlighted in this brief. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
Page  2
The operation is supporting policy and institutional reforms with little direct impact on environment. The 
operation supports development of a stronger institutional framework for environmental regulations and policy 
through focusing on policy reforms for these areas and agencies.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Bruno Boccara 
Title: Task Team Leader 
Tel: (1-202) 473 9074 
Fax:  
Email: bboccara@worldbank.org 
 
