Report No. PIC5480
Project Name                      Bangladesh-Private Sector ...
Infrastructure Development Project
Region                            South Asia
Sector                            Private Sector Development
Project ID                        BDPE44789
Borrower                          Government Of Bangladesh
Implementing Agencies             For Project Financing -
Infrastructure Development
Company Limited (IDCOL)
For Project Development & Facilitation
Infrastructure Investment
Facilitation Center (IIFC)
Addresses: Chief Executive Officer, IDCOL
Regd. Office - c\o Juris Counsel
9, Mohakali CA (9th floor) Dhaka 1212
(Ph: 8802 871960; Fax:8802 872871)
IIFC (to be established)
Contact: Mr. C.M.Mohsin
Additional Secretary, ERD
Government of Bangladesh Dhaka.
(Ph: 8802 811971; Fax: 8802 811660)
Project Appraisal                 June 1997 (Completed)
Project Board Date                October 9, 1997 (Proposed)
BACKGROUND
1.      Bangladesh has one of the lowest infrastructure indicators in
the world, such as 14 percent of households having access to power
and only 16 kilometers of paved roads per 100 square kilometers of
land. Besides depriving a large part of the country's population
access to basic services, poor infrastructure stifles economic
output, makes exports less competitive and domestic production
expensive. It is estimated that sustaining reasonable economic
growth requires gross investment of nearly 20 percent of GDP per
annum, of which the historical average is 25 percent in energy and
infrastructure. Against the US$ 1.75 billion per annum of
investment that this share implies, present Annual Development Plan
(ADP) allocations, not actual expenditures, for the energy and
infrastructure sectors are nearly half. Against the backdrop of the
declining trend in availability of donor fund flows, this creates a
compelling scenario for the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) to
maximize other non-donor and commercial sources of capital funding.
However, in view of the constraints imposed by the limited capacity
of domestic capital markets, poor state of infrastructure
utilities, an ill-defined policy, legal and regulatory framework,
and the chronic sickness of the financial sector, it is a



formidable challenge to target private investment for
infrastructure development. A beginning can be made by promoting
initiatives that address these constraints and infuse some
confidence in the private sector to view the country's investment
potential more favorably.
OBJECTIVES
2.      Against this background, the Private sector Infrastructure
Development Project (PSIDP) seeks to promote the development of a
modern and efficient infrastructure system in Bangladesh, with the
significant participation of the private sector in the financing,
construction and operation of infrastructure facilities. This broad
objective translates into the following specific goals: (i)
promoting development and facilitating implementation of privately
sponsored infrastructure projects, (ii) providing mechanisms for
mobilizing commercial equity and debt financing for infrastructure
projects, and (iii) creating an appropriate framework for the
sustained and efficient operation of private infrastructure projects.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.      The PSIDP will establish a Private Sector Infrastructure
Development Fund (PSIDF) to provide limited long term debt
financing to selected energy and infrastructure sub-projects.
Technical assistance will be made available to GOB for transaction
development and facilitation, capacity building, institutional
development and for conducting feasibility studies, sub-project
procurement and undertake sectoral reform initiatives. The IDCOL
and the IIFC will be the institutional windows for implementing
these components respectively. PSIDP assistance will cover power
generation and transmission, gas and gas related infrastructure,
toll roads, water supply, urban environmental services, ports,
telecommunications, and other basic infrastructure.
Components                                        (US$M)
Project Finance Lending - provision              225.00
of long-term subordinated debt
for sub-projects.
Technical Assistance - for institutional          21.00
development, advisory services, strengthening
GOB capacity, sub-project development
and promotion. (includes cofinancing
from CIDA and DfID-UK)
Total
246.00
PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.      The key benefits are an increased flow of foreign investment,
reduced need for public investment for infrastructure development,
increased efficiency in the construction and operation of
- 2 -



infrastructure, enhanced Government capacity to tackle policy,
regulatory and project related issues and significant employment
generation. Besides, the project will contribute to addition of at
least 800 MW of thermal power generation capacity in the private
sector, development of private port facility, faster development of
toll roads and water supply facilities.
5.      The principal risks are maintaining a high degree of GOB
commitment to project goals, ability to overcome resistance from
entrenched interests against private sector role in infrastructure
and the sustained, efficient operation of new institutions being
set up for the project. The response of the private sector has so
far been very positive, but this would change adversely if
macroeconomic or political stability of Bangladesh is eroded. These
risks are to be mitigated through the strong policy and sector
development work in the project, emphasis on maintaining a high
degree of Government commitment. Furthermore, since the project
promotes creation of new assets, it would take a gradualist
approach to private sector participation in different
infrastructure activities.
IMPLEMENTATION
6.      The project financing would be administered by IDCOL as an
agent on behalf of GOB. It will primarily on-lend the IDA credit
with certain limits and stipulations as defined below, to eligible,
privately sponsored infrastructure sub-projects. For the purpose of
conducting its project finance business, IDCOL will contract the
services of an internationally reputed firm or consortium to
provide all types of advisory services. Since the objective of the
project is to maximize project financing from commercial market
sources, terms of IDCOL lending have been determined appropriately.
Also, IDCOL will keep its debt in potential sub-projects to a
minimum and would operate on an absolute ceiling of 40 percent of
total project cost (including financing costs). Loans shall carry
maturities of upto 23 years and a maximum grace period of 8 years.
Interest on the loan would either be on a variable basis (6 month
US$ LIBOR plus a premium of 350 basis points) or a fixed basis (US$
fixed to variable swap rate for the appropriate maturity and a
premium of 350 basis points). These are starting terms and are
subject to periodic review. Furthermore, terms would be determined
on a case by case basis, taking into account the risk factors and
the potential for market financing. On the project development
side, the IIFC as an agency of the Government, will establish an
appropriate interface for private and public sector to forge
partnerships and enable development of sectoral frameworks and
transactions. It will be a reservoir of expertise available to GOB
line agencies for development, marketing and contracting of viable
projects for private sector participation.
SUSTAINABILITY
7.      The efficient operation of the project will be ensured by
adequate supervision, advice and support, in the form of
professional experts made available through TA resources. The basic
-3 -



idea is to promote a few key transactions covering all
infrastructure sectors over the next 5-6 years, so that these serve
as vehicles to establish the appropriate framework in each sector
for sustained development and operation of future projects. The
provision of long term debt is also intended to cater to present
market constraints, leading to the ultimate objective of developing
a framework whereby private financing would be available without
the additional comfort of World Bank or GOB support.
LESSONS LEARNED
8.      Similar operations in Asia, notably in Pakistan and India,
have been successful in leveraging substantial non-government
guaranteed funding for infrastructure development. Best practice
lessons from these projects have been applied, as well as certain
weaknesses in these operations have been avoided, especially on the
institutional side. Care has been taken to base the project on a
realistic pipeline of sub-projects. The project has taken into
account the presence of visible government commitment, manifest in
its up-front policy and transaction work in the energy sector.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS
9.      Since the project will support large infrastructure projects,
it has been rated Environmental Category A. Since the final sub-
projects are not known at this stage, a clear framework for
addressing all environment and social aspects likely to arise under
the project has been prepared. The project has set a new standard
by preparing a comprehensive environment and social assessment
framework for potential sub-projects. GOB prepared the Environment
and Social Framework document (ESF) by engaging the services of a
leading NGO in Bangladesh. Following satisfactory consultations
with other NGOs in Bangladesh, the ESF has been approved by the
Bank and made available at the PIC. All sub-projects to be
developed and financed under this project have to conform to the
ESF guidelines.
PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
The project will increase the general access to more adequate and
efficient infrastructure services. It will therefore have some
poverty alleviation impact by accelerating economic growth and
providing better services to improve the quality of life. It will
also promote private sector development and environmentally
sustainable infrastructure development in the country.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
- 4-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 15, 1997.
- 5-



