Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17022-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 168.6 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FORA
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 7, 1997
Energy Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate September 1997)
Currency Unit US$1 - Taka 43.650
US$1.394080 - SDRI
Fiscal Year
July I to June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAA                   -       Agency and Administration Agreement
ADB                   -       Asian Development Bank
ADP                   -       Annual Development Plan
BOO/BOT               -       Build-Own-Operate/Build-Operate-Transfer
BPDB                   -      Bangladesh Power Development Board
CAS                   -       Country Assistance Strategy
CEO                   -       Chief Executive Officer
CIDA                  -       Canadian International Development Agency
DCA                   -       Development Credit Agreement
DfID-UK               -       British Department for International Development
DWASA                 -       Dhaka Water and Sanitation Authority
ERD                   -       Economic Relations Division
ERR                   -       Economic Rates of Return
ESF                   -       Environmental and Social Framework
GDP                   -       Gross Domestic Product
GIDP                  -       Gas Infrastructure Development Project
GOB                   -       Government of Bangladesh
IA                    -       Investment Advisory
IAA                   -       Investment Advisory Agreement
IASP                  -       Investment Advisory Services Provider
ICB                   -       International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   -       International Development Association
IDCOL                 -       Infrastructure Development Company Ltd.
IFC                   -       International Finance Corporation
IIFC                  -       Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center
LDCs                  -       Least Developed Countries
LIB                    -      Limited International Bidding
MIGA                  -       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF                    -      Ministry of Finance
ODs                   -       Operational Directives
PERs                  -       Public Expenditure Reviews
PSIDF                 -       Private Sector Infrastructure Development Fund
PSIDP                  -      Private Sector Infrstructure Development Project
RA                    -       Resident Advisor
RE                    -       Rural Electrification
SDR                   -       Special Drawing Rights
TA                    -       Technical Assistance
TORs                  -       Terms of Reference
Vice President:               Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:             Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager:               Alastair McKechnie
Task Team Leader:             S. Vijay Iyer



BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROJECT FINANCING DATA                     ........................................1
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION .........................................2
1.            Project development objectives                   .2
2.    Project description                                 .3
3.    Project components                                  .4
4.            Key performance indicators                      .4
5.   Project benefits                                    .4
6.            Institutional and implementation arrangements           .5
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE ...........................                                      11
7.            Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project .11
8.            Main sector issues and Government strategy .11
9.            Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .13
10.           Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .14
11.           Lessons learned and reflected in the project desig .15
12.           Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .15
13.           Value added of Bank support .16
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENT                       ..................................... 16
14.    Economic assessment .16
15.    Technical assessment .18
16.    Financial structuring .18
17.           Institutional assessment .20
18.           Environmental and social assessment .20
19.           Procurement arrangements .21
20.   Disbursements .23
21.   Sustainability .24
22.   Critical risks .24
23.           Possible controversial aspects .26
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ........................................ 26
24.           Effectiveness conditions .......................................       26
25.           Key Implementation Covenants ....................................... 27
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES    .................               ...................... 27
ANNEXES:
1.            Project Design Summary .28
2.            Performance Monitoring Indicator .32
3.  Flow of Funds .33
4.            Sector-wise Summary ad Sub-project Pipeline .45
5.            Environmental and Social Framework Summary .51
6.            Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh .57
7.            Bangladesh at a Glance .59
8.            Project Processing Budget and Schedule .61
9.             Documents in the Project File .62



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
FOR A PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval a proposed development credit to the Government of
Bangladesh for SDR 168.6 million (US$ 235 million equivalent) to help finance a Private Sector
Infrastructure Development Project. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a
maturity of 40 years including a grace period of 10 years. The project would make available partial
debt financing for eligible, privately sponsored, infrastructure projects and assist the Government
of Bangladesh to identify and develop new infrastructure projects with a potential for private sector
participation. The financing component would be operated from a Private Sector Infrastructure
Development Fund (PSIDF) to be established with the IDA credit. Loans made to various private
sector sponsors of infrastructure projects would be on maturities of up to 23 years, including grace
periods of up to 8 years, and would be denominated in US dollars. The private sector sponsor will
carry the foreign exchange risk. The two options for interest rates are initially:
(a)    Variable - 6 month US$ LIBOR plus a premium of 3.50 percent.
(b)    Fixed - based on the term of the loan and the appropriate US$ swap rate, plus a
premium of 3.50 percent.
2.     Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association. I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D. C.
October 7, 1997
Vice President    - MiekoNishimizu
Country Director  - Pierre Landell-Mills
Sector Manager   - Alastair McKechnie
Task Team Leader - S. V. Iyer



International Development Association
South Asia Region
Project Appraisal Document
Bangladesh: Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
Date:                      October 7, 1997                 [ I   Draft    [X] Final
Task Manager:             S.V.Iyer                       Country Director:  Pierre Landell-Mills
Project ID:               BD-PE-44789                    Sector: Energy and Infrastructure
Lending Instrument:       Specific Investment Loan    PTI:    [ I  Yes               [XI     No
Project Financing Data             I]  Loan   [X]   Credit  [ I  Guarantee   [ I          Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 235 million (SDR 168.6 million)
...............~~~~ ~~~~............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Proposed Terms:                               [XI Multicurrency   [ I         Single currency
Grace period (years):           10.years    [    Standard             [X]   Fixed   [    LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity:              40 years
Commitment fee:                 n.a.
Service charge:                 0.75%
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                            Local                Forein                       Total
Co-financiers                                                              11.0                         i 1.0
(UK DflD - US$7.5m,
CIDA - US$3.5 m)
IDA                                                    -                   235.0                       235.0
Private Sector Financing                              80.0                 560.0                       640.0
Total                                                 80.0                 806.0                       886.0
Borrower:                      People's Republic of Bangladesh
Guarantor:                     N.A.
Responsible agencies:          Infrastructure Development Company Ltd. (IDCOL)
Private Sector Sponsors of various infrastructure projects
Ministry of Finance (MOF) - Economic Relations Division (ERD)
Infrastructure line ministries and agencies
Estimated disbursement                        1998       1999       2000       2001       2002             2003
(Bank FY/US$M)
Annual    10.00        60.00      80.00      50.00     25.00             10.00
Cumulative       10.00     70.00    150.00   200.00   225.00                235.00
For Guarantees: N.A.
Expected effectiveness date:                                               Closing date:
January 1, 1998                                                            December 31, 2002



2
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRI3PTION
1.  Proiect Backzround and Obiectives
Bangladesh has one of the lowest level of infrastructure indicators among developing countries. A mere 14
percent of households have access to electricity, there are just 2 telephone lines per 1000 people, nearly 60 percent
of the population lacks access to safe drinking water and only 16 kilometers of paved roads are available for every
100 square kilometers of land area.' A large part of the country's population is thus deprived of access to basic
services necessary for minimum quality of life standards. Furthermore, poor infrastructure stifles economic
output, renders exports less competitive and makes domestic production of goods disproportionately expensive. In
order to promote sustained economic growth, gross investment levels need to rise from the present 14 percent of
GDP to nearly 20 percent of GDP per annum, or to nearly US$ 7 billion annually. Nearly 25 percent of new
investment has to be directed towards infrastructure development in order to fuel and sustain a decent level of
economic growth. This implies a minimum requirement of nearly US$ 1.75 billion per annum, against which
present Annual Development Plan (ADP) allocations (not actual expenditures) for infrastructure are less than a
billion dollars, leaving a large investment deficit of US$750 million annually. Traditional sources of investment
financing, both from government's fiscal resources and overseas development assistance are inadequate, and are in
fact declining. In this scenario, Bangladesh faces an uphill challenge to meet its ongoing infrastructure investment
needs.2
Private participation offers significant potential to hasten the pace of infrastructure development, expand
access and deliver efficient services. It would serve to attract commercial finance, thereby reducing the pressure
on public investment. Bilateral and multilateral lending agencies also emphasize market oriented funding
strategies for projects that can generate revenues and be implemented by the private sector. Private participation
would also bring benefits in terms of new technology and increased efficiencies. For all these reasons, the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has articulated a strong commitment to accelerate infrastructure development
through private participation. This project seeks to support Bangladesh in its bid to develop a modem and
efficient infrastructure system. with the significant participation of the private sector in the financing, construction
and operation of infrastructure facilities.
This is a challenging task in view of Bangladesh's track record to date in attracting private investment.
Presently foreign private investment inflows - mostly equity - are less than US$100 million annually. Domestic
capital markets are underdeveloped and too narrow to provide equity or debt financing in excess of US$ 10
million for any one transaction. Besides, project developers and commercial financiers are cautious about
committing infrastructure related investments to Bangladesh. While its macro-economic stability, policy
orientation and the evident potential in the energy sector draw favorable responses; the poor management and
creditworthiness of public sector utilities, lack of adequate legal and regulatory framework, slow procurement
processes and transparency concerns are cited as major impediments. These constraints seriously limit the
market's appetite for investment, especially in terms of making longer term commercial debt available for projects
in Bangladesh.3 Hence, special mechanisms to address financing constraints and render the sector and transaction
regimes more attractive and efficient are needed in order to attract private investments on the scale required to
implement large infrastructure projects.
I Bangladesh- An Agenda for Action: World Bank Report, June 1996.
2Bangladesh - Public Expenditure Review: World Bank, 1996.
3These observations are substantiated by the findings of the more formal South Asia Barriers study, a draft report of which is now
available.



3
2. Proiect Description (see Annex 1 for Project Design Summary)
The Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP) is proposed as the vehicle for delivering
assistance to GOB for: (i) proactively developing and marketing sound sub-projects for private investment; (ii)
establishing speedy, competitive and transparent procurement processes for realizing private sector participation
in such sub-projects; (iii) providing appropriate mechanisms for reasonable risk sharing and mobilizing
commercial investment in the form of equity and debt financing for infrastructure sub-projects; and (iv) creating
suitable legal and regulatory structures in the various infrastructure sub-sectors for the sustained and efficient
operation of private infrastructure facilities.4 As instruments, it proposes to employ a mix of technical assistance
(TA), lending, and advisory services. Technical assistance (TA) is being made available to identify and develop
viable project transactions, promote efficient, transparent and international competitive bidding processes and
formulate suitable contractual arrangements to cater for the absence of legal and regulatory frameworks in some
sub-sectors. Initial projects in each sub-sector would facilitate the formulation of a sectoral framework and
establish a degree of confidence in the Government's policies and strategies. TA under the project would help in
translating this initial momentum into a sound legal and regulatory framework for the sustained development and
operation of private sector projects over the medium term.
Several sub-projects in the gas and electricity sectors are at various stages of development. Some of these
transactions are likely to be finalized within the next year. The key constraint to these sub-projects being
implemented is the lack of long term debt financing, which is necessary to ensure financial viability, given their
large size, long economic life and payback periods. These are priority projects designed to address crippling
energy deficiencies, and PSIDP support is perceived as critical to overcoming financing constraints and
facilitating their implementation (see section on sub-project pipeline, page 12-13). The PSIDP therefore, proposes
to provide long term debt financing from IDA resources by establishing the Private Sector Infrastructure
Development Fund (PSIDF). This facility will work in tandem with equity sponsors, commercial and institutional
lenders to help mobilize capital financing for eligible sub-projects. It is expected to play a catalytic role by being
able to provide the extent of debt required by sub-project transactions to meet financing shortfalls that remain
after the full complement of equity and debt has been realized from market based sources. Such debt financing
will operate on a maximum ceiling of 40 percent of total project cost. However, in order to maximize its leverage
and provide a greater degree of comfort to potential lenders, PSIDF debt would be offered for longer terms and
will be subordinated to other commercial and institutional credits. In Pakistan, this form of debt financing through
Bank funds for the first few private sector power projects has been successful in generating investor confidence
and has helped to mobilize nearly three times as much funding in the form of non-government guaranteed debt
from commercial and institutional sources.
The project will potentially cover sub-projects in power generation and transmission, gas and gas related
infrastructure, toll roads, water supply, urban environmental services, ports, telecommunications, and other
projects for the development of basic infrastructure. The initial transactions are expected to be in power
generation (as independent power producers -IPPs), gas pipeline and transmission sub-projects and
telecommunications. Transactions in the ports, water supply and highway sub-sectors are perceived to carry
greater risks and will therefore, involve longer lead times and more substantial development work. TA will be
made available to assist transaction development and facilitation. The PSIDP will also complement Bank and
donor driven initiatives designed to address policy, institutional and regulatory deficiencies in different sub-
sectors. It is also meant to work in partnership with other Bank group institutions and instruments, such as IFC's
'A' and 'B' loans and MIGA guarantees, to achieve maximum leverage for IDA funds in each project.
4 Henceforth in the document, 'project' refers to the main IDA credit project - the PSIDP, and 'sub-project' refers to projects developed by
GOB for private sector investment/operation or potential candidates for PSIDF financing.



4
3. Proiect comoonents
Components                                             Category        Cost Incl.       % of Total
Contingencies
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____(UJS$M )
Project Finance ComDonent - provision of
subordinated debt for privately sponsored infrastructure  Lending       225.00            91.5%
projects
Proiect Finance Comwionent - TA for establishing          TA             7.00              2.8%
project executing agency for on-lending activity.
Project Development Process - TA to strengthen GOB        TA             14.00             5.7%
capacity to realize private sector investment in
infrastructure projects.
(including US$ 11 million in cofinancing)               Total           246.00            100.0%
4. Key Performance Indicators
The agreed performance indicators are described in Annex 2. The indicators are structured on the following
basis: (i) overall increase in the country's infrastructure capacity at the beginning and at the end of the project;
(ii) increase in the share of private ownership and operation of infrastructure assets; (iii) amount of non-
guaranteed debt finance mobilized for infrastructure projects; (iv) number of infrastructure projects identified and
developed for private sector participation; and (v) establishment of processes and frameworks for promoting such
participation.
5.  Project Benefits
Beneficiaries: (i) the people of Bangladesh, who will have increased access to more adequate and efficient
infrastructure services; (ii) GOB, which will benefit through addition of infrastructure development resources and
introduction of private sector efficiency and management culture in the infrastructure sectors; and (iii) private
sector investors, both local and foreign, who will receive financial, institutional and policy related comfort for
investment in new infrastructure projects in the country.
Macro benefits: (i) Reduced need for public investment in infrastructure development, thus enabling GOB to
deploy more funds to meet poverty alleviation and social development objectives; (ii) rapid development of a
modem and efficient infrastructure system in Bangladesh through the financial, technical and managerial
resources of the private sector; (iii) increased flow of foreign investment into new infrastructure projects; (iv)
enhanced Govemnment capacity to tackle the policy, regulatory and project related issues in the different
infiastructure sectors; and (v) significant employment generation in the construction and operation of new
infrastructure projects.
Project benefits: (i) Addition of at least 800 MW of thermal power generation capacity in the private sector; (ii)
enhancement in available gas transmission infrastructure; (iii) development of sub-projects to enhance port
capacity, establish new toll highways and augment water supply; (iv) developing policies, strengthening
regulations and building appropriate capacity in Government to select, develop and market soundly structured
projects for private participation; (v) establish government capacity for promoting environmentally sustainable
and socially acceptable implementation arrangements for privately sponsored infrastructure projects.



5
6. Institutional and imDplementation arran2eements
A. Implementation period: 5 years - November 1, 1997 to December 31, 2002
B. Implementation Arrangements:  The project has two components - project financing and sub-project
transaction development. The financing component is designed to provide support for sub-projects that meet
eligibility criteria for PSIDF funding and where the sub-project sponsors have reached the limit of mobilizing
market based financing. The PSIDF will be operated by an independent commercial institution, the Infrastructure
Development Company Limited (IDCOL). IDCOL will partner other institutional and commercial lenders to
mobilize the volume of finance required for eligible sub-project transactions. Transaction development, on the
other hand is a government-led function and involves initiatives by project agencies, line ministries and
parastatals. The coordinating institution for sub-project transaction development is proposed to be the
Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center (IIFC). The IIFC will be established during project implementation.
The diagram below represents the respective activities that constitute these two components and the responsible
institutions.
Private Project Development and Financing.....
DEVELOPMENT                    FINANCING
IIFC and GOB Agencies          IDCOL and other
financial institutions
IDENTIFICATION                        MARKET
_         /    ~~~~ASSESSMENT
FEASIBILITY
APPRAISAL
STRUCTURING
PROJECT    ~STRUCTURING
PROMOTION             PIPELINE         CLOSING
MARKETNGVG
DISBURSEMENT
PROCUREMENT
CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACTING
OPERATION
PERMITTING
REPA YMENT
REGULATION
(i)  Arrangements for implementing the projectfinance component
(a)  The project finance component aims to ensure that soundly structured, economic priority sub-projects,
which have received or are in the process of receiving GOB approvals and concessions, are able to mobilize
adequate debt financing. IDA credit, channeled through GOB, would be made available to such sub-projects,
provided they meet eligibility criteria laid down in the project agreements and with due regard to the principle of
IDA credit being the "lending of last resort." The credit process and all aspects of sub-project financing will be
managed by a special purpose project finance company called the Infrastructure Development Company Limited
(IDCOL). IDCOL has been incorporated as a government owned Company under the Bangladesh Companies'
Act, 1994 and is registered to function as a non-banking financial institution under the Bangladesh Financial
Institutions Act. As an agent of GOB, its sole function is to administer the PSIDF and on-lend funds to eligible,
privately sponsored infrastructure sub-projects. It is expected that such sub-projects would be structured as
build-operate-own (BOO) or build-operate-transfer (BOT) projects (or variations thereof) and financed on a
limited recourse basis.



6
(b) IDCOL has been structured as an autonomous, commercial entity. As per Company law, it will be governed
by a Board of Directors, consisting of seven shareholder members, of which three are private sector
representatives and three others are public sector nominees. The seventh member of the Board - the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) - will be a professional manager and is to be selected through global advertisement.
IDCOL's administration of PSIDF on behalf of GOB is an agency arrangement and will be governed by an
Agency and Administration Agreement (AAA), entered into between the two parties. To ensure that IDCOL
manages PSIDF on commercial principles, it has been exempted from the operation of public sector rules and
regulations, such as those governing employment, remuneration and procurement of services.
(c) In order to conduct its operations, IDCOL will engage high quality Investment Advisory (IA) services. The
Investment Advisory Services Provider (IASP) will be an internationally reputed and experienced firm, or
consortium, with significant project financing skills and experience.5 The IASP is being engaged through
international competitive solicitation, conducted under IDA procurement guidelines. This process has been
launched with the publication of a global advertisement for inviting expressions of interest. The IASP, under the
overall directions of the IDCOL Board, would be responsible for identifying potential sub-projects that require
support, processing interest from and interfacing with potential sub-project sponsors, conducting sub-project
appraisals, preparing analysis and recommendations for the IDCOL Board and IDA, implementing decisions in
respect of specific proposals and negotiating and finalizing all legal arrangements with sub-project borrowers and
other financial participants in the transaction. In addition, the IASP will be responsible for preparing and
managing the loan disbursement schedule, monitoring implementation of projects diligently as a prudent lender
would, and maintaining appropriate liaison with other lenders. In this context, the IASP would be guided by the
World Bank's standards on financial management and project monitoring. The governance of the IA services
contract would be through an Investment Advisory Agreement (IAA) to be entered into between IDCOL and the
IASP. The IASP's work would be led by its Resident Advisor (RA), whose qualifications and experience will be
significant factor in the procurement of the IA services. Sub-project processing by IDCOL and its interface with
IDA and GOB is described in the Operations Manual attached in Annex 3.
(d) IDCOL's Operations Manual requires that transactions be professionally and competitively procured, under
clearly established, transparent and internationally solicited procurement processes. Unsolicited proposals would
be entertained only in cases where competitive selection is not possible or is inappropriate. A good beginning in
this regard has been made by the process established and conducted for two major electricity generation projects -
Haripur and Meghanaghat (see project pipeline in Annex 4). Similar arrangements would be encouraged for the
other sub-sectors. In the case of unsolicited sub-projects, extra care and caution will be exercised by IDCOL,
under strict IDA supervision. IDA Credit based financing in such transactions will be deployed only against
approved procurement, made in line with the Bank's guidelines and standards. As a further safeguard, IDA credit
proceeds under subloans would be disbursed directly to suppliers against authorized expenditures, cleared by
procurement as per defined thresholds. Appropriate special accounts for administering TA and building reserves
for repayment of IDA obligations are being established as per standard practice. These arrangements are
described in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between IDA and GOB and the Project Agreement
between IDA and IDCOL. Once sub-projects are cleared for lending by IDA and approved by IDCOL, standard
sub-loan documentation would be executed between the sub-project borrower and IDCOL. Disbursement advices
on behalf of the borrower to IDA under the sub-loan agreement would be issued by IDCOL. Standard IDA
disbursement procedures shall apply.
It will likely be a professional consulting or investment banking firmn, a project finance company or a consortium with different types of
ftrms. The key attributes would be an ability to evaluate the commercial viability of potential sub-projects and manage the lending
function. Since it is a multisectoral initiative, the IASP should have access to a range of professionals for all sectors covered under PSIDP.



7
(e) The IDA credit to GOB is denominated in SDRs as per standard practice. Subloans from IDCOL would be
denominated in US$, on the prevailing rates on the date of disbursement between US$ and the currency of
disbursement. Payments of interest and repayments of principal by the borrowers would be made in Taka
equivalents of the appropriate dollar amount on the date of repayment. Thus, the foreign exchange risk would rest
with the sub-project borrowers. IDCOL will maintain the accounts of each borrower in US dollars and transmit
the equivalent Taka credits (repayments of principal and interest) to an account in the Bangladesh Bank, called the
'Repayment Account.' The Repayment Account will be operated by IDCOL and credits to this account will be
used to: (i) set aside a reserve for repayment of IDA obligations; (ii) support operating expenses of IDCOL, if so
required; and (iii) on-lend to new sub-projects in the future. This arrangement will ensure that the PSIDF works
on a sustained basis to continue as an investment resource and that the repayment proceeds from initial subloans
do not become part of the GOB budget.
(f) In terms of status, IDCOL has been incorporated and has started functioning. The procurement process for
the engagement of the IASP has been approved by the Bank and has been initiated with the publication of an
international advertisement. The process to recruit a full time CEO for IDCOL has also been launched. IDCOL
will utilize IDA TA of US$7 million for establishment expenses and meeting IASP's costs for the first four years
of the project. Though the IASP contract will be ultimately funded entirely from interest income and fees
charged to sub-borrowers, the proceeds of TA may be deployed for meeting the cost of IA services during the
initial period, and shall subsequently be repaid through income earned from fees, etc., charged to sub-
borrowers. IDCOL will be financially independent after the first four years, and at no time during those four
years, or later, is it likely to require GOB budgetary support for its operational expenditures. (For a detailed
discussion of implementation arrangements, IDCOL's capacity, governance and operational quality control issues
and financial arrangements, please refer sections 16 and 17, Block 3, on "Project Assessment" and IDCOL
Operations Manual at Annex 3.)
(ii) Arrangements for implementing the TA for sub-project development
(a)  Bangladesh needs assistance to establish sound policy and regulatory frameworks and develop sub-projects
transactions economically and efficiently, so that private participation can be realized and sustained. TA under
this component will be jointly provided by IDA, DflD (formerly ODA) and CIDA (co-financiers). The TA will be
available to GOB infrastructure agencies and line ministries for promoting private sector participation, both at a
policy level and to promote specific transactions. This would enable both government and private sector to
minimize transaction costs and secure infrastructure development at least cost. Assistance is required by line
agencies and ministries prior to transactions, for establishing proper framework and policies, identifying viable
sub-projects and carrying out pre-feasibility studies. During transactions, assistance is required for conducting
competitive and transparent procurement processes, marketing sub-projects to encourage good competition among
quality sponsors and managing the entire process of structuring, documentation, bidding to negotiations and
concession awards. After award, both the private sector developer and the public sector counterpart agency need
help to ensure timely construction and to respectively operate and regulate the project as per various project
agreements. At present, most government agencies or parastatals in Bangladesh lack the capacity to carry out
these activities effectively. This is sought to be overcome by establishing a core advisory services unit - the
Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center (IIFC) - to provide continuous assistance on all transaction aspects
described above.



8
(b) The IIFC will have basically five functions; advocating policy and strategies; providing advice and support
to line agencies for transaction development; making available resources for transaction development; interfacing
with private sector developers and facilitating infonnation needs, training and knowledge development for both the
public and private sectors. It is not intended to encroach on the technical and contracting functions of line
agencies, but to support their efforts by providing high quality professional expertise, where required. It
would play a coordinating role in addressing cross-sectoral issues of policy and process development, such as
formulation of appropriate BOO/BOT framework for Bangladesh. The IIFC would also facilitate
implementation of approved sub-projects, such as by enabling project sponsors to interface with relevant
agencies and secure timely clearances. Though the IIFC is not required for first few transactions which are
already developed, it is viewed as being necessary in the longer term, both to establish an efficient window for
public-private sector interface and to develop a reservoir of expertise and knowledge and to sustain the private
infrastructure program.
(c) The IIFC is in the process of being established. A round table was organized in Dhaka on September 9 and
10 to discuss and build consensus on the organization, structure and functions of the proposed IIFC. Leading
representatives from government, private sector, parastatals, financial institutions, donor agencies, as well as key
political opinion makers participated in the event. The recommendations of the round table are now under GOB's
consideration. The consensus has been in favor of establishing a high profile small unit, to be jointly owned and
managed by the public and private sectors, equipped suitably to work with various govermnent agencies and
promote efficient partnership with the private sector. The electricity sector in Bangladesh has successfully
developed IPPs through the Power Cell, an IIFC-like organization set up exclusively for that sub-sector. The
IIFC would begin by taking the positive aspects of the Power Cell experience and applying it to cover other sub-
sectors.
(d) TA resources under the project are described below. Application and management of TA resources
would be coordinated by the IIFC, in consultation with the Government and various (donors. Standard
Special Account procedures would apply for IDA's TA administration.
A. Sources of Funds ( in US$000)
International Development Association (IDA)            $3000
British Department for International Development (DfiD-UK)    $7500
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)       $3500



9
B. Uses of Funds (in US$000)
Activity                1       2      3        4      5       Total
Legal/Policy Framework Preparation   300    300                              600
ration Suort
ong Term Advisory Services         1000   1000   1000    1000   1000        5000
Equipment                           300                                     300
raining and Institutional Capability  200    200    150    150      50      750
uild-up
Marketing and Promotions             100    200    200      200    150       850
Project Preparation Funds for FS,
Solicitation Documents, Short-Term  1300   1800    1800    800    800        6500
Advisers
Total                              3200   3500   3150    2150   2000    14000
(iii) Project coordination and oversight
From the preparation stage itself, the emphasis in this project has been on securing the fuill participation of
stakeholders, such as concerned agencies of the government, private sector and various development partners in
coordinating project activities. A Project Finance Workshop held in September 1996 was instrumental in building
consensus and articulating the commitment of various players to project objectives and design elements. The
effort would be to continue such consensus building into the operative phase of the project by involving various
work units within the Bank, IFC and MIGA, the co-financiers - DfID-UK and CIDA, other development partners
- CDC, ADB and OECF, private sector trade and business organizations, and concerned govermment agencies. At
the government level, project coordination vests with the Ministry of Finance, Economic Relations Division
(ERD).
(iv)  Accounting,fnancial reporting and auditing arrangements
The accounting and financial reporting arrangements for the financing component of the project will be
established with IDCOL, details of which are available in Annex 3, Operations Manual for IDCOL. These
provisions include: (a) preparation of quarterly reports by IDCOL and submission to IDA, co-financiers and
GOB; (b) annual audits of IDCOL and the Repayment Account in Bangladesh Bank by independent and
internationally reputed auditors, reports of which would be reviewed by IDA, co-financiers and GOB; and (c)
annual audits of IDCOL by independent auditors and as necessary, by the Auditor General and for the Special
accounts in Bangladesh Bank, as per standard practice adopted for all IDA projects in Bangladesh.
(vi) Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements
Since the project is multi-sectoral in scope and comprises both lending and wide ranging technical assistance,
the monitoring and evaluation arrangements reflect this complexity. This also implies a higher degree of
supervision resources to be committed. This will vary with the pace at which sub-projects are developed and
financed, but the expectation is that it would be in the range of 20 staff weeks per annum.



10
(a)  Evaluation of IDCOL's lending quality - will be carried out during regular supervision missions, twice
annually. The Evaluation team will include IDA project team members and representatives from GOB and the co-
financiers. Evaluations will assess the impact of the lending in terms of sub-project quality, costs, compliance with
operational and financial criteria and the degree of leverage achieved in terms of private investment dollars
realized for each dollar of IDCOL lending. This will include regular performance audits of IDCOL and these
performance audits would review the compliance of operational guidelines in selecting and approving sub-project
loans.
(b)  Monitoring effectiveness of TA to IIFC and line ministries - To be evaluated during the supervision
missions. Considering the nature of IDA's role here, monitoring and supervision on an ongoing basis will be done
by the Bangladesh Dhaka Office (BDO) and the concerned sector units in the South Asia Region (SAR). For
instance, in the matter of advice to the Ministry of Shipping on conducting feasibility studies for a port
development project, the monitoring role will be met by South Asia Infrastructure Sector Unit (SASIN) and BDO,
with the participation of interested donors, such as DfID-UK. In essence, the institutional partnership and the
concept of having a multi-sectoral project team would be continued from the preparation phase into the
implementation phase.
(c) Monitoring compliance with IDA's environmental and social guidelines - The project overall is judged to
have moderate to high risk on the environmental and land acquisition, resettlement and social front. As a result, it
is rated "A" for environmental assessment purposes. An Environmental and Social Framework (ESF) has been
prepared by GOB (approved by IDA) to provide a process within IDCOL to identify risks early on and advise
private sponsors to take appropriate measures to mitigate these in line with GOB and IDA standards. The actual
risk would vary from project to project. For example, a telecom project will have low risks; a gas-fired power
plant moderate risks; and a highway or port project is expected to have high risks. The scope of the environmental
and social assessment will be based on the results of the upfront environmental and social screening process to be
undertaken by IDCOL at the initial stages of entertaining a funding proposal. It is IDCOL's primary
responsibility to ensure compliance with the standards and guidelines laid down in the ESF. IDCOL will be
equipped to meet this responsibility through the provision of a Corporate Consultant on Enviromnent and Social
Compliance, who shall be an integral part of the contract package of the IASP. IDA will back-stop IDCOL's due
diligence. The table below describes the IDCOL-IDA interface in this regard. The ESF also provides for external
independent monitoring of environmental and social compliance issues.
Environmental and Social Assessment Milestone  Output to be submitted to IDA
Screening                                     Initial screening report
Finalization of terms of reference for ESR6    Terms of Reference
Review of ESR                                  ESR reviewed by IDCOL
Translation of agreements into instruments     Lenders Agreement along with other Agreements
Monitoring                                     Compliance report
Environmental and Social Audit                 Audit compliance report
6 ESR - Environmental and Social Review.



11
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE
7.  Sector-related CASgoals supported by theproject.
The latest CAS document (Report No. 14998-BD) was issued on September 26, 1995, and was updated in
November 1996. The project supports the following CAS objectives:
(a)  Promoting dynamic private sector participation in infrastructure.
(b)  Improving energy supplies and efficiency.
(c) Improving and expanding infrastructure in energy, transport, water, urban services and ports.
(d)  Redefining public sector role in infrastructure and improving the policy and regulatory environment.
8.  Main sector issues and Government strategy
(a)  Readinessforprivate sectorparticipation: An assessment of readiness of the various sub-sectors towards
private sector participation has been completed. There is high degree of readiness in the energy sector, relatively
less so in telecommunications and only a preliminary state of readiness exists in other sub-sectors. The general
assessment is that the momentum generated by private participation initiatives in the energy sector can translate
into similar initiatives in the other sub-sectors over the next 2-3 years. On the transactions side, at least one
potential sub-project is under development in almost every sub-sector and these initial transactions can serve as
the leading edge for implementing required changes in sub-sectors. GOB has exhibited a strong willingness to
bring about such changes and pursue viable transactions vigorously. Experience from other countries
demonstrates that the impetus created by a transaction approach can lead to sustained efficiency gains, provided
that it is quickly followed by a sectoral strategy of reforms and privatization. The following matrix illustrates the
degree of readiness on policy and transaction aspects. Details of the principal sectoral and institutional issues
relevant to the project are explained in Annex 4.
Sector                        Readiness for private sector varticivation
Sectoral Aspects                          Transaction Aspects
Power       Consensus has been reached on a comprehensive  Transaction regime is well developed, with clear
reform program for the sector; unbundling and   policy framework, institutional mechanism (Power
commercializing of utilities and creation of a  Cell) to contract sub-projects, sound contracting
culture of accountability, and establishing  arrangements with pre-approved documentation
regulatory mechanisms. The reform vehicles  and a clear, well supported, transparent and
would be ADB 's IX Power project and IDA 's  competitive process. Two projects (Haripur and
Power Development project.                 Meghananghat) are at an award stage and one
other project is in the final bid stage.
Negotiations on 4 barge projects are underway.
Gas       Private participation in gas production is  Transaction regime is well developed. An
already present. Bank and ADB are jointly  international competitive bidding process for
developing reform options, especially to address  award of drilling concessions is underway. Gas
industry structure, pricing and regulatory issues.  infrastructure, such as pipelines and downstream
A Bank funded Energy Issues Study is underway.  facilities are likely candidates for PSIDP.



12
Sectoral Aspects                          Transaction Aspects
Telecoms     Private participation in some categories of  Individual transactions from private operators
services present. Work towards developing a new  possible. New BOO/BOT projects are in the early
-         Telecom law and sector regulation for a    stage of development. Transaction framework will
competitive, multi-operator environment is  develop with the first sub-project.
currently underway. Supported by the IDA
Telecom sector regulatory support project.
Transportation   Readiness for private participation low. There is Individual transactions not ready. One major
a culture ofprivate operation of inland    sub-project in each sub-sector is being developed,
transportation, but assets owned by public  in the pre-feasibility stage at present. Defining
sector. There is no policy or legalframework  the sub-project and contracting under BOO/BOT
and amendments to laws or new laws may be  type structure would require TA support.
necessary. Several IDA and other donor funded   Minimum 2-3 years required to bring first
investment projects are ongoing and under  transaction to market.
preparation, but real impetus will come from the
first transactions in roads and ports.
Water and other  State of readiness low. Basic strategic issues  Some transactions identified, but will require
sectors     being addressed. Reform issues under        substantial development work. Potentialfor bulk
formulation and are proposed to be addressed    water supply projects and urban waste
through IDA project under preparation.     management type of projects is very high.
(b)  Sub-project pipeline: The firmness of the sub-project pipeline varies by sector. It is well advanced in
electricity generation and gas infrastructure, less so in telecoms and fairly preliminary in transportation and water.
The following table lists the various sub-projects and their status, and the assessed probability of becoming
PSIDP transactions. (For detailed description, see Annex 4)
1. Haripur      360 MW gas combined cycle, BOO project.   High probability of IDCOL funding - US$40-80
Power           Final price bids under evaluation following   million. Due diligence to commence November 1997,
ICB.                                    fund commitments possible in early 1998.
2. Meghanaghat  450 MW gas combined cycle, BOO project.   High probability of IDCOL funding - nearly US$ 80
Power           Final price bids under evaluation following   million. Due diligence to commence November 1997,
ICB.                                   fund commitments possible in early 1998.
3. Khulna Barge   100 MW, gas fired barge mounted power    IFC playing lead role in arranging finance. Only
Mounted Power   plant. Sponsor already selected through ICB   medium probability of IDCOL funding. Participation
(Consortium led by Wartsila NSD).      from IDCOL likely to be limited to less than US$20
Agreements initialed - final negotiations in   million, if sponsor (and IFC) unable to mobilize
progress. High priority for GOB.        sufficient commercial debt.
4. Chittagong    100 MW, gas fired barge mounted power    EFC playing lead role in arranging finance. Only
Barge Mounted   plant. Sponsor already selected through ICB   medium probability of IDCOL funds. Participation
Power           (Consortium led by Smith Cogeneration).    from IDCOL likely to be limited to less than US$20
Agreements initialed - final negotiations in   million, if sponsor (and IFC) unable to mobilize
progress. High priority for GOB.        sufficient commercial debt.



13
Note: Both barge power plants are on a tight time schedule - sponsors are required to deliver power within the next 12 months.
IDCOLfinancing wouldfacilitate meeting this time schedule and will help to ensure that environmental issues are adequately
addressed.
5. Baghabari     100 MW, gas fired power plant.         Medium to high probability. Approximate level - US$
Power           Prequalification on ICB completed. Final    20 million. IDCOL appraisal may start in January
price bids due Nov. 16, 1997.           1998.
6. Western Area   Development of gas field, pipeline and 200-  Unocal has sought IDCOL financing for pipeline.
Integrated       300 MW gas fired power plant at Khulna.    Medium probability sub-project for IDCOL.
Energy Project   Unsolicited project proposed by Unocal  Preliminary appraisal may commence soon, and if
Corporation. Negotiations ongoing to   found feasible, detailed appraisal will start January
finalize project parameters and gas wheeling  1998.
tariff.
7. 300,000 line    Basic telecom project for Dhaka. Concept    High probability that IDCOL support will be needed.
Telecom BOT     approved, pre-feasibility starts November  PSIDP TA to be employed to develop proposal and
Project          1997.                                   ensure ICB process.
8. Dhaka Bulk    50 million gallons/day facility, for supply to   High probability that IDCOL support will be needed.
Water Supply    Dhaka Water Supply Authority. Concept   PSIDP TA to be employed to develop proposal and
Project          approved, pre-feasibility may start Jan.  ensure ICB process.
1998.
9. Container    250,000 TEU container port. Proposal    Development likely to take 2-3 years. High probability
Terminal,       delayed for resolution of basic issues. Pre-    that IDCOL support will be needed. PSIDP TA to be
Chittagong      feasibility to start thereafter.        employed to develop proposal, ensure ICB process and
address environmental and land issues.
10. Dhaka       40 km long tolled bypass around Dhaka city.  Uncertain and low probability. Basic structuring
Bypass Road     Pre-feasibility completed and options    issues not resolved. Development time likely to exceed
Project         presented to GOB. Decisions awaited.     3 years.
The PSIDP needs to be established immediately, because of the advanced stage of sub-projects 1 to 4 and the
seriousness of the power shortages, which are extracting a heavy toll on the economy.
9. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
(a)  Sectors to be supported: Besides creating an enabling environment for private sector participation in all
major infrastructure sectors, PSIDP will support the following initiatives under other proposed and ongoing IDA
projects:
a) Restructuring and reforms in the gas and power sectors.
b) Introduction of a sound tariff policy for power and gas, with appropriate regulation.
c) Promotion of specific policies and laws if necessary, for private participation in traditionally public
infrastructure areas, such as roads, ports and telecommunications, urban services and water supply.
(b)  Strategic positioning: The project has strategically chosen to play a predominantly catalytic role. There is
a need for providing greater comfort to potential private sector participants in an untested market like Bangladesh.
The project therefore provides for subordination of PSIDP loans to other forms of commercial debt. The long
maturity and the subordination feature make this financing very attractive. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure
that sufficient up-front due diligence on a case-by-case basis is carried out to deploy PSIDP lending as a catalytic
means to maximize leverage effect and thereby operate the fund on the principle of last resort lending. The project



14
proposes to do this through ex-ante assessment of debt-finance constraints in specific sub-projects. IDCOL would
take this assessment into account and limit commitment to the amount perceived as the financing gap in a
transaction. For example, an upfront assessment by IDCOL of the extent of support required for the Meghnaghat
and Haripur power generation sub-projects led to placing a cap of US$80 million to each sub-project, which
amounts to nearly 20-25 percent of project cost in each case. The balance is to be mobilized by the sponsors from
market based sources. IDCOL shall encourage sponsors to seek prior participation of institutional lenders such as
IFC, ADB's private sector window, CDC, export credit agencies and commercial financial institutions before
committing any PSIDP resources to a sub-project. Particularly with regard to IFC and MIGA, PSIDP will play a
complementaxy financing role. Incentives to the Investment Advisor of IDCOL are structured to reward increased
leverage of IDCOL funding and success in attracting debt financing from IFC etc. so that debt which does not
require governnent guarantees is maximized.
(c)  Size of Credit: The credit size is based on an assessment of the sub-project pipeline and applicability of
principles outlined in (b) above. It is expected that over the next 2 years, two to three electricity generation
projects would absorb nearly US$150 million. Besides these, PSIDP support to the tune of US$20-30 million is
considered necessary for the financial closure of the first barge mounted power projects in Bangladesh,
negotiations for which are ongoing between GOB and successful bidders. IFC, which is likely to support the two
barge projects, shares this view and is likely to play a key role in arranging the financing. A further US$40-50
million may be needed to attract private sector interest in other sectors, notably telecommunications and gas
infrastructure. Accordingly, a total lending component of US$225 million has been provided. Together with TA
component of US$10 million; of which $7 million would go towards TA for IDCOL and $3 million towards
supporting IIFC initiatives, the total credit amount is proposed to be US$ 235 million.
(d) Project Timing: The PSIDP is strategically timed. The timing of its preparation coincided with the opening
up of the electricity, gas and telecoms sectors in Bangladesh. Project effectiveness is timed to match the need for
financing of the first few transactions in the energy sector. The TA component of the PSIDP will be able to
capitalize on the momentum generated as a result of the energy sector transactions and will provide timely support
to GOB and its agencies for promoting similar initiatives in other sub-sectors.
10.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
(a) VVhile it is evident that private funding cannot entirely substitute for public investmnent in infrastructure
development, one possible alternative is to continue with "business-as-usual" public funding even for those
projects that can be done on a commercial basis. Such projects would then absorb a large complement of
shrinking overseas donor assistance, crowding out public investment in non-commercial projects, such as
rural infrastructure, health and education. Besides the declining availability of donor resources, the
alternative of public investment was rejected in view of the slow pace of public sector project implementation
and GOB's desire to realize increased efficiencies and newer technologies through private participation.
(b) Employing other financial instruments, besides lending. As per assessments conducted, it has been found that
long term loans are the only product feasible at this stage, given the inexperience with infrastructure project
finance and the rather limited maturity of capital markets in Bangladesh. However, the project intends to
explore other financial products in relation to infrastructure projects at the mid-term review stage. Notably,
take-out of largely sponsor supported construction financing as long term debt by the facility could be
considered. The PSIDP design is flexible enough to operate in tandem with IDA partial risk guarantees, in the
event that these become approved Bank instruments in the near future. In fact, PSIDP would then be able to
enhance the leverage of its available funding substantially.



15
(c) The alternative of using existing public sector financing institutions over creating a new Company (IDCOL)
was rejected in view of the poor state of such institutions in Bangladesh, their lack of expertise and experience
in international project finance and limits set by Bangladesh Bank on capital adequacy and lending to any one
sector or project. Furthermore, GOB's preference was to keep this operation out of the purview of traditional
public sector institutions and government procedures, and to establish a new culture of commercial decision
making.
11. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
This is the first project of its kind in Bangladesh. The basic nature of the PSIDP makes it riskier than other
more conventional IDA projects. The project team has therefore, taken note of positive and negative aspects of
similar initiatives launched in Pakistan, India, Jamaica and Sri Lanka and quality assessments thereof. The
project team has carefully studied and suitably employed these lessons in designing and finalizing project
parameters. The project has also met with and taken note of the experience of various investment promotion
agencies in East Asia - the Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia and Korea. Some key experiences incorporated in
the design:
(a) In Sri Lanka, sub-project development and promotion initiatives were the subject of another project, rather
than become integrated as a part of the PSIDP. This has not proved successful due to lack of synergy
between the development and financing aspects of the PSIDP. The Bangladesh project has therefore, chosen
to provide for parallel development of both transaction facilitation and project financing, and provide support
for both.
(b) Efficient project implementation is often constrained by lack of adequate managerial capabilities in
government agencies. In this project, GOB's role in sub-project implementation will be limited to granting
required concessions and permits, as it will be the responsibility of private investors to finance and implement
these sub-projects. Lack of capacity in the appraisal and financing area would be addressed by IDCOL and
the provision of high quality IA services. Transaction development and facilitation will be aided by IIFC's
expertise. (This follows from the experience of the CCPAP-BOT Center in Philippines).
(c) Flow of private capital for infrastructure projects is constrained by country risk perceptions and lack of
project financing track record. The provision of Bank financing in the form of subordinated debt and its
presence as a stakeholder in the sector gives the necessary comfort for private developers and quality
commercial lenders to participate in project financing. The lending element of the project provides a degree of
"political risk insurance" to investors, even though it is not formally structured in that fashion.
(d) An efficient, fair, clean and transparent project procurement process, which encourages international
standards and competition is a must for sustained private infrastructure investments and project development.
This project will provide GOB and its agencies with the means to develop and implement such processes.
This approach will reduce transaction costs, build confidence, ensure clean and bankable deals and secure the
most economic terms for the country and its people. The example set by the Power Cell and the procurement
process for the power projects are good models to adopt in other sectors as well.
12. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
(a) GOB took the initiative to apply for this credit and has requested its speedy processing. All required
approvals and actions from GOB have been granted in time, and in some cases, ahead of time.



16
(b) To build consensus for this project and disseminate international experience, GOB took the lead and organized
a "Project Finance" workshop in Dhaka for relevant government agencies. Most of the donor agencies and
several international financial institutions also participated. A follow up round table was also organized by
GOB in September 1997. In these workshops, GOB has reached out to secure the private sector's
involvement in fashioning objectives and strategies.
(c) The Government has already incorporated IDCOL and established its office. This is a very strong indication
of commitment, as normally such institutional arrangements are established only after the project is formally
approved by the Bank.
(d) Concrete sub-projects identified and developed in the gas and power sectors, and at least one potential sub-
project for private participation identified or under development in other sub-sectors.
(e) Continuous high-level attention by GOB to project issues and decisions.
13. Value added of Bank support
(a) Transplanting relevant global and regional experience to Bangladesh.
(b) Creating a climate for investment interest in Bangladesh, which given the high risk perception associated with
the country, would have been very difficult without the Bank's presence. In the process, a large number of
high quality international firms have begun considering investment opportunities in Bangladesh.
(c) Building GOB's capacity to prepare and globally market large infrastructure projects.
(d) Bringing additional investment resources through an increased flow of private, non-guaranteed commercial
capital.
(e) Promoting private sector participation as a complimentary feature of the reformn program in the power and gas
sectors.
(f) Instrumental in promoting the BOO/BOT concept for transportation and port sectors and providing assistance
for framing suitable policies.
(g) Assisting GOB to build capacity and skills in the emerging area of international project finance and
facilitating the preparation and conduct of competitive solicitation processes.
(h) Promoting international standards on environmental and social risk mitigation in infrastructure projects.
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS
14. Economic Assessment
(a) Economic analysis for individual sub-projects has not been done, since these are not at a stage where sponsors
are identified and projects are formally awarded by GOB. The two initial transactions likely to be funded from
the PSIDP - the 360 MW Haripur and 450 MW Meghanaghat gas to power combined cycle projects - are least
cost economic choices. A Power Sector Master Plan study carried out by Acres International in August 1995
on behalf of GOB, has established that natural gas, combined cycle technology is economically the most
efficient and least cost option for Bangladesh. The report has further identified these two sub-projects as part



17
of the least cost expansion plan. The economic results are robust and economic rates of return are in excess of
12 percent under various sensitivity scenarios.7 More detailed economic analysis for each candidate sub-
project will be required to be submitted by the sponsors and would be reviewed by IDCOL during sub-project
appraisal to assure economic viability. Consistent with Bank practice in South Asia (and Bangladesh), the
minimum acceptable economic rate of return for a sub-project to be eligible for financing under PSIDP would
be 12 percent. Further, through regular monitoring and as part of periodic economic work, such as in relation
to the Public Expenditure Reviews (PER), economic viability of selected sub-projects and least cost solutions
in each sector would be ensured. (see para e. below)
(b) On a more general plane, since there are severe bottlenecks in infrastructure provision in Bangladesh, there is
little doubt that infrastructure sub-projects generally would have high economic rates of return (ERR). For
example in the power sector, due to the high economic cost imposed by power shortages, willingness to pay for
reliable power is estimated to be 4 times the tariff, nearly 16-20 US cents per Kwh. Furthermore, given the
comparatively higher efficiency of private thermal power plants vis-a-vis the public sector thermal plants of
BPDB, a project undertaken in the private sector is very likely to generate a higher rate of return than one in
the public sector. The average thermal plant factor of BPDB operated plants in 1996 was 55-60 percent, due
to forced outages. In the private sector, a much higher availability is expected, and in fact the Haripur IPP is
required to give a guarantee for 85 percent plant operation factor. Further, construction periods in public
sector generation projects are longer due to slower government procurement procedures and funding
constraints. This factor also adds to the comparatively higher rates of return of private sector plants. The
situation is similar in the other sectors and is in line with international experience that private sector
construction and operation of infrastructure assets is consistently more efficient and achieves higher rates of
return than assets owned and operated in the public sector.
(c) Compared to a typical public sector project, a PSIDP supported private sector infrastructure project
considerably limits the direct exposure of GOB. It would be less than 40 percent of the total cost, as against a
full 100 percent exposure in public sector projects. Furthermore, since equity is typically limited to 20-25
percent of capital cost in projects implemented on a limited recourse, BOO/BOT basis, they are highly
leveraged with debt to equity ratios of 4:1. This degree of leverage will lead to a larger complement of non-
guaranteed, commercial debt flows into Bangladesh. At US$225.million, the PSIDP is equivalent to about 7-8
percent of the ADP. If it leverages other resources on a 1:3 basis, it can succeed in attracting nearly US$675
million dollars in investment, which is 22-24 percent of the ADP. In terms of easing GOB's fiscal burden, it
will thus translate into an estimated annual support of 4-5 percent of ADP over the five year period of the
project.
(d) Thus in terms of macroeconomic impact, a successful PSIDP would bring some relief to GOB in resource
mobilization for infrastructure investment. Since over the five year life of the project, the total expected
inward investment is less than three percent of annual GDP, negative impacts, if any, on the balance of
payments would be minimal. Assuming that rapid improvement in infrastructure provision would generally
benefit the economy through higher productivity and increased exports, such small impacts appear
manageable. Additionally, there is a high probability that private sector investment would hasten potential
energy (gas) exports from Bangladesh, leading actually to a large positive impact on balance of payments.
7 Power System Master Plan - Bangladesh; Main Report, Volume 1. Acres International Limited, August
1995.



18
(e) IDCOL has the primary responsibility of ensuring that all private sector sponsored sub-projects considered
eligible to receive PSIDP funding satisfy economic efficiency criteria and are part of the least cost investment
strategy in the concerned sub-sector. The following additional safeguards shall apply:
(i) Assessment of PSIDP projects will feature regularly in Bank dialogue on specific sectors to check
consistency with the macroeconomic framework and sector strategy.
(ii) Sub-project acceptance cut off ERR would be strictly applied (minimum 12 percent), and would be
reflected in the operational manuals of IDCOL as part of economic eligibility criteria.
15. TechnicalAssessment
Technical quality of sub-projects accepted for financing by IDCOL will be ensured in two ways. Firstly, in
the sub-project preparation and contracting phase, GOB and the relevant project agencies, such as Ministry of
Energy would have access to technical assistance under the PSIDP to conduct feasibility studies, prepare and
implement sound solicitation processes and retain professional expertise to advise on negotiation and contract
documentation. Secondly, at IDCOL, the IASP retained to advise it would carry out appropriate due diligence, in
association with other international financiers, to ensure that technically sound design and proven
equipment/services are employed by project sponsors. To this end, IDCOL will require independent engineering
assessments and technical reviews before accepting the sub-project sponsor's proposals.
16.  Financial Structuring
(a) Lending Terms. On behalf of GOB, IDCOL will onlend the IDA credit to sub-borrowers in available foreign
currency, denominating the loan in equivalent US dollars on the date of disbursement. Loans will carry a
maximum maturity of 23 years, including a grace period of up to 8 years. Maturities and grace periods will be
determined on a case-by-case basis taking into account the nature of the sub-project. Interest during construction
would be capitalized and form part of the financing provided by IDCOL to sub-projects. Borrowers would be
offered a choice between variable and fixed-rate options at the time of negotiating the loan. The variable interest
rate would be set initially at 6 month US$ LIBOR+350 basis points. The fixed interest rate would be based
initially on the term of the loan, the appropriate swap rate between US$ floating and fixed interest rates and a
premium of 350 basis points.
(b) Rationale for terms. The long maturity and grace periods are considered necessary to match the longer life of
infrastructure assets and to provide for a uniform level of debt service during the concession period. However, the
23 year maturity and 8 year grace are ceilings, and actual terms would be determined on a case-by-case basis. For
example, the 23-year maturity would not apply for a 15-year BOT concession. Terms would be influenced by the
expected cash flow, construction period, and expected economic life of the assets of each sub-project. Maturity
and grace terms would be blended with those of commercial debt, including IFC and export credits, to arrive at
acceptable average maturities for the overall loan package. The interest rate of 350 basis points (bp) above
LIBOR is an initial rate based on prevailing market conditions. It has been determined by computing approximate
subordination and maturity premiums to an indicative rate of LIBOR + 200-250 bp, at which most commercial
lenders perceive loans of upto 7-10 years maturity to Bangladesh may be available. This is also consistent with the
interest rates on commercial loans to the KAFCO fertilizer project, which is the only instance of a limited-recourse
transaction in Bangladesh. It is not possible to precisely define the interest rate for long term loans of this nature in
Bangladesh as there is presently no market for this tenor of debt. Accordingly, the proposed rate of 350 bp above



19
LIBOR would be used as a starting point and would be reviewed annually as market conditions change and new
facts on market benchmarks surface. Given the fact that PSIDP terms for each sub-project would be offered
uniformly to all bidders to a sub-project, any implied subsidy through the interest rate or the maturity would be
passed on to the Government and the consumers through the competitively bid tariff or on the price per unit of
service negotiated on a cost plus basis. Since interest rates, as well as proposed maturities for specific sub-projects
should be sensitive to market signals, the proposed annual review of terms and conditions of IDCOL loans is of
critical importance and would be undertaken diligently. Also, based on initial project experience, the mid-term
review would consider downward revision of the 40 percent of project cost ceiling for IDCOL participation in sub-
projects. This would be consistent with the fact that PSIDP support should be phased out as capital markets
mature and investor confidence in Bangladesh grows with time.
(c) Foreign Exchange Risk. Foreign exchange risk implications arise primarily from the transactions occurring
between IDCOL and the sub-borrower. The sub-project revenue streams will most likely be in local currency,
whereas the debt service to IDCOL will be in US$ (taka-dollar equivalent). In typical project finance
transactions, the sub-borrower project company would be able to mitigate a part of the risk arising from this
situation through currency devaluation pass-throughs in the off-take agreements. It is expected that in the case of
this project, sub-borrowers would mitigate the exchange-rate risks, especially during construction, through hedging
and/or exchange rate insurance, and in the operating phase through appropriate pass-through provisions. Thus,
ultimately the exchange rate risk would be priced into the user charge or tariff of the output from the sub-project.
The GOB will typically carry the SDR-US$ risk. The large spread between lending rates to sub-borrowers and the
IDA lending rate and reserves in the Repayment Account would act as adequate insurance for this rather modest
risk.
(d) Fees. IDCOL's charges and fees have been determrined in line with standard practice in project finance. The
schedule is as follows:
(i) One time Application Fee of US$5,000 ( one time, non-refundable, payable in US$)
(ii) Project Examination Fee of 0.25 percent of the financial assistance - a portion payable at the time
of initial application.
(iii) All cost/fees and reasonable level of expenses for the Investment Advisor and consultants,
appointed by IDCOL for appraisal, due diligence and costs incurred in connection with travel and
visits in relation with negotiations, meetings, monitoring etc.
(iv) Documentation fee of 0.25 percent of the loan amount, payable at the time of execution of loan
documents.
(v) Commitment Charges at the rate of 0.75 percent per annum payable quarterly, and calculated on
unutilised amounts of the financial assistance effective 60 days from the date of Facility
Agreement.
(vi) Monitoring Fee of 0.25 percent per annum payable quarterly, on the financial assistance,
disbursed and outstanding.
(All co-financiers fees and charges as applicable, such as ECAs insurance premium, charged at cost)
(e) Interest Spread Income and its Deployment. Credits from IDA to GOB carry a service charge of 0.75 percent
per annum and a term of 40 years with ten years grace. However, proceeds from the Credit are to be loaned by
IDCOL at significantly higher rates, with maturities upto 23 years. The difference between the funding and on-
lending terms will result in cash surplus in the Repayment Account over time. Subject to certain assumptions,
such as full commitment of IDA loan in the first three years and disbursements by the end of five years, an initial
corpus of US$225 million would lead to accumulated interest and retained principal spreads of over US$ 100



20
million in year 10. This accumulated surplus in the Repayment Account would be available for future on-lending.
In addition to future lending, distributions from the spread income would cover: (i) repayments of IDA credit for
this project; (ii) operating expenses for IDCOL; and (iii) creation of reserves to cover losses to GOB arising out of
sub-project defaults or adverse SDR-US$ currency fluctuations. These distributions will be subject to IDA
concurrence during annual reviews.
17.  InstitutionalAssessment
IDCOL was incorporated on May 14, 1997 and has started functioning. It is presently reviewing the Agency
and Administration Agreement and the Investment Advisory Agreement, and has prepared the first edition of its
Operations Manual and Information Brochure. It has also commenced preliminary examination of potential sub-
projects. It is on course to meet the Project Effectiveness milestones of selecting a full time CEO and the firm or
consortium to provide IA services. The procurement process for these selections has been launched as per
schedule. IDCOL's role as a lender will continue only as long as the international capital markets are still unable to
meet Bangladesh's requirements for long term finance for infrastructure projects. During the projects
Implementation Completion Review, GOB and IDA will carry out an assessment of IDCOL, to determine whether
it should continue as is, or be merged with a private or public financial institution. The latter option would be
realistic, since financial sector reforms being undertaken through IDA projects are likely to create more
commercial and creditworthy institutions. In that case, a strong rationale would emerge for merging IDCOL with a
well performing financial institution as its project finance division. On the technical assistance side, basic
understandings have been reached on establishing the IIFC and government decisions are expected to be taken prior
to declaring the project effective.
18. Environmental and SocialAssessment
(a)  The project overall is judged to have moderate to high environmental and social risks. As a result, the
project has been rated "A" for environmental assessment purposes, and the Environmental and Social Framnework
(ESF) was prepared to provide a process within IDCOL to identify environmental and social issues upstream and
advise the private sponsor to take appropriate measures to meet GOB and IDA standards. The ESF has been
prepared by a leading Bangladesh NGO, has been subsequently discussed with other NGO representatives in
Bangladesh and has received IDA approval. The Executive Summary of the ESF was circulated to the IDA Board
on June 27, 1997 (Annex 5). The ESF lays down the policies and procedures that would be followed for sub-
projects to be financed under the credit and the process for environmental clearances that would need to be met for
each sub-project. An EA satisfactory to IDA would be required to enable the loan application from the sub-
borrower to IDCOL to proceed. Likewise, all sub-projects that entail acquisition of private property (legally
owned or customarily used) will be required to assess their impact on people living in the affected areas. This
impact assessment will be carried out as an integral part of the EA. When applicable, it would meet the
requirements for involuntary resettlement as set out in the Bank's Operational Directives (OD 4.30). The
provisions of the ESF have been incorporated in the business process of the IDCOL through its operational
manual. As discussed earlier, IDCOL capacity to carry out due diligence on environmental and social issues will
be ensured as a part of the IASP contract. IDCOL is accountable for sub-projects complying with the
environmental and social due diligence standards outlined in the ESF.



21
(b) While a potential pipeline of sub-projects exists, no project sponsors have yet been selected for any specific
sub-project.8 For the Haripur and Meghnaghat power projects, GOB will identify the sponsors based on the results
of the international competitive processes now underway. Short-listed bidders for these two projects are reputable
international firms familiar with Bank enviromnent and social standards. Furthermore, all bidders have consulted
in advance with the Bank and IDCOL regarding requirements on environmental and social aspects, and it is
reasonable to assume that they have factored costs for compliance in their bids. The sponsor, once selected, would
have a specified period of time to finalize project financing. If the sponsors wish to access IDCOL financing, they
will have to prepare an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESA) and mitigation plans, following the
terms and conditions laid down in the ESF. Satisfactory review and acceptance of this report by IDCOL and IDA
is mandatory and condition precedent for IDCOL financing to be made available.
19. Procurement Arrangements
(a) Under PSIDP, the preferred mode of procurement for awarding of sub-projects is international competitive
bidding, carried out as per World Bank procurement guidelines. For such solicited proposals, the investor or
project sponsor would be selected under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) or Limited International Bidding
(LIB) procedures acceptable to IDA under rule 3.13 (a) of the Procurement Guidelines. Sponsors selected in this
manner shall be free to procure the goods, works and services required for the facility from eligible IDA members,
using their own procedures.
(b) However, some projects, such as complex transportation systems and gas pipelines linking new gas find areas
are likely to be developed on an unsolicited basis. In the case of unsolicited proposals, when the sponsors are
determined not to have been selected on a competitive basis, the goods, works or services required for the sub-
project and to be financed by IDA shall be procured in accordance with ICB or LIB procedures in accordance with
the Bank's procurement procedures, subject to the exception referred to below in paras (iii) and (iv). Goods, works
and services financed from the proceeds of loans and mixed credits made by another multilateral agency or a
cofinancing government would be procured in accordance with the procurement rules and procedures of the
bilateral agency or the multilateral co-financiers.
(c) Under limited recourse financing, lenders generally insist that sub-project companies have access to standby
financing to meet any unanticipated financial obligations, and that it is available for deployment as needed rather
than being tied to specific procurement packages. Standbys are provided by the major equity holders and both
senior and subordinated lenders. They are drawn down on a paripassu basis irrespective of the cause of the cost
overrun. If the standby commitments of different lenders were earmarked for different project components, the"
law of averages" would not apply and the total amount of standbys would have to be increased to provide risk
protection and which would increase overall project financing costs. Furthermore, if cost overruns occurred and
IDCOL (and IDA) did not participate equally in the standby facilities, the conmmercial lenders would have to
finance a higher percentage of the project. They would increase the risk premium incorporated in their interest
rate, so the overall cost of the project would go up, and its viability would decrease.
8 The exception is the barge mounted plants where sponsors have been selected by GOB. However, no
formal involvement of IDCOL has transpired as yet since the sponsors are still exploring whether such
funding will be required. The financing initiative is being led by IFC, and if IDCOL/IDA do get involved,
it will only be after a full due diligence on environmental aspects is conducted and found satisfactory by
IDCOL and IDA.



22
(d) Consequently, the provision of standby facilities and the pan passu draw down of these facilities are essential
to ensure the overall economy of the project. Failure to do so would invariably lead to greater difficulties in
mobilizing the total financing and in incurring a higher cost of the sub-projects financed through IDCOL. The
standby financing provided by IDA would be disbursed against goods, works and related services. Some of these
funds might be disbursed against the same items that are covered under the sub-project's base financing and which
shall have been procured strictly under the Bank's procurement rules. However, because of the pooled nature of
the standbys, part of the standby financing might cover cost increases on items that have not been procured
following the Bank's guidelines. It is proposed that the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit be used for such
goods and works so long as certain safeguards are applied. These safeguards are that the disbursements be for
contracts that have been awarded: (a) in accordance with sound commercial practices; (b) with due attention to
economy and efficiency; and (c) in accordance with the Bank's eligibility requirements. In addition, such
disbursements would not be made against goods and services provided by a sub-project sponsor or shareholder. As
a general rule, the maximum percentage of IDA funds eligible for standbys for any sub-project would not exceed
20 percent.
(e) Proceeds from the proposed credit would also be used to finance insurance that is procured competitively off-
shore. This follows limited recourse project finance practices which place major emphasis on the identification,
allocation and mitigation of risks in a transparent manner. In order to ensure that the potential proceeds of any
claims would be available to the lenders and that the cover is adequate, the commercial banks typically insist that
the owner procures all the insurance for the construction phase (rather than relying on the insurance cover normally
obtained by contractors and suppliers). To obtain the lowest possible price, insurance financed under the proposed
credit would be procured through LIB from firms that have the highest rating.9
(f) Procurement by IDCOL and Line Agencies - Consultants would be selected in accordance with World Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Contract packages for equipment and materials costing less than
US$50,000 could be procured through local shopping with an aggregate of not more than US$250,000. Contracts
with consulting firms estimated to cost more than US$100,000 and contracts with individual consultants costing
more than US$50,000 would be subject to prior review.
Summary of Procurement Arrangements for IDA Component (US$M
(Indicative)
ICB        LIB      LCB        Other      Total
Indicative Project(s)   150         30        15        30         225
TA                       7                               3          10
Total                   157         30        15        33         235
9 Companies should have a Best's Insurance Reports rating of at least "A" or equivalent, have an Insurance Solvency International Limited
rating of at least "A" or equivalent, or receive the highest financial condition rating of any other independent insurer rating organization
that issues ratings on not less than five hundred (500) insurers.



23
20. Disbursements
(a) Prior to the disbursement of any IDA funds for a sub-project, IDA would review and approve the following
documents:
(i) the appraisal report prepared by IDCOL to ensure that the sub-project is technically sound, and
economically and financially viable;
(ii) procurement documentation to ensure that IDA's guidelines have been followed;
(iii) environmental and social assessment, and its applicability to the resettlement action plan; and
(iv) key documents in the security package with special emphasis given to the IDCOL sub-loan agreement.
(b) IDCOL would be the lender of last resort. Depending on the availability of other financing, IDCOL's
contribution would vary from case-to-case, but would not exceed a total of 40 percent of sub-project cost. Thus,
disbursement percentages would also vary, depending on the contract packaging of the sub-project and IDCOL's
share of the financing. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows:
(i) sub-projects competitively awarded after international solicitation:
*  100 percent of Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) or Turnkey contract payments,
determined on a case-by-case basis;
*  100 percent of foreign expenditures (c.i.f cost) and local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
ancillary equivalent and materials (not included in the EPC contract), determined on a case-by-case
basis; and
*  100 percent of interest during construction and other charges accrued on the amounts of the sub-
loans financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
(ii) eligible contracts on other sub-projects:
*  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures for works, determined on a
case-by-case basis;
*  100 percent of foreign expenditures (c.i.f cost) and local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
equipment and materials, determined on a case-by-case basis;
* 100 percent of foreign expenditures on off-shore insurance, determined on a case-by-case basis; and
* 100 percent of interest during construction and other charges accrued on the amnounts of the sub-
loans financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
(iii) technical assistance and institutional strengthening:
*  100 percent of expenditures on consultant services and training in the first three years and 70 percent
thereafter;
*  100 percent of foreign expenditure (c.i.f. costs) and local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
equipment and materials; and
*  70 percent of other items procured locally.
(c)  The disbursement of funds by the co-financiers would be in accordance with their respective guidelines.
Disbursement would be fully documented, except for expenditures under contracts for goods costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent procured for the use of consultants, for contracts with consulting firns estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 equivalent and contracts with individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$50,000.
Such disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures (SOE), the documentation for which would
not be submitted to IDA but retained by IDCOL for inspection by the supervision missions. The standard



24
procedures for auditing SOEs would apply. The initial deposit in the Special Accounts would be equivalent to four
months of expected expenditures or about US$400,000. The indicative disbursement schedule has been projected
to cover a six-year period. The estimated disbursement profile takes into consideration typical sub-projects and the
indicative composition of the portfolio to be financed from the proposed credit. The cut-off date for new loan
commitments financed under the credit from IDCOL would be June 30, 2002 and the closing date of the Credit
would be December 31, 2002.
Disbursement (Indicative)
(US$ millions)
Fiscal Year      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      Total
TA                  3         2        2         2         1        0        10
Project             7        58       78        48       24        10       225
otal               10        60       80        50        25 1a0            235
21. Sustainability
The sustainability of IDCOL would be ensured by establishing it as a strong, professionally managed and
financially independent institution. It will also receive adequate technical assistance in the formative years for
capacity building. The functional sustainability will be ensured through the Agency and Administration Agreement
between IIDCOL and GOB on the one hand, and the back-to-back Credit and Project Agreements between
IDA/GOB and IDA/IDCOL respectively. IDCOL's professionalism and commercial culture would be ensured
through the IASP, which will bring highly specialized project finance expertise to Bangladesh and IDCOL.
The sustainability of the IIFC would be ensured by providing technical assistance for capacity building and
enabling it to assist sub-project development work in the line agencies and ministries. IIFC's manager and staff
would receive adequate training inputs and enrich their expertise through coordinating programs with similar
institutions in Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, UK and Canada.
22. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1)
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                  Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measures
1. IDCOL's capacity to perform as per    moderate  (i) Appropriate agreements regarding commercial
commercial principles and deliver results          orientation and autonomy reached with GOB, (ii)
on a sustained basis.                              Substantial private sector representation on the
IDCOL Board, (iii) Quality international
professionals made available under the Investment
Advisory contract for managing IDCOL's activities.
2. GOB unable to overcome line ministry  low in energy  Line ministry officials ancd trade unions are averse to
and trade union resistance towards private  and    privatization of existing assets. However,
sector participation.                telecommuni-  opposition to creation of new assets (which is the



25
cation sectors, objective of the project) in the private sector is not
moderate in   evident. GOB's ability to carry out fundamental
other sectors.  reforms has an impact on the sustainability of
private participation. Hence, measures to
compliment sector reform efforts are built in and the
proposed IIFC will play an advocacy role.
Project components to outputs
1. Failure of first few transactions to  low to     (i) Sound structuring of sub-projects with rigorous
proceed quickly                       moderate      financial and technical analysis, exploring private
sector interest, international competitive bidding
processes and well conceived security arrangements.
(ii) Adequate resources for conducting the process
professionally, adopting best industry standards. (iii)
Incentives to the IASP for achieving faster financial
closure on deals and maintain effective
implementation monitoring.
2. Transactions delayed in implementation  low to   (i) Ownership of sub-project issues which are the
due to lack of support by line ministries    moderate  main cause for lack of support will be addressed in
and project agencies.                               the IIFC governance and decision making structure.
(ii) Project Development Units would be within line
ministries, but high profile IIFC leadership will help
overcome stress points.
Overall project risk rating
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measures
1. Macroeconomic risks - decline in   moderate      Project cannot address this, but can provide early
macroeconomic fundamentals, adversely                warning of possible adverse impacts from sub-
affecting investment attractiveness.                 projects to be financed under the PSIDP.
2. Decline in GOB commitment to private  low to      Varies by sector, is low in energy and
sector participation in infrastructure  moderate    telecommunication sectors and moderate in others.
development                                          However, the strength of the GOB commitment and
the fact that investment compulsions exist, reduce
this risk substantially. Additionally, the project
proposes to maintain a close linkage with the sector
reform dialogue and compliment the broader reform
agenda in each sector.
3. Environmental and Social Risks     low in        (i) Well defined roles and responsibilities, clear
telecoms,     guidelines and processes established and institutional
moderate in   capacity in IDCOL to implement compliance
gas/power    requirements.
generation,    (ii) Strong checks and balances through internal and
high in other   external monitoring provisions and IDA back-up and
projects.     supervision.



26
4. Slow down or lack of success in    moderate to    The Bank and other leading donors have a fairly
financial sector reforms, and/or capital  high      well developed agenda to address financial sector
markets fail to develop to the point where           deficiencies, especially capital markets development
private financing of infrastructure projects         and banking sector reforms. Hence, by the time
can be market-led.                                  PSIDP closes, Bangladesh is likely to have a credit
rating strong enough to let capital markets dictate
private resource mobilization. The PSIDP does not
directly address capital market development, but
would maintain a close linkage with such efforts to
ensure that it compliments the overall direction of
Bank and GOB efforts in the financial sector.
23. Possible Controversial Aspects
1. The extent of funding (maximum of 40 percent of sub-   Though providing 40 percent of sub-project cost as
project cost) from the project being too high.      loan may not be necessary for power generation
projects, it may be necessary for road and
environment type of projects, which have lower
revenue earning capacity in early years. The limit of
40 percent is thus a general ceiling . The limit for
each sub-project would be determined on a case by
case basis, with due regard to minimizing PSIDF
involvement and the fact that it is 'lending of last
resort'. This will also be ensured by providing
incentives to the IASP for leveraging other sources
of financing to sub-project transactions.
2. The project support, especially on financing from  Though chances of conflict on loan decisions are
IDCOL being sought for questionable or controversial  minimal, the sub-project finance process provides
transactions, where transparency of procurement is at issue. several points of interface between IDA and IDCOL
(Also includes the possibility of IDCOL and IDA difference  fairly early on in the appraisal stages, so that
of opinion on lending decisions)                    inappropriate or questionable transactions would be
precluded from proceeding further.
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
24. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) IDCOL to select IASP satisfactory to IDA.
(b) IDCOL to select full time Chief Executive Officer.
(c)  GOB and IDCOL to enter into the Agency and Administration Agreement, acceptable to IDA.
(d) Meet all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the co-financing agreements.
In addition, as is normally the case, GOB's legal opinion on the Credit, Project and Agency and
Administration Agreements would be required.



27
25. Key Implementation Covenants
Project Implementation Covenants
(a) Brochure: Government of Bangladesh will make available, through the IIFC, a brochure describing the policy
and procedures for private sector participation in selected subsectors of energy and infrastructure. Among other
things, the brochure will describe the contractual framework and institutional mechanism for implementing
privately sponsored infrastructure projects in Bangladesh. The Brochure will be suitably updated periodically to
reflect changes in policies, procedures and project opportunities.
(b) On IIFC: GOB will prepare and furnish to IDA for review and approval by February 1, 1998 a report on the
modalities of establishing the IIFC; including inter-alia, organization and staffing, terms of reference, and
business plan for the next three years. After IDA's approval (and of co-financiers as may apply), GOB shall
proceed to operationalize the IIFC by appointing key personnel, establishing its office and preparing detailed
proposals for engaging various technical advisory services.
(c) On IDCOL: IDCOL will prepare and submit for IDA's approval the Operations Manual, approved Agency
and Administration Agreement and Investment Advisory Agreement. The Operations Manual will be suitably
updated periodically to reflect changes and new guidelines and procedures. The IDCOL, through appropriate
provisions in the Operations Manual, shall ensure that its financial and accounting standards meet the
requirements of the World Bank and that periodic audits are conducted as per the provisions contained in the
Project Agreement. In terms of sub-projects, IDCOL will follow the process laid down in the Operations Manual
and the Project Agreement, especially the stages at which IDA approval or review is required.
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation: Continuous monitoring of Project Performance Indicators and preparation of the
mid-term review report by September 30, 1999.
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies'.
Task Manager:  . . Iyer                        Se#or Manager: Alastair  cKechnie



Annex I
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators           Monitonng and Supervision          Critical Assumptions and Risks
CAS Objective
1. Provide access to adequate and   Measures on access, coverage and    These measures are monitored on a   1. Assumptions: (i) GOB
efficient infrastructure services.  efficiency of basic infrastructure   regular basis and as a part of the  commitment to undertaking critical
services - power (such as HHs with    CAS Process. Project will utilize  sector reforms in the infrastructure
electricity, frequency of power     data from such periodic              sectors; (ii) macro-economic
outages, TEUs handled at port,      assessments.                         fuindamentals remain stable. thereby
number of telephones per 1000                                           providing comfort for large volume
population, bulk output of filtered                                      flows of foreign, private capital into
water etc.)                                                             the country.
2. Promote dynamic private sector    Private vs. public                  At present, in all sectors covered by   2. Risks: (i) Political instability and
participation in provision of       ownership/operation of               this project, basic infrastructure  resultant dilution of focus on                  co
infrastructure.                     infrastructure assets at the         assets are owned and operated by    reforming critical infrastructure
beginning and close of project.     the public sector. Project           sectors resulting in failure of
monitoring would keep track of      sufficient private sector interest in
introduction of private sector into  sectors from materializing; and (ii)
these areas. See Annex 2 for        political considerations forcc
measures.                           government to withdraw from
undertaking critical reforms.
3. Developing appropriate policies    Status of fundamental reforms by   Continuing Bank-GOB
and regulations for private sector  sectors and establishment of         interactions/dialogue on sectoral
participation.                      suitable policies and regulations.   reforms and project supervision.
M .
0



Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Supervision      Critical Assumptions and Risks
Project Development Obiectives                                                                       (Development Objectives to CAS
I. Enable flow of private investment  1. Incremental investment resources  1. Actual figures on investment of   Objective)
in the form of commercial equity    (defined as non-donor and non-  this nature to be collected and   1. Assumptions: (i) GOB continues
and debt financing for infrastructure  GOB guaranteed equity and debt    reviewed by Bank supervision  to be strongly committed to
projects.                         flows) realized for infrastructure  missions.                      expanding infrastructure provision
projects.                                                          and inviting private sector
investment in new infrastructure
2. Enhance GOB's capacity to      2. Number of project ideas        2. (i) Actual numbers of projects  projects; (ii) macro-economic
attract and realize private sector  identified developed and marketed    developed and marketed by sector to  fundamentals remain stable. thereby
interest and investment in        by sector; framework for private  be collected and reviewed by Bank    providing comfort for large volume
infrastructure projects.          participation by sector and feedback  supervision missions; (ii) Status of   flows of foreign, private capital into
from GOB agencies, development    policies and institutional/regulatory  the country.
partners and private sector on    arrangements would be reviewed
effectiveness of arrangements put in  jointly with GOB, development  2. Risks: (i) Political instability and
place by the project.             partners and the private sector   resultant dilution of focus on
through round-table discussions,  expanding infrastructure
and seminars.                    investments and private sector
participation; (ii) Sufficient level of
private sector interest in sectors
other than energy fails to
materialize; and (iii) first few
projects fail to take-off due to
country, sector or stake-holder
failures
(D (
0
Fh



Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Supervision      Critical Assumptions and Risks
Proiect Outputs                   For outputs I and 2               For outputs I through 4           (Outputs to Development
1. Private investment of at least  (i) Number and magnitude of                                       Objectives)
USS 400 million over the project  private sector BOO/BOT type of    Actual data to be collected by Bank
implementation period in creation    projects implemented and financed   supervision missions and reviewed   1. AssumDtions: (i) IDCOL is able
of new infrastructure assets in  through PSIDP. (ii) Amount and     jointly with GOB, development    to function in accordance with
Bangladesh.                       sources of private and non-       partners and the private sector   established commercial principles;
2. Private sector investment in and    government guaranteed investments  through round-table discussions,    (ii) IDCOL funding as detcrmined
operation of infrastructure assets -    realized. (iii) Number of loan  and seminars.                in the project, is sufficient to
at the very least- two power      applications received, processed and                               leverage other forms of financing.
generation plants, one each of    decided by the Infrastructure                                       (iii) Line ministries and agencies
telecommunication transportation    Development Company (IDCOL).                                      are willing participants in
and water supply projects. (total 5                                                                   promoting implementation of new
projects)                         For outputs 3 and 4                                                 projects by the private sector, and
3. Establishment of a project     (i) Timely establishment and                                        (iv) GOB/Bank/private sector are              o
development and facilitation agency  functioning of the Infrastructure                                jointly able to maintain
for GOB to promote private sector   Investment Facilitation Center                                    understandings reached on their
interest in infrastructure and    (IIFC) and other Project                                            respective roles.
strengthening of line ministries and   Development Units (PDUs) by
infrastructure agencies to deal with   sector. (ii) Policies for encouraging                          2. Risks: (i) Changes in the
private sector BOO/BOT type of    private sector participation (like the                              government prompt changes in the
project development process.      Private Power Policy document)                                      degree of IDCOL's autonomy and
4. Overall framework in each      issued by GOB ministries. (iii)                                     ability to deliver project outputs:
sector, in the form of policies and  Number of infrastructure projects                                and (ii) GOB is unable to overcomc
regulations, to promote public-  identified, developed and marketed                                   line ministry and trade union
private sector partnership in     by each line ministry/agency (iv)                                   resistance to private sector
infrastructure provision.         Number of participants trained in                                   participation in specific proiccts,
project finance and related                                         such as port operations.
transaction development areas. (iv)                                                                            D
promotion activities undertaken,                                                                            Q ss
such as roadshows, investment                                                                                  X
seminars etc.                        .___Lo
0



Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Supervision       Critical Assumptions and Risks
Project Outputs                   For outputs I and 2               For outDuts I through 4           (Outputs to Development
1. Private investment of at least  (i) Number and magnitude of                                        Objectives)
USS 400 million over the project  private sector BOO/BOT type of    Actual data to be collected by Bank
implementation period in creation    projects implemented and financed   supervision missions and reviewed   1. Assumptions: (i) IDCOL is able
of new infrastructure assets in  through PSIDP. (ii) Amount and     jointly with GOB, development     to function in accordance with
Bangladesh.                       sources of private and non-       partners and the private sector   established commercial principles;
2. Private sector investment in and   government guaranteed investments  through round-table discussions,  (ii) IDCOL funding as determined
operation of infrastructure assets -   realized. (iii) Number of loan  and seminars.                  in the project, is sufficient to
at the very least - two power     applications received, processed and                                leverage other forms of financing;
generation plants, one each of    decided by the Infrastructure                                       (iii) Line ministries and agencies
telecommunication transportation    Development Company (IDCOL).                                      are willing participants in
and water supply projects. (total 5                                                                   promoting implementation of new
projects)                         For outputs 3 and 4                                                 projects by the private sector, and
3. Establishment of a project     (i) Timely establishment and                                        (iv) GOB/Bank/private sector are
development and facilitation agency  functioning of the Infrastructure                                jointly able to maintain
for GOB to promote private sector   Investment Facilitation Center                                    understandings reached on their
interest in infrastructure and    (IIFC) and other Project                                            respective roles.
strengthening of line ministries and   Development Units (PDUs) by
infrastructure agencies to deal with   sector. (ii) Policies for encouraging                          2. Risks: (i) Changes in the
private sector BOO/BOT type of    private sector participation (like the                              government prompt changes in the
project development process.      Private Power Policy document)                                      degree of IDCOL's autonomy and
4. Overall framework in each      issued by GOB ministries. (iii)                                     ability to deliver project outputs;
sector, in the form of policies and  Number of infrastructure projects                                and (ii) GOB is unable to ovcrcomc
regulations, to promote public-  identified, developed and marketed                                   line ministry and trade union
private sector partnership in     by each line ministry/agency (iv)                                   resistance to private sector
infrastructure provision.         Number of participants trained in                                   participation in specific projects.
project finance and related                                         such as port operations.
transaction development areas. (iv)                                                                          (D(D
promotion activities undertaken,                                                                              4
such as roadshows, investment                                                                                 o
I seminars etc.                    __



32
Annex 2
BANGLADESH
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Enem
1. Generation capacity in private      0         700-800 MW under       700 MW operating
sector                                           construction
2. Gas pipelines in private sector     0         100 kms under          100 kms or more
construction           operating
Other sectors
3. Project identified and
developed for private sector
participation:
(i) identified and/or              2                    5                    10
feasibility stage;
(ii) under procurement             0                    2                     3
(iii) under implementation          0                   0                     2
Other outputs
4. General BOT/BOO framework           0         Completed              Under operation
in place
5. GOB approved standard               0         Completed              In use
security agreements for projects in
other sectors (non-energy)
6. Promotion/road shows by IIFC        0         At least 2             At least 5
for attracting infrastructure
investment
7. Non-GOB guaranteed debt             0         At least US$ 350 million  At least US$ 350
finance in infrastructure projects               committed               million realized and a
further US$ 250
million equivalent
committed
8. IDCOL financing                     0         At least US$ 200 million  US$ 225 million
committed              disbursed



33
Annex 3
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS MANUAL
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED (IDCOL)
The purpose of the manual is to establish guidelines for the administration of IDCOL, including
appraisal of investment projects, loan processing and monitoring by IDCOL.
The contents of the manual are as follows:-
Section I
General Guidelines
Section II
Terms and Conditions of Loan:
Section m
Environment and Social Compliance
Section IV
Procurement
Section V
Financial Management
Section VI
Application Form
Annexes
1. Environmental and Social Framework (ESF)
2. Investment Advisory Services Provider Agreement*
Note - This is a summary of the full Draft Operations Manual, a copy of which is available in the project documents.



34
Annex 3
Page 2 of 12
DEFINITIONS
"Association" means International Development Association (IDA)
"Agency and Administration Agreement " means the agreement between GOB and
IDCOL.
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which IDCOL proposes to make or has
made a loan
"Investment Project" means a specific development project in selected sub-sectors of the
infrastructure sector to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds
of a loan.
"LIBOR " means the London interbank offered Rate for six month deposit in United States dollars
"Operations Manual " means the operations manual of IDCOL which sets out the guidelines for
appraisal, approval and supervision of Investment Projects
" Project Agreement " means the agreement between IDA and IDCOL.
"Repayment Account" means a Taka account with Bangladesh Bank into which the principal
amount of loans and interest thereon received in Taka from Investment Enterprises will be
deposited and utilized in accordance with section 2.02 O of the DCA.
"Special Accounts" means US Dollar deposit accounts maintained with Bangladesh Bank for
deposits and payments in accordance with schedule 6 of the DCA.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA          Agency and Administration Agreement (between GOB and IDCOL)
DCA          Development Credit Agreement (between GOB and IDA)
ESF          Environmental and Social Framework
IAA          Investment Advisory Agreement
IASP         Investment Advisory Services Provider
IDA          International Development Association
IDCOL        Infrastructure Development Company Limited
IIFC         Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Centre
LIBOR        London InterBank Offered Rate
LOA          Letter of Award
PA           Project Agreement (between IDA and IDCOL)
PLA          Preliminary Letter of Acceptance
PSIDP        Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
RA           Resident Adviser of IASP
SP           Security Package



35
Annex 3
Page 3 of 12
Infrastructure Developnmet Conmpan Limited (IIDCOL!
1.    Objective - The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has established IDCOL as a wholly owned
public limited company to secure private sector participation (both local and foreign) in infrastructure
development activities. The Private Sector Infrastructure Development Fund ( PSIDF or the "Fund"),
has been established from resources extended to the GOB by the International Development Association
( IDA) of the World Bank and by other donors. IDCOL has been authorized by GOB to manage the
"Fund" in accordance with the objectives of and understandings reached with IDA under the Private
Sector Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP).
2.    Function - IDCOL seeks to mobilize private sector resources and management capabilities to
develop modern and efficient infrastructure services in Bangladesh. IDCOL will provide long term
subordinated loans to commercially viable infrastructure projects in the private sector in conjunction
with commercial sources of funds.
3.    Catalytic Role - In addition to their own equity contributions, sufficient to meet prescribed
minimum limits, Investment Enterprises and investors would resort to other financing sources, such as
commercial banks, for the remainder of the Investment Project cost. The participation in financing by
IDCOL is expected to act as a catalyst for attracting private debt financing in infrastructure projects.
This would result from the comfort available to banks and financial institutions from GOB (and
indirectly, World Bank) participation in the project. The PSIDP lending with longer grace periods and
maturities will enhance the internal financial rates of return of economically sound, but commercially
risky projects and improve debt service cover ratios and generally make market financing more
feasible.
4.    Institutional Capacity - In order for IDCOL to conduct its financing operations on commercial
basis an Investment Advisory Services Provider (IASP) has been engaged through an international
bidding process conforming with IDA procurement guidelines. The IASP will act on behalf of IDCOL
to process applications received from Investment Enterprises of infrastructure projects in Bangladesh,
conduct appraisal and due diligence on such proposals, provide appropriate analysis and
recommendations for making loan decisions and negotiate and finalize various documentation with
Investment Enterprises, co-financiers and other stakeholders. The IASP will also provide a Corporate
Consultant for advice to and review issues related to environment, land acquisition, resettlement and
other social issues arising in Investment Projects. The IASP will also be responsible for disbursement
of IDCOL funds and the supervision and monitoring of investment projects' implementation. In the
initial phase, the IASP will be responsible for defining and establishing various operational guidelines
for IDCOL and preparing the ground for its sustained good performance in financing private
infrastructure projects.
5.    Investrnent Policies and Eligibility Criteria - IDCOL lending would be administered on the
basis of the following policies and criteria.
a) Eligible Sectors - will provide long term subordinated debt financing to viable infrastructure
projects in the private sector for:-
* Power Generation and Transmission
*  Gas and gas related infrastructure
* Toll Roads



36
Annex 3
Page 4 of 12
*  Water Supply
*  Urban Environmental services (Waste Management and drainage)
*  Ports
*  Telecommunication
*  Other projects for the development of infrastructure as may be approved by the
authorities concerned ( GOB and IDA )
b) Eligible rjcts - IDCOL will finance new projects; extension, modernization and
replacement of existing assets, cost overruns and contingencies as approved in the respective
Investment Project profiles, subject to ceilings imposed by IDA requirements, consultant and
technical services, if procured as per respective guidelines, interest and other charges
accrued on IDCOL loans during construction period and insurance premia to the extent
allowed by financing obtained from IDCOL in the allocation of the Investment Projects cash
flows for debt servicing. It is expected that Investment Projects would be generally
structured Build -Own - Operate (BOO) or Build-Own-Transfer (BOT) basis or other
variations of such mechanisms.
c) Lending Principle - The fund resources will be subject to the rules and regulations of IDA
and other donors, as may be participating. IDCOL's intention is to provide, as a "last resort
lender", only as much financing as is required to meet the financing 'gap' after the full
complement of equity and debt from market and institutional sources are realized. Depending
on the availability of other financing , IDCOL's contribution would vary from case to case,
but would not exceed a total of 40 percent of Investment Project cost.
d) Procurement - To receive IDCOL support, investment projects must be competitively
procured under international, competitive bidding process by the concerned agency or
ministry of the Government. The procurement would be subject to IDA review for
compliance with World Bank procurement guidelines. Investment Projects received as
unsolicited proposals would be entertained only in cases where competitive selection is not
possible or is judged to be inappropriate.
e) Lending Limits - IDCOL's exposure in any single Investment Project shall not exceed 40% of
the total Investment Project cost ( to include all development and financial costs as
determined at the time of financial closing, when the entire financing package for the
Investment Project's implementation including its equity is fully and irrevocably commnitted).
Preference will , however, be given to Investment Projects requiring financial assistance to
a lesser degree of the Investment Project cost. Every attempt should be made to maximize
non-IDCOL, non GOB guaranteed debt financing in the package. Investment Enterprise's
equity investment shall not be less than 20% of the total Investment Project cost as
determined at the time of financial closing. The balance of the Investment Project cost will
require to be arranged by the Investrnent Enterprises through loans and other credits without
any GOB guarantees.
f) Eligibility Criteria - IDCOL will make fmancing decisions after the evaluation of each
proposed Investment Project has been carried out to establish the following:
* Priority: The investment is an integral part of GOB's priority plan for the relevant sub-sector and is
consistent with the policy framework and agreed sub-sector development plan with IDA. The



37
Annex 3
Page 5 of 12
technology proposed for a Investment Project should have a track record of demonstrated success in
countries at a similar level of technological development and infrastructure support, as in Bangladesh.
* Viability: Investment Enterprises should possess proven capability to develop, finance and operate the
infrastructure projects in countries at a similar level of development as Bangladesh. To ensure
commitment, sponsors' equity would need to represent at least 20 percent of the Investment Project
cost with the main sponsors holding a minimum of 40 percent of the equity for at least five years after
start up of commercial operations.
* Limited Recourse Financing: Private investors and lenders should not require sovereign guarantees
for financing. Lenders should rely on the security package, projected future cash flows from the
Investment Project and the value of the assets for comfort. The debt financing must include some
portion of non-recourse commercial senior debt as IDCOL will not cover more than 40 percent of the
total Investment Project cost.
*  Economic rate of Return: The economic rate of return should be at least 12 percent.
*  Equity: Equity to the extent of at least 20% of the total Investment Project cost must be provided by
the Investment Enterprise
*  Environmental and Social Assessment Criteria: Investment Projects should meet IDCOL's environmental
and social assessment criteria, backed by IDA's environmental and social review, as described in the
Environmental and Social Framework Document.
*  Procurement: Investment Projects should meet IDA's requirements of having been procured on an
international competitive bidding basis. Where an unsolicited project is to be entertained, IDCOL will secure
prior review from IDA as to why a competitive solicitation was not possible or is inappropriate in the case.
6.     Appraisal Process - As GOB is making very large sums of money available to assist private
sector sponsors to finance large infrastructure projects, it is important to ensure that the process is
conducted properly and efficiently. In addition to the Security Package outlined in Section II, the
following guidelines have been established:
a) The Investment Projects considered by IDCOL for financing would have already been
evaluated by the Government during the Investment project development process. Thus such
Investment Projects, when they come to IDCOL, would have received or be under
consideration for receiving Government approval for implementation. IDCOL will make a
determination on the Investment Project's suitability for financing, particularly the extent to
which it would be able to mobilize sufficient debt financing from market based sources.
IDCOL financing will be generally deployed as "last resort lending" in line with IDA's
principles.
b) The Board of IDCOL includes both public and private sector representatives, in order to
realize synergy from private sector entrepreneurship and commercial orientation, and public
sector experience and influence.
c) As international and domestic commercial lending institutions will be providing equal or
larger share of the total debt financing of the Investment Projects, it is expected that they
will carry out their own appraisal of the project proposal. Where it is appropriate, IDCOL
may jointly participate with one or more commercial lending institutions in the appraisal
process. In any case, each proposal will be subject to a thorough professional appraisal by the
IASP. All reconmmendations of the IASP will be independently evaluated by the IDCOL
Board before approval. Also, project proposals will be reviewed by IDA at different stages.
Detailed process is attached.



38
Annex 3
Page 6 of 12
7.    Fund Resources: Initially an amount of US $ 232 million will be made available by GOB
from IDA Credit. Of this, an amount of US $ 7 million has been earmarked for technical
assistance to IDCOL and the balance of US $ 225 million will be available for Investment
Project financing. Other multilateral and bilateral financing may be forthcoming to increase the
total availability of funds through EDCOL. Repayments of principal and interest from borrowers
will be available for further on-lending to the extent not immediately required for servicing by
GOB of debts of IDA and other co-fmanciers.
8.    Terms And Conditions of IDCOL Financing - IDCOL resources comprise initially
loans/grants from the donor agencies to the GOB that are on-lent by IDCOL for the
development of infrastructure projects. Commercial loans and/or export credits for the purpose
of implementation of the Investment Project shall have priority over the financing obtained from
EDCOL in the allocation of the Investment Projects funds/cash flows for debt servicing and/or
meeting obligations arising in the event of liquidation. Loans shall be made on terms whereby
IDCOL shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of IDCOL including the right to:
(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
fmancial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
loan shall be procured in accordance with provisions of the loan agreement and
ensure that such goods and services are used exclusively for the Investment
Project.
(c) inspect such goods and the Investment Project sites, works, plants and
construction, the operation of the Investment Project and any relevant records
and documents by IDCOL , its RA and its appointed agents.
(d) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice.
(e) obtain all such information as IDCOL shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operation and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and,
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with IDCOL.
The principal securities for a loan from the IDCOL to the Investment Enterprise in respect of the
proposed Investment Project could include, as appropriate, the following:
Part A
The Investment Projects would be undertaken on a build-own-operate(BOO) or on a
build-operate-transfer(BOT) model and are to be financed on a limited recourse basis in
order to promote private investment in Bangladesh. Under this arrangement, the
Investment Enterprises (or their contractors) will assume full completion and operational
risks, but the lenders will look primarily to the expected cash flow of the Investment



39
Annex 3
Page 7 of 12
Projects for security. The cash flow, in turn, is dependent upon the strength of the
agreements comprising the Security Package(SP). The parties of the Security Package are
the following;
i) Government of Bangladesh
ii) Investment Enterprises
iii) The concerned Government project agency
iv) Regulatory authority ,where applicable.
v) Supply Company (fuel if a Power project, bulk water if a water project etc.)
vi) Operator
vii) Lenders. Including IDCOL
viii) Contractors for goods and services, engineering, procurement and
construction (EPC)
ix) Trustees
x) Escrow Agents
xi) Insurers
General Security Package will consist of the following agreements and other documents
as relevant.
i) Implementation Agreement ( or concession agreement)
ii) Purchase Agreement for purchase of goods and services of the Investnent
Project
iii) Supply Agreement
iv) Construction Agreement
v) Operation and Maintenance Agreement
vi) Shareholders Agreement
vii) Escrow Agreement
viii) Land Agreement
ix) Trust Deed
x) Insurance
xi) Loan Agreement
xii) Inter - creditor Agreement
PART B
i) Mortgage on all immovable properties, existing and future;
ii) floating charges on all business undertakings and other assets and properties;
iii) hypothecation of all properties; including book debts and receivable;
iv) pledge of Investment Enterprise's shares(75 % of shares) in the Investment
Enterprise;
v) execution of escrow agreements and assignment of escrow accounts;
vi) assignment of revenue earnings of the Investment Project, and
vii) assignment of insurance policies.
9.    Terrs of the Loan - The loan agreement between IDCOL , and the Investment Enterprise for
the execution of the Investment Project and other terms and conditions as specified by the co-
financiers and/or the IDCOL. These may typically include:



40
Annex 3
Page 8 of 12
a) IDCOL and other lenders' approval to be obtained before any significant (to be
specified in the agreement) share holding in the Investment Enterprise changes
hands;
b) the terms and conditions contained in the agreements forming the security package
and other agreements entered into by the Investment Enterprise to be acceptable to
IDCOL;
c) IDCOL and other lenders' prior approval to any significant changes in the Operation
and Maintenance Agreement and/or other agreements forming the Security Package
for the Investment Project;
d) Provision of insurance satisfactory to IDCOL and other lenders and
e) The Investment Enterprises will employ consultants and advisors, with qualification
and experience satisfactory to IDCOL and IDA, for the Investment Project as
required.
10.   Interest Rate and Repayment Schedule - IDCOL will offer both Fixed and Floating Rate
of interest.
a) Floating Rate of interest will be US Dollar, LIBOR ( 6 month) plus a premium of 350
basis points.
b) Fixed rate of interest will be based on the term of the loan and the appropriate US
Dollar swap rate, between floating and fixed interest rates, plus a premium of 350
basis points.
c) Repayment period of up to 23 years, including grace period of maximum 8 years
d) Default rate will be 300 basis points over the rate mentioned in (a) above.
e) Repayment of principal and interest will be in semi annual installments and
calculated in the foreign currency in which the loan is given, but repayment by the
borrower will be made to IDCOL in Bangladesh Taka (BDT) equivalent amount
converted at the rate of exchange prevailing on the day of payment. This will result
in the borrower carrying the exchange risk.
11.   Fees and Charges - The basis of fees and charges shall be fixed for each loan and will
generally be consistent with standard project finance transactions conducted by commercial
banks.
12.   Disbursement Conditions - IDCOL will follow the normal industry practice for lenders to
disburse loans pari-pasu as per agreed disbursement schedule which should meet stagewise funding
requirements of the Investment Project and as provided under the Inter Creditor Agreement.
Disbursement of funds to the Investment Enterprise will not be effected unless:
a) the borrower has made firm and irrevocable commitments for meeting the balance of
foreign and local currency requirements of the Investment Project, the terms and
conditions of which are acceptable to IDCOL, IDA and the concerned co-financiers
b) the borrower has executed an Implementation or Concession Agreement with GOB
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDCOL, IDA and the concerned co-
financiers;
c) a Turnkey Contractor or Equipment Supply and Construction Contract, as the case
may be, Operation and Maintenance Agreement, and other agreement forming part
of the Security Package have been executed under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDCOL, IDA and the concerned co-financiers;



41
Annex 3
Page 9 of 12
d) the borrower has , in the case of a thermal power project executed a Fuel Supply
Agreement with a supplier under terms and conditions acceptable to IDCOL, IDA
and the concerned co-financiers;
e) the borrower has executed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) or any other form of
sales and services agreement under terms and conditions acceptable to IDCOL, IDA
and the concerned co-financiers.
f) the borrower has paid all the appropriate fees and charges.
g) carries insurance as per agreed terms and conditions.
13.   Environmental and Social Compliance - GOB has prepared an ESF, which has been adopted by
IDCOL, and has been ratified by IDA. It is based on three principles; (a) enhance the quality of life
and environment in and around project locations; (b) prevent adverse environmental and social impacts;
and (c) mitigate possible adverse environmental and social impacts. The ESF outlines policies and
procedures that IDCOL will be required to adopt and implement to ensure that Investment Projects
meet the environmental and social guidelines and standards prescribed in the ESF. The ESF
incorporates measures for environmental and social risk identification, assessment, allocation and
management during different stages of the project cycle as part of the Environmental and Social
Assessment Process. The provisions of the ESF require that IDCOL appoint a Corporate Consultant to
assist the IDCOL with the due diligence requirements of the ESF. The Corporate Consultant is
expected to be part of the services provided by the IASP. Each Investment Enterprise applying for a
loan will be required to furnish evidence satisfactory to IDCOL and IDA showing that an Investment
Project in respect of which an application has been made would comply with the standards set out in
the ESF, such evidence to include an environmental impact assessment and, where applicable, a
resettlement plan for displaced populations for such Investment Project based on principles and
procedures satisfactory to IDA.
14.   Financial Management - IDCOL shall maintain proper books of accounts, records and
documents as are required under the Companies Act, 1994 and as are necessary for an efficient,
transparent commercial organization. They shall be capable of disclosing a true and fair view of the
financial state of the institution. IDCOL shall establish procedures and records adequate to monitor
progress of each Investment Project and to enable compliance with sound accounting practices. In
order to monitor progress of Investment Projects and IDCOL's activities, quarterly Financial
Management Reports, including Sources and Application of Funds statement, Special Account and
Repayment Account information, Contract and other procurement information, Investment Project
progress information ( indicators inputs, outputs etc., with explanation of variances) shall be prepared
and submitted to IDA.
15.   Audit and Reporting - IDCOL shall, at each AGM appoint an auditor or auditors to hold
office from the conclusion of the meeting until the next AGM. The auditor(s) so appointed must be
member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Bangladesh holding practicing certificate and their
duties shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1994. Each year IDCOL shall
prepare a Balance Sheet and Income and Expenditure Account (Accounts) in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act, 1994 and along with the Auditor's Report and the Directors' Report
(Annual Report) thereon place before the Annual General Meeting (AGM) for approval by the
shareholders. A copy of the Annual Report and Accounts shall be sent to each and every shareholder
and a copy shall be filed with the Registrar. IDCOL shall furnish to IDA as soon as available but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each year, (a) audited and certified copies of its
financial statements, (b) the report of the auditors, and (c) such other information concerning



42
Annex 3
Page 10 of 12
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time
reasonably request. IDA or other co-financiers with prior consultation with IDCOL may appoint
auditors to carry out Compliance Audit to ensure that the terms, conditions and other requirements of
IDA and other Funding Agencies funding have been duly complied with. As IDCOL is a wholly
owned Government company , IDCOL may be subject to Commercial Audit by the office of the
Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) of Bangladesh.
16.   Budgeting - IDCOL shall prepare and submit to IDA by 31 May of each year a business
plan and budget for the succeeding year for approval by the IDA. The business plan should be
designed to ensure the continued achievement of IDCOL's objectives and afford IDA a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with IDCOL on the said plan. addition to its own
accounting books and records separate account shall be maintained by IDCOL in respect of the
'Repayment Account" maintained with Bangladesh Bank in accordance with the terms of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA ). These accounts will reflect all transactions relating to:-
Receipts:
a) funds, if any, received directly by GOB from IDA and other agencies
b) interest realized on loans to Infrastructure Development Projects
c) surplus arising from IDCOL operation account, if any
d) repayment of principal amount of loans advanced to Investment Projects
e) repayment of principal amount of Technical Assistance to IDCOL
f) miscellaneous receipts, if any.
Disbursements:
a) Loan drawdowns to Investment Projects
b) repayment of service charge to IDA and other Agencies
c) repayment of principal amount to IDA and other Agencies
d) payments to IDCOL to cover operational deficits, if any.



43
Annex 3
PageIIof12
Attachment to Annex 3
Application and Appraisal Process
The following process provides an overview of how Investment Project proposals will be handled
by IDCOL and interface points with IDA.
*  Identification of Investment Project by IDCOL, either on application by sponsor or through
intimation from GOB/Line Agency/IIFC/Power Cell etc.
* IDCOL will make a preliminary assessment of such interest in consultation with IDA, to
review consistency with both GOB's national priorities and relevant sub-sector policies. If they
are found to be so, the CEO of IDCOL will ask the RA to pursue the proposal with the
sponsors for obtaining more detailed information.
* If the RA finds that the proposal will meet or is in a position to meet technical, economic,
financial, procurement and environmental criteria of IDCOL and relevant national and IDA
standards, he/she will ask the Investment Enterprise to make an application in IDCOL's
prescribed form. RA shall also provide necessary advice to the Investment Enterprise on
various requirements, standards to be met etc.
- The Resident Advisor (RA) shall prepare a review report on the application and submit it to
both IDA and the IDCOL Board (through the CEO).
-  Based on RA's report and IDA's comments, IDCOL Board will take a go/no go decision.
* If it is a "go" decision, RA will complete proposal initiation formalities, such as conducting
preliminary examination of application, preparing appraisal terms of reference, get processing
fee deposited etc. Simultaneously, IDCOL will issue a Preliminary Letter of Acceptance (PLA)
to the Investment Enterprise including a draft Term Sheet and Loan Agreement.
*  The CEO will arrange for all the documents relating to Investment Projects to be placed
before the Board for the issue of necessary instructions to the RA to undertake the process of
formal appraisal and due diligence.
* For initiating the appraisal of the application, RA will require the Investment Enterprise to
submit, an Investment Project Information Document prepared in terms of the PLA, by
consultants satisfactory to IDCOL, IDA, co-financiers and GOB. The RA will also obtain any
relevant information from the concerned GOB agency and other government parties to the
project. The scope of the detailed Investment Project Information Document shall make
reference to each of the following - suitability of site; availability of inputs; appropriateness of,
and proven experience with, the technology offered; Investment Project design and its
technical viability; arrangements for detailed engineering; cost estimates; construction and
procurement arrangements; arrangements for operation and maintenance; arrangements for
compliance with environmental and resettlement standards; financial viability and repayment
capability of the project and the Investment Enterprise; proposed financial structure and its
terms and conditions, including the contractual arrangements to be made thereof; and the
corporate structure, managerial capability and creditworthiness of the sponsors of the
Investment Enterprise.
* RA will proceed to clear terms of reference with IDCOL Board, and if it is the first Investment
Project of its type in the sector, with IDA as well.
* Meanwhile the Investment Enterprise may proceed to sign necessary agreements with the
GOB/Line Agency and submit a copy to IDCOL. At the same time it will convey the
acceptance of the PLA and deposit the necessary fees.
* Based on approved TORs, RA will begin formal appraisal and may participate with other
lenders in conducting due diligence.



44
Annex 3
Page 12 of 12
*  Concurrently during the appraisal process, RA will keep IDA informed about progress, and in
particular seek IDA inputs on the extent to which the Investment Project proposals meet or are
likely to meet procurement, environmental and social impact/mitigation standards laid down
under the ESF.
*  Final appraisal report with recommended terms and conditions and security package to be
submitted by RA to IDA/co- financiers for clearance and review of the IDCOL Board.
*  The CEO after due scrutiny shall place the report and term sheets along with the
recommendations of the RA before the Board of IDCOL for its approval.
*  Following approvals and clearance by IDA and on IDCOL Board's approval, instructions will
be issued to the RA to commence financial negotiations with the financiers, Investment
Enterprises and IDCOL with a view to finalizing the loan terms and conditions.
*  RA will conclude final agreements and process for signing by IDCOL's CEO in time for
financial closure. Effectiveness of a loan from IDCOL to an Investment Enterprise will be
subject to all other financing, for the concerned Investment Project being irrevocably
committed and effective.
*  Final authorization of project commitments in US $ and equivalent SDRs to be notified to
IDA.
*  RA will prepare for IDCOL's approval a disbursement schedule, standby agreements and
request disbursement from IDA on a periodic basis as per agreed schedule.
*  RA shall monitor Investment Project progress as per agreed indicators and send periodic
reports to the IDCOL Board and IDA.



45 X
Annex 4
Page I of 6
Bangladesh - Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
Reform and Private Participation Status of Energy and Infrastructure Sectors
A. Sector wise status
1.    Power Sector: The key constraints in realizing efficiency objectives are inadequate
generation capacity, inefficiency of the transmission and distribution networks, inappropriate
pricing regimes, poor collections and inefficient management and the lack of effective
regulation. While some policies, such as the Private Power Policy and the National Energy
Policy have been formulated, the principal initiatives with regard to pricing reforms, efficiency
improvements, sector restructuring and creation of regulatory structures are being addressed
through a comprehensive reform program. GOB and donor agencies active in the energy sector
have reached broad consensus on a plan of action to implement the reform program. Though
some differences of opinion amongst stakeholders still exist, there is clearly a sense of urgency
and resolve in the Government's approach towards tackling fundamental issues in the sector. In
terms of instruments, the ADB's Ninth Power Project (recently approved by the ADB Board) and
IDA's Power Development Project (FY99) will be the leading vehicles for the reform program.
The PSIDP will provide the support for the private power program, both through financing for
individual transactions and as TA for establishing appropriate process parameters, sound
documentation and a culture of competitive bidding. The key issues in the sector from the
standpoint of the PSIDP are the characteristics of the transaction regime and the ability of GOB
to address the poor creditworthiness of the power purchasing utility - the Bangladesh Power
Development Board (BPDB).
2.    On the first issue, GOB announced the Private Power Policy in October 1996, providing
a package of incentives and defining the institutional and project approval process for
Independent Power Projects (IPPs). The implementation is vested with the Power Cell (PC)
established under the MEMR. Bids for two large projects, the Haripur (360 MW) and
Meghanaghat (450 MW) are close to being finalized and a third, Baghabahari (100 MW) is in the
price bidding stage. The PC, as well as the process for project.procurement is supported by TA
from the Bank and the ADB, and has been conducted in an open, clean and transparent fashion.
In all three projects, top international power development firms are bidding, and for the Haripur
and Meghanaghat projects, IDCOL has issued preliminary support letters based on a joint
IDCOL/World Bank assessment of the potential debt financing gap in these two projects. The
assessment took into account available sources of financing (IFC, ADB, bilaterals, commercial
lenders, ECAs etc.), their respective appetite for lending to projects in Bangladesh and the
Bank's concern for being the lender of last resort, before determining the support required at
between 20-25 percent of the total project cost. The sound institutional arrangements and the
competitive bidding process established in the sector have generated a very favorable response
from the private sector, and the competition has generated lowest possible tariffs and assures that
the transactions will be clean and transparent.
3.    On the second issue, there is a risk that BPDB will not be able to pay for the contracted
private power. Given the fact that they have high losses and a poor record of tariff collections,
there is a compelling urgency to rectify the situation. There are two mitigating factors; firstly,
private generation will enter the system in a phased manner over the next 4-5 years, providing
sufficient time to adjust and improve the tariff regime, Secondly, consensus on sector reforms
has been reached and tangible progress is anticipated over the next two years. Both the Bank and



46
Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
the ADB are accelerating proposed assistance to improve the transmission and distribution
systems and implement the reform program. Despite these
measures, the risk is real and needs be continuously monitored to provide early warning of
looming defaults. PSIDP supervision will appropriately take this into account.
4. Gas Sector: There are five production sharing contracts between Petrobangla and different
international oil/gas companies. In addition, nearly 30 international oil and gas companies have
bid for 23 gas exploration blocks in response to an ICB solicitation undertaken by Petrobangla
with Bank assistance. The bid process was preceded by promotion and information road shows
in Houston and London earlier this year. The main strategic issues in the gas sector are related to
industry restructuring, gas pricing policies for increased efficiency and uniformity, operation and
ownership of Petrobangla and its subsidiary operating companies and lack of proper regulation.
The Bank is assisting GOB to develop strategic options to address these issues under an ongoing
technical assistance initiative (Energy Issues and Options Studvy. The study will eventually
translate into a plan of action for sector reforms and restructuring. A Hydrocarbon Unit (HU),
similar in form and function to the Power Cell, is being established in the MEMR, with financial
assistance from Norway, to interface with private sector investors and act as a "One-window"
institution for privately sponsored gas projects.
5.    Transportation: In the ports sector, Bank executed TA is available for developing a new
container terminal in Chittagong, to be privately financed and operated on a BOT basis.
Preliminary feasibility studies have been completed and detailed feasibility studies are to be
launched shortly. However, the issue of location of the new terminal has not been resolved.
GOB had proposed a site outside the existing port, but the Bank has emphasized that
considerable economic savings can be realized by locating it in the existing port and transferring
operations of the port to private sector operators. This is a part of the larger dialogue on port
sector reforms and efficiency improvements initiated with GOB. The Government has indicated
that the poor performance of the existing Chittagong port provides a compelling reason to open
up the sector to private sector participation. However, the key issues are likely to be resistance
from workers' unions in the ports and GOB's willingness to free up the tariff regime for private
operators. These and other issues are being addressed under the Port Development Master Plan,
which is being formulated under IDA's TA-VI project.
6.    In the roads and highways sector, IDA is providing TA for the development of the Dhaka
bypass road sub-project. Linked to the development of the Jamuna bridge, this important road is
necessary to relieve severe traffic congestion in Dhaka. Initial feasibility has been completed
and the work can go onto the next stage once crucial decisions by GOB regarding the proposed
alignments can be finalized. It is also proposed to develop a suitable feasibility study for the
Jessore-Banapole transportation corridor. Meanwhile, the Bank is pursuing strategic reform
issues through the Dhaka Urban Transport Project. the Road Rehabilitation and Management
Projec and related ongoing and new transportation projects.
7.    Telecommunications Sector:  In the telecom  sector, TA to develop a new policv
framework is underway. An IDA project (Telecom Regulatory Support Project) aimed at
strengthening the regulatory framework and increasing private participation in the sector is also
under preparation and is expected to be finalized by end FY98. These two initiatives will lay the
foundation for the longer term sustainability of private operations already introduced into the



47
Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
sector last year through the deregulation of rural fixed wireless telephone systems and cellular
phone operations. A 300,000 line BOT project has been recommended for development as part
of the PSIDP framework and pre-feasibility studies are to be launched under TA from PSIDP,
once it becomes effective.
8.    Water and Urban Services Sector: A strategic framework is being developed for private
participation in the Water sector, and the Dhaka Water and Sanitation Authority (DWASA), is
exploring the development of a bulk water treatment and supply facility for Dhaka on a BOT
basis. PSIDP TA will be made available to develop these initiatives.
B. Relevant Bank and other donor operations
(a) Ongoing Bank Projects
Gas Infrastructure Development Project (GIDP), Credit 2020-BD - The project supports
expansion and improvement of gas infrastructure and operational systems. Besides investments
in construction of gas pipelines, it provides TA for improved supervision of pipeline operations,
consultancy for drilling and surface facilities, environmental and safety management practices
and reservoir management. DflD-UK cofinancing under the project will assist in the setting up a
SCADA system.
Power Development (1 6-towns! Project. Credit 2016-BD - Basically addresses the issue of loss
reduction and distribution quality, besides limited capital investments for the repair and
rehabilitation of old hydroelectric power plants and extension of the distribution system .
Rural Electrification 3 (RE 3)Pr_iect. Credit 2129-BD - The project supports REB in
establishment of five new rural electricity cooperatives (Palli Bidyut Samities, PBSs),
rationalization of distribution lines taken over from BPDB and DESA and limited transmission
and distribution network improvements.
(b) New Bank Projects
Dhaka Water Supply - IV Project - The project will expand the water supply system of Dhaka,
and includes the construction of a 50 MGD water treatment plant.
Preparation of a Port Master Plan under TA-VI - this is expected to be completed during the
second half of 1998, and will address all the key sector development issues.
Telecom Regulatora Support Project - will seek to establish technical and regulatory standards
for the sustained management of a multi-operator telecom sector in Bangladesh and help to
create a conducive framework for private sector participation.
Private Sector Support Project - is expected to improve, inter-alia, the legal framework for FDI
and the business laws in general. It will also strengthen public sector support institutions like the
Board of Investments (BOI), and the National Board of Revenue (NBR), which will have a
positive impact in improving the investment environment in Bangladesh in general, and for
implementation of private infrastructure projects in particular.
(c) Other Donor Projects
ADB's Third Natural Gas Project - Drilling of a number of wells at Titas and Habiganj Gas
Fields and construction of gas transmission and distribution pipelines,
KfW's Electrical Transmission Line project - Supports BPDB's construction of a transmission
line from Comila to Chittagong.
C. Sub-project pipeline (see next page)



PSIDP Sub-Projtct Pipelline
Sub project             Brief Description                          Status                   Probability and timing of IDCOL financing
1. Haripur     360 MW combined cycle, gas project,   Final price bids under evaluation.    High probability of IDCOL funding to the tune of
Power          BOO, 22 years, supply power to        Preliminary letter of award to successful   US$40-80 million, depending on whether IDA
Bangladesh Power Development Board    bidder likely to be issued shortly.  partial risk guarantee also becomes available.
(BPDB), gas supply from Petrobangla.  Sponsor has 10 months to develop project  IDCOL will have to commence due diligence with
ICB solicitation conducted by Power Cell  and reach financial closure      other potential lenders in November 1997,
with World Bank technical assistance.                                      commitment of funds may be as early as March
Expected total cost - US$ 250 million.                                      1998. IFC A and B loans and MIGA political risk
__ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _   I______________________  cover also  part of financing.
2. Meghanag-   450 MW combined cycle, gas project,   Final price bids under evaluation.    US$ 80 million IDCOL funding. IDCOL appraisal
hat Power      BOO, 22 years, supply power to        Preliminary letter of award to successful   and due diligence, along with other lenders to start  X
Bangladesh Power Development Board,   bidder likely to be issued by November   in December 1997, commitment of finds may be as
gas supply from Petrobangla. ICB      1997. Sponsor has 8 months to develop    early as March 1998. ADB A and B loans also part
solicitation conducted by BPDB with   proposal and reach financial closure  of financing.
ADB technical assistance.
Expected total cost - US$ 300 million.
3.             100 MW, dual fired (oil and gas) barge    Sponsor already selected through  IFC is likely to play lead role in arranging finance.
Khulna Barge   mounted power plant, in an area of    competitive bidding process (Consortium   Medium probability of IDCOL funds. Participation
Mounted        chronic power deficiency. 15 year     led by Wartsila NSD). Power purchase    from IDCOL likely to be limited to less than US$20
Power          concession.                           and Implementation agreements initialed   million, if sponsor (and IFC) unable to mobilize
Expected total cost - US$ 100 million.  - final negotiations in progress.  sufficient commercial debt.
4. Chittagong    100 MW, gas fired barge mounted power I Sponsor already selected through  T IFC is likely to play lead role in arranging fnanice.  t >
Barge          plant, in an area of high power demand.   competitive bidding process (Consortium   Medium probability of IDCOL funds. Participation
Mounted        15 year concession.                   led by Smith Cogeneration). Power     from IDCOL likely to be limited to less ithan IIJS$20  (D (D
Power          Expected total cost - US$ 100 million.  purchase and Implementation agreements  million, if sponsor (and IFC) unable to mobilize  X
initialed - final negotiations in progress.   sufficient commercial debt.
Note: Both barge mounted power plants are on a very tight time schedule - sponsors are required to deliver power within the next 12 mnonths. IDCOL  H
financing would certainlyfacilitate meeting this time schedule.



Sub project             Brief Description                          Status                   Probability and timing of IDCOL financing
5. Baghabari    100 MW, gas fired power plant, located    Prequalification of sponsors through an    Medium to high probability that IDCOl, support to
Power          on the western side of the Jamuna river.   ICB process is complete. Final price bids  the project will be needed. Approximate level of
Expected total cost - US$ 100 million.    from short listed bidders due by  funding in the range of US$ 20 million.
November 16, 1997. ICB conducted by    Appraisal and due diligence to start January 1998.
Power Cell, under World Bank technical
assistance.
6.             Three parts - development of the      Negotiations between GOB and Unocal    Unocal has sought IDCOL assistance for financinig
Western Area   Shabazpur gas field, 140 km long      are ongoing to finalize project      the pipeline. Medium probability that the project
Integrated     pipeline to Khulna and 200-300 MW gas   parameters, especially pipeline tariff for   would meet qualifying criteria for funding.
Energy Project  fired power plant at Khulna. Unsolicited   wheeling gas.                   Preliminary due diligence to commence soon, arid if
project proposed by Unocal Corporation.                                     found feasible, detailed appraisal will start January
Unocal has already signed the Production                                    1998.
Sharing Contract with Petrobangla to
develop the Shahbazpur gas field. In the
first phase, the pipeline is being
developed as a BOT project, whereby
Petrobangla will ship gas through and pay
a wheeling charge to Unocal.
Expected total cost - US$ 800 million.
Basic telecom project for Dhaka and   Concept approved and World Bank       High probability that IDCOL support will be
300,000 line    surrounding areas.                   appointed consultant to start work in  needed. PSIDP TA will be required to develop
Telecom BOT   Expected total cost - not estimated.   November 1997 to design and structure    proposal fully.
Project                                              the project on BOT basis for ICB.     __b
4 DJ
8.             50 million gallons a day bulk water   Preliminary feasibility and structuring  High probability that IDCOL support will be       D (D
Dhaka Bulk    supply facility to supply treated water to   work to begin January 1998 under a  needed. PSIDP TA will be required to develop    (X
Water Supply  the Dhaka Water Supply Authority.      World Bank assisted TA program.       proposal fully.                                     o
Project        Expected total cost - not estimated.                                                                                             h



Sub project             Brief Description                          Status                   Probability and timing of IDCOL financing
9. Container    New facility to add 250,000 TEU      Preliminary feasibility and structuring  Though high probability that IDCOL support will
Terminal,      container handling capacity. Proposal is   work can begin only after fundamental    be needed, development is likely to take 2-3 years.
Chittagong     delayed due to non-resolution of siting  sector issues are resolved.        assuming that sector issues are resolved. PSII)P TA
issues and privatization of existing port                                  will be required t develop proposal fully.
operations in Chittagong.
Expected total cost - not estimated.
10. Dhaka      40 km long tolled bypass for diverting  As per the pre-feasibility study, traffic  Uncertain and low probability. Basic structuring
Bypass Road    heavy, commercial traffic outside Dhaka   volumes are not sufficient to sustain a  issues not resolved. Development lead time is
Project        city limits. A Bank supported pre-    purely private sector ownership and   likely to exceed 3 years, unless GOB moves quickly      o
feasibility report has proposed two   operation. Would have to be structured    to make decisions and resolve fundamental issues.
alternative alignments. GOB decision on   on a partnership basis and may require
alignment and other issues pending.   substantial government support.
Expected total cost - depends on
alignment, US$ 200-300 million.
(D (D
x
0
ah



51
Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
Annex 5
Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
SecM97-559
FROM: Vice President and Secretary
BANGLADESH
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental and Social Framework Summary
1.    Attached is the executive summary of the Environment and Social Frameworrk (ESF) for
the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project. The proposed project comprises financing
to develop a modem and efficient infrastructure system in Bangladesh, with significant
participation of the private sector in the financing, construction and operation of infrastructure
facilities.
2.    The ESF was prepared by the Borrower, and circulation of the summary does not signify
evaluation or endorsement by the Bank. The ESF is subject to review and possible change during
the appraisal process.
3.    Questions may be referred to Mr. Vijay Iyer (ext. 84441). The full Environment and
Social Framework is available from the Public Information Center.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President's Executive Committee
Senior Management, Bank, IFC and MIGA



52
Annex 5
Pag,e 2 of 6
EXECUTIVE SUMMIARY
1.   Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL), Bangladesh, has been established
by the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) as a Company under the Companies Act to facilitate
private investment in infrastructure development. Using credit made available to the Government
of Bangladesh by the Intemational Development Agency (IDA), IDCOL will provide part
financial support to private investors in the power, gas, telecommunications, port, water, waste
management and the highway sector. Private project sponsors are expected to raise at least 60
percent of the required financing in the form of equity and commercial debt.
2.    The Environmental and Social Framework (ESF) has been designed by GOB to provide
IDCOL with an overall framework to guide the identification, preparation, appraisal and
implementation of environmental and social concerns at the project and at the organizational level.
The ESF reflects the environmental and social guidelines and standards of IDA, since such
guidelines and standards for infrastructure projects in Bangladesh are yet to be developed,
3.    The ESF was prepared, on behalf of the GOB, by the Bangladesh Centre for Advanced
Studies, a leading non-governmental organization active in environmental and social issues. The
report was prepared with desk research on legal and institutional framework, analysis of priority
issues in the infrastructure sector, requirements of the operational directives of the World Bank
Group, and best practice lessons from countries such as India and Sri Lanka. There have been
discussions with NGOs and other interested parties during the preparation of this report.
Environmental and Social Policy of IDCOL
4.    The environmental and social policy of IDCOL is enshrined in three cardinal principles:
(a)   Enhance the quality of life and environment in and around project locations;
(b)   Prevent adverse environmental and social impacts; and
(c)   Mitigate possible adverse environmental and social impacts.
Environmental and Social Assessment Process
5.    The Environmental and Social Assessment for IDCOL has been designed taking the
following factors into consideration:
(a)   The legal and institutional setting, and the requirements of the Govemment of
Bangladesh agencies;
(b)   Major environmental and social issues that could be expected in projects to be
financed by IDCOL;



53
Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
(c)    IDCOL's project cycle;
(d)    Requirements of the World Bank's Operational Directives:
(i)     OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment;
(ii)     OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement; and
(iii)    OD 4.20 on Indigenous People
The Environmental and Social Assessment Process is outlined in Table 1. These procedures will
dovetail with the project cycle of EDCOL. Once the details of the IDCOL project cycle have been
fully developed, the Environmental and Social Assessment Process will need more definition. The
ESF should be viewed as a dynamic document that should be periodically reviewed to ensure that
it reflects changes in business practices of IDCOL and the external environment.
Table 1
Summary of the Environmental and Social Assessment Process for I})COL
IDCOL Pro ject Cvcle               Responsibility                      Decision/Product
EnvironmentaltSocial Screening  IDCOLUProject Sponsor           *   Environmental screening and social
screening as part of Project Initial
Screening Report
*   Decision to proceed or otherwise
Environmental                    Project Sponsor/ Consultant    *   Scope of Coverage of Environmnental and
/Social Scoping                                                     Social Assessment Report (ESR)
Finalization of Terms of Reference   Project                    *   Terms of Reference for appointment of
for ESR studies                 Sponsor/Consultant/Concurrence      consultant
with IDA
Appointment of consultants       Project Sponsor                Consultants Appointed for ESR studies
ESR Study                        Project Sponsor through        Draft Environmental and Social Assessment
Consultant                     Report , including
- Environmental Management Plan
- Resettlement Action Plan
- Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
Review OF ESR                    IDCOLIIDA/GOB/                 *   clearance by Government agencies
Project Sponsor                *   Concurrence by IDA
*   Agreement on ESR actions
Translation of Agreements into   Project Sponsor/IDCOL/         *   Concession Agreement
legal Instruments                GOB                            *   Shareholders Agreement
* Construction Agreement
* O&M Agreement
* Lenders Agreement
Project Monitoring              IDCOL, Proiect Sponsor          Periodic Monitoring Reports
Periodic Environmental and Social  IDCOL/Consultant             Environment and Social Audit Report
Audit                           .



54
Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
6.      A social impact and entitlement framework- for IDCOL-financed projects is outlined in
Table 2.
Table 2
Social Impact and Entitlement Framework for IDCOL-financed Projects.
Type of Issue/Impact       Entitlement                   Entitlement Options                  Responsibility
Beneficiaryv
l Loss of Land                                                                                    Govt./Project
(a) Homestead                (i) Titleholder  (i) equiv. area of land or cash comp. at replacement  Sponsor
(i) with valid title, or                     cost CCL (amended to include a 50% premium) +
customary or usufruct                      cash grant to cover the difference between the CCL
rights                                     and the cost of equivalent replacement land subject
to a minimum of 100 sq.m.
(ii) squatters (Uthulis)   (ii) Family    (ii) developed plot as per Govt. norms
on public/private land
(b) Agricultural land
(i) with valid title, or  (i) Titleholder  (i) alternate land of equiv. prod potential or cash
customary or usufruct                     payrment at replacement. CCL( amended to include
rights                                    a 50% premium) + a cash grant to cover the
difference between the CCL and the cost of
equivalent replacement land.
(ii) tenants,              (ii) Individual  (ii) local std. for minimum economic land holding or
sharecropper, leasehold,                  cash payment for min. economic, landholding
encroaches
(c) Commercial!
Industrial/Institutional
(i) with valid title ,or  (i) Titleholder  (i) equiv. land or cash at replacement value. CCL
customary or usufruct                     (amended to include a 50% premium + a cash grant
rights                                   to cover the difference between the compensation
and replacement cost.
(ii) tenant, leaseholder  (ii) Unit      (ii) equiv. leased land, reimbursement for unexpired
lease, transition allow. equiv. to 3 month
(iii) squatter            (iii) Unit     (iii) equiv. land and transition allowance equiv. to 3
months
2. Loss of Structure                                                                               Govt./ Project
(a) House                                                                                       Sponsor
(i) with valid title, or   (i) Family     (i) structure of equiv. standard or cash comp. at
customary or usufruct                      replacement value. CCL (amended to include a 50%
rights                                     premium); a transfer and house construction grant
of Tk. 7,000.
(ii) tenant, leaseholder    (ii) Family    (ii) transition allow. to re-establish residence
(iii) squatter, pavement    (iii) Family    (iii) basic dwelling unit as per govt. norms or cash
dwellers                                    payment for basic dwelling unit
(b) Commercial/Industrial!
Institutional
(i) with valid title, or   (i) Unit       (i) structure of equiv. std or cash comp. at replacement
customarv or usufruct                      value; CCL (amnended to include a 50% premium); a
rights                                     cash grant of 15% of the compensation towards
dismantling and removal costs; an additional
reconstruction grant of Tk. 25 per sq. ft. of floor
area of the building.
(ii) tenant, leaseholder    (ii) Unit      (ii) reasonable transition allowance equiv. to 3 months



55                                             Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
Type of Issue/limpact       Entitlement                   Entitlement Options                 I Responsibility
Bencficiarn  I_l
(iii) squatters, pavement    (III) unIt     (ii) basic unit as per zoI. norms o cash p3'1C11 for
dwellers                                     basic unit
3. Loss of livelihood/trade/                                                                        Project Spc-sor
occupation
a. Wage employment
(i) azriculture/            (i) Individual   (i) emploNment in reconstructed enterprise or package
commercialU                                for re-employment or starting a business and
industrial/institutional                    transition allow equiv. to 3 months
4. Loss of access to common                                                                         Govt./Project
resources and facilities                                                                          Sponsor
a. Rural common property     HHI            (a) replacement CPRs/arnenities or providing min.
resource                   community         govt. std
b. Urban civic amenities     EH/!           (b) access to equiv. amenities/services
communitv                           _
5. Loss of crops
(a) Standing Crops                                                                               Project Sponsor
(i) vith valid title      Family         (i,ii,iii) cash compensation equiv. to one year income
(ii) Tenant/Lessee        Family         (CCL)
(iii) Encroachers/squatters  Family
(b) Perennial Crops
(i) with valid title      Family         (i, ii, iii) cash compensation equiv. to residual income
(ii) Tenant/Lessee        Family         (CCL amended to include 50% premium)
(iii) Encroachers/squatters  Familv
6. Losses during transition of                                                                      Govtn.Project
de placed                                                                                         Sponsor
persons/establishments
(a) Shifting/Transport        Family/Unit   (a) provision of transport or cash equiv.
(b) Maintenance               Family/Unit   (b) cash payment for 3 months
(c) Construction             Family/Unit   (c) cash payment for materials and labor or provision of
materials (reconstruction grant of Taka 25 per sq.ft
of floor area)
7. Losses to Host
communities
(a) Amenities/Services        Community      Restore losses/improve facilities, reconstruction grant    Govt./Project
of Tk-. 25 per sq. ft for the floor area as a result of  Sponsor
resettlement or amenities/services equiv. to those
provided to PAPs
7.      The ESF framework incorporates measures for environmental and social risk
identification, assessment, allocation and management during different stages of the project cycle
as part of the Environmental and Social Assessment Process.
IDCOL - IDA Interface
8.      In order to ensure that IDCOL's infrastructure projects are in conformity with IDA's OD
requirements and business practices, it shall submit the following documents for IDA review.
Table 3 outlines the institutional interface matrix. IDA concurrence to the outputs generated at
each stage will be obtained prior to proceeding to the next stage.



56
Annex 5
Pa2e 6 of 6
Table 3
IDCOL-IDA Interface
Environmental and Social Assessment         Output to be submitted to IDA
Milestone
Screening                              Initial screening report
Finalization of terms of reference for ESR   Terms of Reference
Review of ESR -                        ESR reviewed by IDCOL
Translation of agreements into instruments Lenders Agreement along with other
_ Agreements
Monitoring                             Compliance report
Environmental and Social Audit         Audit compliance report
Organizational Support
9.    IDCOL shall establish an institutional structure capable of implementing the provisions of
the ESF. IDCOL shall:
(a)   Integrate the Environmental and Social Assessment process with the IDCOL
project cycle;
(b)   Ensure that the Investment Advisor's Unit, established in IDCOL, has the
capability to undertake the tasks outlined in the ESF; and
(c)    Appoint consultants, as necessary, to undertake special assignments with respect
to environmental and social issues.
10.   In order to facilitate the conduct of these tasks:
(a)   IDCOL's Investment Advisor will be the operational manager with overall
responsibility for implementing the provisions of this ESF;
(b)   IDCOL will initially engage consultants for implementing the different stages of
the Environmental and Social Assessment process -- for the purpose of reviewing
the ESR, IDCOL will retain a corporate consultant to advise on environmental and
social issues; and
(c)   Increase awareness among all departments /staff of IDCOL regarding the
importance of addressing environmental and social issues through integration with
the project cycle.



57
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of June 30, 1997)
Difference
between
Original amount in USS millions              expected
Project       Loan or  Fiscal                                                                                        and actual
ID        Credit No. Year   Borrower               Purpose              IBRD      IDA  Cancellations Undisbursed  disbursements'
Number of Closed
Loans/Credits:     158
Active Loans
BD-PE-9553      C25674   1997 GOB            JUTE SECTOR ADJ CREDIT                    2.90                     2.79            0.00
BD-PE-9518      C29270   1997 GOB            2ND RURAL RDS & MRKT                    133.00                   120.84            1.78
BD-PE-9482      C29260   1997 GOB/DWASA DHAKA WATER/SAN. TV                           80.30                     71.1            0.09
BD-PE-40985    C29220   1997 GOB             POVERTY ALLEVIATION                     105.00                    92.01           2.12
BD-PE-9560      C28220   1996 GOB            NON-FOR.MAL EDUCATION                    10.50                     9.17           0.49
BD-PE-9484      C28150   1996 GOB            AG. RES. MANAGEMENT                     50.00                     44.20           15.06
BD-PE-9545      C27910   1996 GOB            RIVERBANK PROTECTIO                     121.90                    76.42          33.30
BD-PE-9549      C27830   1996 GOB            COASTAL EMBANKMENT R                     53.00                    3926            19.95
BD-PE-9496      C27350   1995 GOB            NUTRMITON                               59.80                     54.3i           5.26
BD-PE-9533      C27200   1995 GOB            GAS INFRASTRUCTURE                      120.80                    84.23          26.92
BD-PE-9465      C26380   1994 GOB            2ND ROAD REHAB & NAI                    146.80                    46.88          -25.65
BD-PE-9509      C25690   1994 GOB            JAMUNA BRIDGE                          200.00                     46.19            8.S2
BD-PE-9555      C24690   1993 GOB            FENIALE SECONDARY SCH                    68.00                    44.66            6.13
BD-PE-9470      C23970   1992 GOB            FOREST RESOURCES MGM                     49.60                    24.23           10.05
BD-PE-9559      C23930   1992 GOB            TECIHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    25.00                      9.90           3.68
BD-PE-9454      C23400   1992 GOB            PRIVATE SEC IND'L CR                     25.50                     15.42          15.07
BD-PE-9529      C22590   1991 GOB             POP. & HEALTH IV                       180.00                     45.16          35.18
BD-PE-9544      C22460   1991 GOB            NATL MINOR IRRIGATI                      54.00        50.87         0.98          50.38
BD-PE-9516      C22330   1991 GOB            AGRIC.SUPPORTSERVI                       35.00                    1I.52           17.15
BD-PE-9540      C22320   1991 GOB            INLAND WATER TRANSP                      45.00                    32.83           23.12
BD-PE-9542      C21290   1990 GOB            RURAL ELECTRIF. III                     105.00                     26.24          14.62
BD-PE-9461      C20990   1990 GOB            BWDB SYSTEM REHAB.                       53.90        29.86         7.24          33.63
BD-PE-9506      C20160   1989 GOB            POWER DIST. (16 TOWN)                    S7.00                     20.75          16.21
BD-PE-9467      C 19300   1988 GOB           URB.AN DEV. 1                            47.60         16.95        8.73          25.07
TOTAL                                                                       0.00  1859.60        97.68       942.06         338.93
Active Loans                Closed Loans             Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)            811.51                     4912.28           5723.79
Of which repaid                           0.00                      300.52            300.52
Total now held by IBRD and IDA           1761.92                     4567.35           6329.27
Amount sold                                 0.00                         0.37             0.37
Ot'which repaid                           0.00                         0.37             0.37
Total undisbursed                         942.05                       204.99          1147.04
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.



5 8                           Annex  6
Page 2 of 2
Bangladesh - Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of June 30, 1997
(In USS Millions)
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FYApproval Compaorr                     Loan  Equitv  Quasi  Parric       Loan  Equity   Ouasi  Partic
1980        IPDC                         0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00
1983/85      Bata Shoe BD                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1985/95      IDLC                        0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00
1991         Dvnamic Textile             2.18    0.00    0.00    1.75      2.18    0.00    0.00    1.75
Total Portfolio:            2.18    1.20    0.00    1.75      2.18    1.20    0.00    1.75
Approvals Pending Commitnent
Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996        ICT-B                       15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1996        ICT-W             -0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00
1997         BLCL                        3.50    0.45    0.00    3.50
1997         DBEH                        2.50    0.69    0.00    0.00
1997         JALALABAD                   0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1997         SCANCEMI                   11.00    1.25    0.00    0.00
1997         WATERGARDEN                 6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:  38.00   17.77    0.00   13.50



5 9                                                Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Bangladesh at a glance                                                                8115197
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             SoUth    Low-
Bangladesh -      A- i   income     Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (nmions)                          121.6     1,264    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              260        380      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billons US$)                                 31.6      481    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (96)                                         1.6:      1.9      1.7      GNP                              Gross
Labor force (96)                                        2.1       2.1      1.7                                     prmary
per                            pmr
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populafton)              48
Urban population (% oftotalpopulaton) -                 18        26        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        58        61        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lve birts)                  77         75       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrilion (X of children under 5)              67
Access to safe water (%  f population)                  96         63       53
Illiteracy (6 ofpopuation age 15+)                      62        50        34                Bangbdesh
Gross primary enrollment(% of school-age populatfon)    92         98      105
Male                                                  98        110      112                Low-income group
Female                                                86        87        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1998     1996
Economic ratios
GDP (billions US$)                            14.3     15.7      29.1     32.1
Gross domestic investmenttGDP                 6.1      12.9      16.6     17.0              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP             2.9       7.4      14.2     14.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     0.9      2.0       8.3      7.1
Gross national savings/GDP                    4.9       9.6      13.1     11.9
Current account balance/GDP                   -4.3     -3.9      -3.5     -5.1
Interestpayments/GDP                          0.1       0.6       0.6      0.6     Savings    i                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                13.0     43.9      56.2     53.2
Total debt service/exports                    23.4     22.5      13,3     11.6
Present value of debt/GDP                       .        ..      31.4
Present value of debttexports                  ..        ..    166.7                            Indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96    1996       1996  1997-6
(average annual growth)                                                                       Bangladesh
GDP                                  5.0      4.2       4.4       5.3      6.0
GNP per capita                       2.4       2.4      2.8       3.2      7.3                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        6.0     15.0      34.6      11.4      7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
('A of GDP)                                  1976     1986       1995     1996      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agrculture                                    62.0     41.8      30.9     30.0    30
Industry                                      11.6     16.0      17.6     17.7    20
Manufacturing                                7.0      9.9       9.6       9.6
Services                                     26.4      42.3      51.5     52.4    10
Private consumption                          95.9     90.6       77.9     79.1       90   91   92   93   94   95   90
General government consumption                 3.2      7.3      13.7     13.7
Imports of goods and services                 8.1      18.3      22.5     23.9               -GDi          GDP
1976-S5  1986-96      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                    3.5      1.8      -1.0      3.7     so
Industry                                      4.7      6.5        8.4      5.3
Manufacturing                                2.9      5.9       8.6       5.3     25
Services                                      6.8       5.2       6.9      6.5
Private consumption                             ..     1.4        0.6      5.2       0
General govemment consumption                   ..     3.9        5.3      7.2                    f     93   94         96
Gross domestic investment                      8.4      7.9      28.2     10.9    .2I
Imports of goods and services                 7.9       7.0      37.7     16.2                    Exports  Imports
Gross national product                         4.9      4.3       4.4      4.7                      P        -    o
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



60
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1988      1998      1996
Domdsc prics                                                                         Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          10
Consumer prices                               21.9      10.7       5.2      4.1
ImplicitGDPdeflator                              ..    11.1        8.7      5.6      s
Govemment finance
(% of GDP) o
Current revenue                                          8.5      12.1     11.5       90   91   92    93   94   95   90
Currentbudgetbalance                             ..      1.3       3.3      2.8               -GDPdef.  -C--CPI
Overall surplus/defcit                          ..        ..       -.8     -5.7
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(mill1ons US8)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             .,      940      3,473    3,882      7.500 T
Leather                                        ..      70        202      213
Frozen food                                    ..      87        299      315
Jute goods                                     ..      358       319      330      900o
Garments                                       ,       116      1,980    2,548
Total imports (cif)                             ..     2,647     5,834    8,881      2       H UI    fi0
Food                                           ..     607        478      586
Fuel and energy                                ..     359        383      458
Capa goods                                     .      691       1,688    1,918        0 
Export price index (1987=100)                    ..      74        186      194            90  91  92  93  94  9S  go
Import price index (1987=100)                    ..     104        127      130                   oExports   EImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..       71        146      150
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  427    1,162      4,130    4,508      o
Imports of goods and services                1,459    2,864      6,545    7,614          9o  91   92   93   94   95  9g
Resource balance                            -1,033   -1,702     -2,415   -3,106
Net income                                      -6      -90        -41       -6     
Net current transfers                          417    1,178      1,426    1,475     4        
Current account balance,
beforeofficial capital transfers            -621      -613     -1,030   -1,637     ^
Financing ftems (net)                          666      536      1,304      575
Changes in net reserves                        -45       77       -274    1,062    -8
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)             148      356      3,070    2,018
Conversion rate (ocal/USs)                     8.9     26.0       40.2     40.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1990
(millions US$)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,861    6,874     16,370   17,070                   F  G   A
IBRD                                          55       55         55       46                   F  2     A6
IDA                                          295    2,021      5,638    5,713                  244 206
Total debt service                             105      356        729      687                                     B
IBRD                                           0        3          8        8                                   5638
IDA                                            2       22         83       92           E
Composition of net resource flows
Offcial grants                               315      472        890      678
Official creditors                           576      563        849      766
Private creditors                             -3       -3        -72      -25                                  C
Foreign direct investment                      0        0         2                                           622
Portfolio equity                               0        0         67      -14                      4072
World Bank program
Commitments                                  205      398        356      168      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                91       288       197       278    |   - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        6         46       55      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                      91      282        151      223     _                                          1
Interest payments                              1       20        46        45
Net transfers                                 90      262        105      178
Development Economics. 1996 extemal debt and resource ilows data are staff estimates (preliminary).                    8115197



61
Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned (in US$)         Actual (in US$)
(At final IEPS stage)     (until 09/30/97)
Bank budget only                      350,000                  215,200
Trust Funds                         300,000                  182,100
Total                                650,000                  397,300
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        36 months               25 months
First Bank mission (identification)                12/05/95                12/05/95
Appraisal mission departure                       03/15/97                 06/28/97
Negotiations                                      09/15/97                 07/29/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     07/15/98                 01/01/98
C. Prepared by:                          Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance
D. Preparation assistance:               Japanese PHRD Trust Fund, New Zealand Trust Funds, Canadian
International Development Agency UK - Department of International
Development
E. Bank staff who worked on the              Staff                            Speciality
project included:
Pierre Landell-Mills           Country Director, Bangladesh
Alastair McKechnie              Sector Manager, Energy
Marilou Uy                     Sector Manager, Private Sector Dev,
S. V. Iyer (TTL)               Project Finance
Per Ljung                      Energy, Infrastructure and Project Finance
Peter Kyle                      Senior Legal Counsel, Private Sector
Ramesh Ramankutty              Environment
Maninder Gill                   Social and Resettlement
A.S.M. Bashirul Huq            Energy
Pedro Correia da Silva         Country Lawyer
Owaise Saadat                  Private Sector Development and Finance
Arun Banerjee                  Economist
Ismail Mobarek                 Ports
Thampil Pankaj                 Highways
John Sachs                     Financial Analyst
Janice Williams-Palenzuela     Operations Analyst
Anna Goodman                   Project Assistant
Khalid Siraj (Peer Review)     Financial Sector
Suman Babbar (Peer Review)     Co-financing



62
Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Report
1. Operations Manual
2. Information Brochure
3. Brochure on Private Sector Participation
4. Environment and Social Framework
5. Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center (IIFC) Reports
6. Report on sub-project assessment
7. Technical Assistance
8. Procurement for Investment Advisory Services
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Qualitative macro-economic assessments
2. Proforma micro-economic analysis
3. IDCOL Appraisal Report, including financial analysis
4. Organization and structure options for IDCOL
5. Sub-project pipeline and sector assessment
6. Procurement issues for Haripur and Meghnaghat sub-projects
7. Project Appraisal Document
C. Other
1. Development Credit Agreement
2. Project Agreement
3. Memorandum and Articles of Association for IDCOL
4. Agency and Administration Agreement
5. Investment Advisory Agreement
6. Paper on Risks
7. Perception of Investors and Lenders towards Bangladesh
Infrastructure
8. Barriers to Greater Private Sector Investment in Infrastructure
in South Asia
9. Case studies on various sub-projects
10. Concession Agreements and other security agreements for IPPs



