AES MEGHNAGHAT LIMITED
MEGHNAGHAT POWER PROJECT                        E178
UPDATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT            X 78
Volume 5
APPENDIX M6: SUPPLEMENTARY DOCUMENTATION -
PROJECT FOLLOW-UP INITIATIVES AND
PUBUC REVIEW OF THE SEPTEMBER 2000
EIA REPORT
ESG INTERNATIONAL INC.
APRIL, 2001                                 FILE  COY






PJFJI/         IZn JX     HtM  MHr.lrUN rVi LII. v4 aV- o30                               INU. e-    LWJ'4
A   Meghnaghat Limited                            .
/    November 7. 2000                                             .
The Secretar y.                                                                 )
Bangladesh Power Development Board                      *'
l'Floor,WAPDABhaban                                                          -
Motijheel CA, Dhaka 1000                                            ' g  -
Subject      Mitigation of Environmental and Social Impacts Arising from Land Acquisition for
the Meghnaghat Site
Dear Sir,
In the course of Environmental Impact Assessment ("EIA') for AES Meghnaghat 450MW CCPP
Project ("Project"), the Project Affected Persons ("PAPs") were extensively consulted to record their
views and concenis for the Project, identify the environmental and social issues that have arisen or
may likely to arise due to implementation of the Project and take necessary management measures to
rnitigate such impacts. Out of many issues the PAPs and the local community have raised to us, the
followings are put forward to BPDB for fruitful resolution.
1.     Opening a Gate on the BPDB Access Road
The villagers from Ganganagar cornplained that construction of the Access Road and the security
fence on its top. has effectively blocked movements of people, children, livestock, agricultural
tools and appliances, harvested crops, from one side of the Access Road to the other and demanded
opening of a gate at a suitable location, preferably near the south corner of Ganganagar Village. The
request letter submitted by the Liaison Committee of the PAPs (Land Owners) and endorsed by the
Honorable Member of Parliament, Professor Mohammad Rezaul Karirm is enclosed.
~ BPDB is requested to arrange a meeting with the villagers in the presence of Project Company's
representative to discuss the merit of this demand, considering the present developments of
commercial and industrial units on both sides of the Access Road and resolve the issue.
2.    Water Logng
The villagers of Ganganagar complained that rain water and discharges from the nearby industries
collected on the south side of the Access Road can not go out due to lack of proper drainage, despite
the fact that BPDB has constructed a pipe culvert beneath the Access Road to facilitate drainage of
water from this area. BPDB is requested to review the performance of the culvert and, if found
ineffective, take necessary corrective measures.
3.     Sand Transport
Due to lack of topsoil, no vegetative cover has grown yet on the Meghnaghat Site. Wind
blows off a lot of sand to the nearest villages around the Meghnaghat Site and spoils food
and water kept by the villagers for their consumption and causes damages to standing crops.
Sand blowing from AES Meghnaghat Site is gradually taken care through regular watering
on the Site soil and plantation of trees. BPDB is requested to mitigate this issue either by
putting a thin layer of brick chips or soil on Phase II and Im land to facilitate growth of grass
and prevent carry over of sand by wind.
4.    Site Flling
Private landowners cornplained that BPDB filled up more land than they acquired. Site
filling by dredging might have resulted in submergence of some private land under sand
over flown with the drain water. BPDB is requested to identify its land boundary and mark it
*,      with permnanent posts. RPDB is also requested to hold a meeting with the private landowners
and come to a resolution with them on this issue. Xf the landowners want removal of the
sand. BPDB should remove the overlaid sand at its own cost.
S ha;,jr - =Jocr E -.A. 2sc'j Rck-,a' --ari. Sher-Reangla Nsca  Dhaka 12C,7. c-'e'. 2--'32*- -



f'P, LJ.            j     "C r1 nI r"Lru rIvi LIL. v7 Z)± I .IZ or  ra Nu. 4,    L'JzP
5,    River Bank Erosion
There was a concern at Islampur Village about bank erosion associated with dredging and
subsequent slide of the village into the river. Although from the post dredging bathymetry, it
appears that no dredging was done in the vicinity of Islampur Village, BPDB should keep on
monitoring the course of the river until its bed has stabilized and keep the villagers informed
of any threat of bank erosion, which may reasonably be attributed to river dredging.
6.    Opening of a Gate for Access to Meghnaghat Site and Providing Assistance in
Construction of a Road Along the Northern Embankment up to Dhaka-Chittagovg
Highway
The affected people from the villages of Doodghata, Khurbanpur, Mongalergaon, Pachani,
Chargoaldi, and other villages lying on the north side of the back channel demanded opening of a
gate at the north-west comer of the Meghnaghat Site to allow their comiing on the Meginaghat Site
for job in construction of the power plants. The PAPs also dcemanded assistance in construction of a
road along the slope/toe of the northern embankmnents of the Meghnaghat Site and the Access Road,
up to Dhaka-Chittagong Highway for movernents of around thirty thousand people from the above
villages to Meghnaghat for education, job and business. The request letters submitted by the Liaison
Conmmittee of the PAPs (Land Owners) are enclosed.
As claimed by the villagers, it takes an hour for a person from the above villages to come to
Meghnaghat using the existing road, which meets Dhaka-Chinagong Highway at Mugrapara. at a
cost of Taka 20 per person. The requests appear to have a lot of merits and were also endorsed by the
Honorable Member of Parliament, Professor Mohammad Rezaul Karim. Opening of a gate at the
north-west corner of the Meghnaghat Site will improve accessibility of economically displaced
people to temporary employment in construction of the power plants. Construction of a road along
the northem embankment will facilitate their coming to Meghnaghat, which is a fast growing
industrial and commercial hub in Lhe region. With the coming up of many new industries,
Meghnaghat promises a lot of opportunities for new employmnent and businesses.
In the consultation meetings, the affected landowners told us that one of the assurances given by the
Deputy Comnurissioner of Narayanganj at the time of land acquisition, was creation of job
opportunities for local people in construction of the power plants and sharing project benefits with
thenL Due to such assurances, the landowners cooperated with the DC in land acquisition for the
Meghnaghat Site. Land was the main source of livelihood for the villagers. After losing access to this
valuable resource, many of them have not yet been able to rehabilitate ithemselves to new
employment. Allowing them to come on the Meghnaghat Site or facilitating their access to
Meghnaghat will help the PAPs in restoration of their lost income The Project Company may extend
necessary cooperation and assistance in this effort.
Yours sincerely,
Iai  am
Project Manager
Enclosure: Three (3) separate request letters from the Liaison Conuittee of the PAPs
-/gA st  Chairman, Bangladesh Power Development Board
-"X r,N   x     ) Director. IPP Cell, Bangladesh Power Development Board
/  Xroject Director, Meghnaghat Power Company, Bangladesh Power Development Board
l-haj Serajul Haque Bhuiyan, Chairman, Pirojpur Union Parishad, Sonargaon, Narayanganj
M Islam, Chairman, Liaison Committee of PAPs (Land Owners)
2



j1/22f2e0a  18:13   ~88-2--95S47&5O256
CHrRAN BPDB                               PAGE  el
BANCLADISH POWER DVE*LOPMET DOARD
WAPO)A BULDNri (1d Floor)
12, Motijbee Couinzvra Ameu. DbakcR-1000'
Teh 9554209
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fax' .l 918345. 954765, 9551IAA
Secretary                                                   F)  £4- |-
Datez21) /t112000
Memo No.            -PDB (SteAt.)Dv. -107/9S
AES Meghnawbt Ltd.
- l   Bhaba (5* floor), V8-A. Begum RIncya Shari
Sher-e-Bagla Nagar, Dhka-1207.
Fax No 9132359.....
Attnt  Mr Tajul Islam, Project Manage?.
Ref:   Your leter dated: 7 Novenber, 2000.
Sub:   Midgation of Environmental and Social Impateb Arsing from Land Acqulsition Cor the MeghnaOghat
Slte.
Dear sirs,
In rtspOnSe to your lener under reference regirding th  Mkiigation of Enwironmental and Social Impacts at
Meghnaghat Site. this is to inform you thazt BPDB received 'no objection' cerrit1jtc from Bangladesh
Envirorumcnial Depanmcnt to Cons,uc 4S0 MW Combined Cycle Pover Station at Merlxaght Site (copy
eaclosed). So there should be nQwanmental impacts or other impacts at site.
Meghoag'hat Power Project s3i 1a a Key Puit I Sallaiin (KPI) of Bangladesh. Threr or more power staion wiU be
installed in the Megbnaghet Site and thr access road will be used by all the power starlon uwncrs. So for the secwitW
pose of Rl the powet stinnA, it is not posSible to optn a gale at any place of the Access Road. To construct a
now i-oad alog the toc/slopr of tbe Nonhttn Ewbabnwat up to D)haka-Chittagong Highway.is not recbically
recommeuded. The village3 rmay approacb so loal Govt. for led cquisition and ronstruction of such new road-
Most of the places on the south side of the Access Road already filled by the land owners and test of the places may
be filled within a short time. Moreover there is a culvert to facilimate the water logging problems. Hence there should
be DO problem of water logging.
The Northern bida of Pbrae-U vni tiT is mosgtly surr-unded by the nver. So sand blowing aom these sidcs cannot
cause damage to standby crops and villagers.
BPDB filled and developed the land which they acquired. Before filling the land, BIPDB denarcated the boundary of
the laud ad after filling BPDB also checked it. No clai4 from any land ovmers have been received by BPDB. So it
is clear That no extrA land other than those acquired were filled up by BPDB.
Thanking you,
4~V   U&r,r4      (Md. Seraj uddullah)
Memo No.          -PDR (Secttf)/Tev. -107/95                                       D1e:    n1/2000
Copy to.
1. Mtmber (P&D), UPDB, Dhaka.
2. Chief EDgineer (P&D), BPDB, Dhaka.
3.Megla Mghat Power Proct, BPDB, Dhana.
4. Drcstor, IP? Ce!.
S. cso,t Ct  a   BPDB,DIha_
_ MtwSJd)
,~~~-  ,, ____~ vrrL5. r



* iES Meghnaghat Limited
January 1, 2001
Dr. Fouzul Kabir Khan
Managing Director & CEO
Infrastmcture Development Company ULmited
IDB Bhaban (6* Floor)
Ef8-A, Begum Rokeya Sharani
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka 1207
Subject:    EIA and RAP for the AIES Meghnaghat 45OMW Power Projert
Dear Sir,
We refer to your email dated December 23, 2000 in connection with processing the EIA and
RAP for our Meghnaghat Power Project. We confirn that we concur with the suggestions
put forvard by yotu in the above email and will take necessary actions in this regard.
As an immediate measure to deal with cases of impoverishmcnt and hardship anong the
affected landowners, we have started talking to each affected family and finding candidates
for temporary employrnent in construction of the project. We believe that providing jobs in
_         construction is the most effective measure to prevent any deterioration of the living standard
of the affected landowners. We will also expedite the training program conumitted in the
RAP to find altemative employment for the affected family mnembers in various industries as
*w°   well as temporary employment in construction of the projecL
We will bring the issue of under-compensation to the attenion of BPI)B with the proposal
of applying some lease fees towards mitigation of the hardship of the affected landowners
and pursue the case with BPD1I expeditiously.
With regard to in-country disclosure of the EIA and RAP, we have placed one complete set
of the EIA document including the RAP at local Union Parishad Office and another set at
the PAP liaison Committee Office, for commets of the visitors and have notified in two
national dailies to that effect Copies of our notificadons are enclosed for your information
and record.
Yours sincerely,
iju
Mahtab Uddin Ahmed                     *
Project Engineer
Cc:  S. Vijay Iyer, South Asia Energy Division, The World Bank (Fax: +1-202-522-2427)
Jitendn Shah, Environmental Expert, The World Bank (Fax: +1-202-522-2427)
Warren Waters, South Asia Social Devclopment Unit, The World Rank ((Fax: +1-
202-522-1662)
InAR Rh3hn P Flnur MA. Beoum RokeYa Sharai, Sher-e-Banga Nagap. aikaA1207, Bangladesh. Tel: 88"-9132361-1, Fax: M2-9132359



caIzJucoJj s  L.;JJ mc fz nmmsifuru rvi LiV. -                                 'ILl. rf    c
The Daily Ittefaq
January 1, 2001
...          .      ,    I                     . N .  . ... I
.1w .            j    .. t.       -'
":     7 %       '4fWtzI     Eivi3ronm  (Environmentpact
ImatAssessment) O*4 -fR*              W    AOf*~¶~1~IL
s8to CR0,410 qn t an CNaqxf fti5 m, ("O""¢W) -mirgo C
-t    c"     -sr , 7fWt4 vFic    'Y-T,        (c;rwu n t 
ZMM zw-1t$                                .11v1 :1ut$%\ C--T i:I
-   E   z 14iW. -tv  "n."       gfe       T1311" (Environmental
Imipakt Assessment) af~ fM 9    %i; gfm   lqfX   1 
.~~'k'     F- wN* 5f7im  f4~               qP1 (miim191 -CV
OR~S lkq 7,T  :Octoo 0iY 4;mF a-vt no   to    va (ol
.f4   SCMTs f "  Wm cwN om  c c
t 0 0 W9 4Tpt 2 z47e t 'a) 04



*    oI'IJ E   C±.,J.J  rlC   l-F-rXJpI,   rv,  L.IIJ.  7~                      P4U. rue w2
Ur%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u rw    wooL IV.
The Daily Star
January 1, 2001
_                               I
|     The GC-lobal Power Comnpany. .
Notice for Release of the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EtA) Report on the Project
People of various professions, land owners. and other local and
regional stakeholders, who have been affected, or believe or have
reason to believe that 'they may also bc potentially affected by the
450 MW AES Meghnaghat Power Prject ("Project") now under
implementation at Mouza Char Ramjan Sonaullah, in Souargaon
Thana under Narayanganj District, are informed by this notice that
the Environmental Impact Assessrm".nt ("EIA") Report on the
Project has been made available for their access at the Offices of
Pirojpur Union Parishad and Liaison Committee of PAPs at Toll
Plaza of Meghna Bridge. for a period of sixty (60) days from 1
January 2001.
Interested persons may visit either of the two locations in any
working day during that 60 day period from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM to
read the EIA report, and write down their comments on the Project
in the register kept there for this' purpose. The Project sponsor will
be pleased to receive any comments, suggestions, and constructive
criticisms on implementation anFbperition of the Project.
AES MEGHNAGHUT LIMITEDe,
- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Govemment of the Peoples Republic of Bangladesh
Office of the Deputy Director
Department of Environment, Dhaka Division
E-16, Agargaon, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka-1 207
Memo No. Environment/DhaBi/2675/325             Date, Dhaka: 01/0312001
Mahtab Uddin Ahmed
Project Engineer
AES Meghnaghat Limited
IDB Bhaban, E/8-A
Begum Rokeya Sharani
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka-1207
Subject:  Regarding approval of EIA Report.
Reference: Your application dated 2311/2001.
With reference to the above mentioned subject and reference you are hereby informed
that, the application submitted by you was sent to the meeting of the Committee for
Environmental Clearance for kind consideration. After elaborate discussion in the
meeting on the subject, decision was taken to send you a letter with instruction for taking
up the following actions:
a) You have to take up necessary actions immediately to prepare an EIA Addendum
with the information received so far, in response to the advertisement published by
you in the national dailies on 1 January 2001 for receiving Public Opinion.
b) The mentioned EIA Addendum has to be submitted to this office for approval, after
its preparation.
c) Next action will be taken by this office after receiving and reviewing the EIA
Addendum.
With instruction of the Authority-
Signature
(Mahmood Hassan Khan)
Deputy Director (Technical)
Copy: for kind information.
1. Director General, Power Cell, Kawran Bazar, Dhaka
2. Personal Secretary to the Honorable Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources, Bangladesh Secretariat, Dhaka



AES Meghnaghat Limited
Januay 9. 2001
Dr. Fouzl Kabir Khan
Execudve Dirctor & CEO
frasuuctre Development Company Lrimited
IDB Bbaban (61I Floor)
ElS-A, Begum Rokeya Sbarani
Sbeh-e-Bangla Nagar, Dbaka 1207
Subject:     Response to World Bank's Comnents Dated October 5. 2000 on the EIA for the
Meghnaghat Power Project
Dear Sir,
We refer to your queries regarding incorporation of the comments from the World Bank and Il)COL
in the final EIA report for Meghnaghat Power Project. Our responses to the comments are attached.
Please note that the comnents were received on October 8, 2000 whereas the EIA report was
finalized in September 2000. However, many of the comments were continuation of earlier
comments and have been reflected in the final EIA and are shown in the attachments.
The draft repoTt on the study of alternative discharge of hot cooling water into the Mcghna River via
_t^,   embedded pipe, shows that this alternative is a better option than discharge via open canal as far as
the environmental inpacts aconcerned and is technically and economically feasible. We will
forward the final report to TDCOL and the World Banrk for review as soon the report is issued.
With regard to the associated facilities, AES can not undetake the responsibility of preparing EIA
for these facilities implemented by other govermment agencies. However, we will keep track of ElA's
prepared by the concerned agencies and will take up with appropriate authorities mitigation
measures, if any, identified in these reports.
We have also committed to a new survey for establishing the baseline of fisheries in the Meghna
River in front of the project Site and following up the issue of unplanned developments in the
Megimaghat area with the Govenment of Bangladesh and the Department of Environment to avoid
over crowding and prevent deterioration of the local environment-
In addition, we also undertake to work closely work with IDCOL and the World Ban  on the
remaining comments, which could not be incorporated in the final EIA.
Yours sincerely,
Project Manager
Cc:   S. Vijay Iyer, South Asia Energy Divisiou The World Bank (Fax: +1-202-522-24Z7)
Jitendra Shah, South Asia - Eovironm    Sector, The World Bank (Fax: + 1.202-522-1664)
Waaen Waters, South Asia Social Developmeat Unit, The World Bank ((Fax: +1.202-522-
2427)
I Dhban, 5 Fbor, ESA 5egwn N ot kra Shw. S* *ang Na9a, O9ka-l?, BanUadesh. Tel: 8O2.R1323M4-, Fax: 824913239



-_ c bS ~*  __     r  _|1)   9   I Ir,s    ~J'  L. /*_sJ42 Ad  I  | J         NI. I :IAd  LI.JJ
r]j    -  IWRf4SKTURE DEVELOPMENT COMPONY UMNIED
1DB Bhaban, 6th floor, Agargaon, Sher..Bangla Nagar, G. P. O box- 619, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh
Phones: 811i235, 8117528, Fax: 880-2-8116663, a-mail: idcol@dhaka.agnlcoom
Ref: IDCOL(Meghnaghat/2001l51                               Januay 18, 2001
Mr. Scott Kicker
Managing Director
AES Meghnaghat, Limited
1DB Bkaban (50m Floor) E/8-A, Begum Rokeya Sharani
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka-1207
Re: IDCOLs lettes dated June 17, 1997 and January 31, 2000
Dear Mr. Kicker:
In continuation of the above referenced lettes and matters related thereto, I am pleased to
inform you that IDCOL Board has approved a total loan of US$80 million to ABS
Meghraglat Limited ("AESMIL") to permit it to build, own and operate a 450 MW gas-fired
power generating plant. IDCOL's loan has two tranches: a US$20 mnillion senior loan and
US$60 million tranche as detailed in draft term sheet delivered by Lenders Counsel, Allen
and Overy to AES Transpower Private Ltd. ("ARS") and its solicitor Slaughter and May
("SM") pursuant to fornal request made by the latter on Noyember 20, 2000 vide letter
reference SP003675.856
The Board approval is subject to the following additional conditions:
1. Execution of a term sheet between the lenders and AESML materially along the lines of
the draft term sheet mentioned above;
2. Finalization of satisfactory project documentation including IDCOL loan agreements
substantively in line with the executed term sheet mentioned in item (1);
3. AESML will be responsible for implenenting the mitigation and management plans
described in the Enviromnent Assessment ("EA") the Social Inpact Assessment C(SIA")
and related management plans,'including the Rehabilitation Action Plan ("RAP"). In
addition to the management measures contained in the EA and SIA document dated
September 2000, AESML will implement the following additional management plans:
* Measures to maintain the livelihoods of affected landowners by (a) creating
temporary employment opportunities; and (b) ltaining program designed to assist
them in finding alternative employment;
Preparation of a inal report on the study of altenative discharge of hot cooling
water into the Meghna River, for joint review by IDCOL and IDA;
Is11    2001 II:
VU--J



INUFRTRCrURE DEVELOPMENT COMPENY UMITED
*        OIDB Bhaban, 6th ?loor, Agaraon, Sher-e-Bangfa Nagar, G. P. 0 Box 619, Dhaka-1207, Bangadesah
Phones , 8111235, 8117526, Fax: 880-2.8116663, e-mail: idcol@dhaka.agnl.com
*  Preparation of a new map, to be updated yearly, the purpose of which is to'recond
the progressive development of the Meghnaghat area and provide assistance to the
Department of Environment in issuing environmental clearances for new
industries;
* Provision of assistance to TITAS, the gas supplier, for preparation of a full ETA
for the proposed gas supply pipeline; and
*  Creation of a new baseline survey on' the fish species available in the Megmna
river up to 1000 m upstream, and 1000 m downstream, from the proposed project
site before start of main construction to be updated semi-annualy durng the
operation period to record continuing impacts.
The above arrangements should be formalized in EA volumue 1-Main Report, Sections 5
and 6, with the amended document submitted to our office by February 15, 2001.
4. AESML will inform IDCOL about the results of its systematic and expeditious follow-up
of the issue of under-compensation to affected landowners by Financial Closing.
Sinclm y
Dr. M. Fouzul Kabir Khan
Executive Director and CEO
Copy:
Dr. Masihur Rahman
Secretary, Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Frederia Temple
Country Director, World Bank
Mr. Alastair J. McKechnie
Director, Energy Sector Unit, South Asia Region
World Bank



ek.5/ki4/E1i           RE1:115    RES HARIPUR PUT LTD. 4 519 836 2493             NO.346   P03
AES Meghnaghat Limited
25 February 2001                                                    N.
The Managing Director
ritas Gas Transmission & Distribution Co. Ltd.
Titas Gas Bhaban
105 Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue
Kawran Bazar, Dhaka 1215
Subject Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for Gas Transportation Faclities of
Titas
Dear Sir:
In accordance with Clause 1 1.1 (b) (iii) (B) of the Gas Supply Agreement signed between
T,tas Gas Transportation and Distribution Co. Ltd. (MTtas) and AES Meghnaghat Urmited
('AESM") on July 29, 1999, Titas has made the covenant to the effect that it shall design.
construct, complete, operate, maintain (either by itself or through experienced and
qualified third party contractors) and own the Transportation Facilities and any and all
additionally required facilities, under the laws of Bangladesh and (if not inconsistent.
therewith) the Environmental Guidelines. In relation to the GSA the Laws of Bangladesh
means all laws in force in Bangladesh and includes all rules, regulations. orders,
directives, notifications made or issued by any competent authority pursuant to or under
any such law.
~I      As per the Environmental Conservation Rules 1997 made under the Environmental
Conservation Act 1995, construction, reconstruction or extension of any gas distribution
line is classified as 'Red' category project for which the sponsor shall undertake an EIA
i2G Pam Cospu   study and submit the EIA report to the Department of Environment (DOE) for obtaining
environmental clearance for the gas distribution line project.
We will appreciate if you will let us know the progress of the EIA for the-Transportation
Facilities and other additionally required facilities sponsored by Titas to supply gas to the
AES Meghnaghat 450MW CCPP Project. If such EIA is not yet undertaken, we request
you to do so as soon as possible to meet your obligations under the Laws of Bangladesh.
understand that all the land required for construction of the 0.5 kilometer long
*;U  <vdEypiline and the valve station will be acquired by Titas under the Laws of
,' angladesh. Therefore, your EIA shall also identify the social impacts of this land
a c quisitsh and address them as per the Laws of Bangladesh. We are wilting to provide
'essi kYs assistance and cooperation to Titas for completion of the EtA for your
\- '  n nsp&ration Facilities and other additionally required facilities.
Sincerely.
Managin  Director                                                       .-.-' -4,)
Cc:   Secretary, Energy Division, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resouroes. GO
Secretary, Power Division, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, GOB
Chairman, Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Mineral Corporatiop
..-
IDR Bhaban 5' Flrnr F/R-A. Beoum Rnkp*rn Sharard. Sher-e-Bannob Naoasr. Dhaka-1207. BanaIar3es¶.. rP:B802-913Z 6i-7. Fax: 88B-2-9132359



--- --- ---I
-es 2 e81303
88D-2-813031  TITAS W 1S
TITAS GAS TRANSMISSION & DISIBUTION 
(A COMPANY OF PETROBANGLA)       I .-
"¶taa .Oa& Bhaban', 106, azi Nmul Isam Avnue, 
Kavmawn Eaar ComeielS Area, Bhak-121.   gesh
Fax ; 880-2411301, 88.2-9120513 PABX: SWI&S842
E-mal  titnsas~boUeco.m .._tf
-   '  - WY F".                                -8t}'
Ref: BCRMSIAESH/011/                                             0 March 2001
AP-S Meghnaghat Ltd.    
IDSB Bhaban (5tl floor)
E8-A Rokeya Sharani
Sher-e- Bangia Nagar
(haka-1207.
Fax No. 9132359
Attn. Mr. ScottKickerj, Managing Director.
Subo: CEnvironmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for G;as
Dear Sir,
Kindly refer to your. letter of 25 February 2001 on the above subject While
appriciating your concern for the ETA, We would recall with please your assistance
provided for Haripur 360 MW CCPP and would expect now the similar assistance. This
would probably be helpfuli hr smooth Implementation of the project including the gas
transportation facilities and" the station,
Hope to get necessary assistance from you end and to provide from our end
any administrative support for the EiA on the portion of pipeline and station as
mentloned.
Thanking you     :
:                 .  'h~~~~~~ours f
I \   b -.LR 2,Xl  81  M4anur Mhed lrakkder ............ 
\Al~~~~~~~G  (OpeatiG^oon) -:b;.
,            -      . ~~~~~PrDjec:t Manqetlgtr Ulqf



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  -,  -                  -'  - -_4  - - - -
.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
-.---.~~~ - .                              .
Government of the People's Republie of Bangladesh
Department of Envirmnt
E16 Agargao't
Shere--Banglanawr, Dbaka-1207'
Meo-N,o ParibWJDb674?U                                             1      93 Dat
Sbjec Approval of the Environmental Impaet Assessment (EIA) Report on A2ES Mcgua2gb2t 450
MW Combined Cycle Power P)ant Project
R        srce  ) Your Application Dated November 08,2000
b) DOE's Memo. No. Pagtibesh/Dhabi/2674I202 Dated 18.01.2001
c) YoUr Application Dated 11.03.2001
d) Minutes of 21g MUeting of he Envionmental Cleamae Committe
%ith regard to the above mtoned su~je and references the underzigned is directed to inform approval
of Evironmntal Impact Assesment (ELA) Report on AES Meghnagha 450 MW Combined Cycle
Power Plant Project under the tenns and conditions as follows:
1. The proponent shall be ablk to open Letter of Credit (i/C) for importable machinery, which Will
include a list of Machinery concerned/related to the installation of the Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP)
2. Upon completion of the installation of ETP and implementation of tbe mitigation measres suggested
in the EIA the proponent shall apply for Environmental Clearance.
3, The proponent shall not be able to obtain Gas connection, start Trial Production and operation of the
projec without having Environmental Clearan=c.
4. -he proponent shaUl submit the following information/docunments along with the Application for
Environmental Clearance:
a) Detail drawing, design and description of the Effluent Treatmcnt Plant
b) The presence of Chromrium (Cr) has bten shown in the EIA report The sowce and the description of
ttment,  liqble for Chromium should be submintted.
5. The updated progress report of the implenentation of the mitigation measwes has to be submithed on
a niontbly basis to concerned DOE divisional office and head office simultaneously.
6. Any activity or process of the project shall not pollute the environrnent beyond the limits existing
under the DOE nrles and regulations on the date hereof.
7. All wases generated by the project that require treatment under the DOE rules and regulations on the
date hereof shall be collected or treated in a planned manner, and it must be ensurd that tbese
operations are perfonmed in a manmer appropriate to health and envirownent
8. If any legitimate complain is made in fiture regarding pollution of the environnent beyond the
Permissble limits due to the project, and if this is proved to be true by this depat t, then your
organization will be required to take reasonable aod appropriate contrnla correction easures.
9. Without prior approval of this department, no modification can be nmade to the information submittedk
such as location of the project, production process and production capacity.
I0. Enviromment conducive to good health and safety of the workers shall bc ensured within the plant.
I1. A greenbelt shall be created by planting indigaeous and suitable fruit and wood yielding plat spees
and mDbes on all possible locations around the plantl
12. Necesry lega action would be takcn in case of violation of any of the above conditions.
(Mohamped Solaiman  aldher)
Assistant Diretor (Techical)
and
Member Secretary,
Environmental Clearance Committee
Dirg tor
S Megbaghat Ltd
1DB Bualding (5* floor)
E/8- A Sber-e-Banglanagar
Dhalca,1207.
CC.
PA to the Director General, DOE
CZt DoonnEm CWwpvE & Iha4cftwdm



AES Meghnaghat Limited
2 Aprl 2001
Dr. Fouzul Kabir Khan
Executive Director & CEO
Infrastructure Development Company Limited
IDB Bhaban l6e Floor)
E/8-A, Begum Rokeya Sharani
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka 1207
Reference: IDCOL's letter dated 18 January 2001 on the EIA
Dear Sir
We refer to Clause No. 3 of the referenced letter where AES Meghnaghat Limited has been
asked, among others, to carry out a new baseline survey on the fish species available in the
Meghna River before the start of main construction and updating the survey results semi-
annually.
Please be informed that the baseline survey on fisheries will take approximately ten months
to capture the seasonal variation in fish composition and catch rates in the Meghna River
and will cost around USS 50,000. Each monitoring survey is expected to take almost the
same amount of time and resource, as the original baseline survey. Therefore, updating
^      the baseline data semi-annually will not be practicable and the results will be difficult to
correlate with the baseline data. We therefore propose to update the baseline data once
sa  cO¢  every two years to monitor the continuing impacts during operation of the power plant
Please further note that construction works of the power plant is already in progress and the
baseline survey has to be carried out during construction. We do not think that constructiDn
activities will have any material impact on the baseline considering the size of the river.
study area and the fact that there will be no discharge into the river before commissioning
of the plant However, we confirm that the baseline fisheries survey will be completed
much ahead of commissioning of the plant.
We therefore request you to amend the requirement of your proposed management and
monitoring plan for fisheries according to our above proposal.
Yours sincerely,
Mahtab Uddin Ahmed
Project Engineer
Cc:  S. Vijay lyer, South Asia Energy Division, The World Bank (Fax: +1-202-522-2427)
Jitendra Shah, Environmental Expert, The World Bank (Fax: +1-202-522-2427)
Warren Waters, South Asia Social Development Unit, The World Bank (Fax: +1-
202-522-2427)
IDB Bhaban, 5" Flor. E/8-A, Bgum Rokeya Sharani, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar. Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh. Tel: B82.9132361-7, Fax : 880-2-9132359



AES Meghnaghat Limited
Apnl 4, 2001
The Secretary
Bangladesh Power Development Board
1 Floor. WAPDA Bhaban
Motijheel CA, Dhaka
Subject    EIA for AES Meghnaghat 450MW Combined Cycle Power Plant
Dear Sir.
We are pleased to forward herewith a copy of the EIA Report including the RAP
(Appendix K) prepared following the guidelines of the World Bank, the Asian Development
Bank and Bangladesh Department of Environment (DOE). The report identified the
impacts of AES Meghnaghat 450MW CCPP Project and proposed practical mritgation
measures therefor.
The economic impact of land acquisition for the AES Meghnaghat Site is the permanent
loss of income for the landowners, agricultural wage labourers, sharecroppers, etc. who
used to depend on such land for their livelihood. In various public consultation meetings
conducted with the stakeholders as part of the EIA, the landowners complained that
compensation received from the Govemment of Bangladesh for land was low compared
to the actual market price and they have experienced a substantial decline in their lving
standard.
To support the affected groups in restoring their lost income, we have oommitted to
provide jobs to the affected landowners and other PAP groups in construction of the
power plant and vocational skills training to the PAPs and their nominees with the
objective that they can find employment in altemative profession. We have provided
temporary employment to twenty-eight (28) PAPs in construction works and will try to
employ up to a rnaximum of 200 PAPs in construction works of the plant. We have also
provided training to sixty-three (63) PAPs and their nominees in ddving, welding, electical
work and masonry. Another fifty-six (56) trainees are presenty receiving skill taining at
two institutes in Dhaka. Our target is to provide training to 200 to 250 PAPs and their
descendants.
While our assistance to the PAPs will continue as per commitments made in the EIA, the
issue of under compensation raised by the landowners must be addressed by BPDB who
acquired the land under Bangladesh law. The landowners raised this issue in different
consultation meetings held at local, regional and national levels. This is documented in
Page xx of the Executive Summary and in SecUon 7.4.5: Phase ll Consultation (Page
155) of the  main EIA Report.
To address the issue of under-mpensation, we propose that part of the lease rent
payable by the Project Company to BPDB may be distributed to the impoverished land
owners so long as they are unable to restore their original living standard, The Project
Company has identified those landowners impoverished by land acquisifion for the AES
Meghnaghat Site and will forward their names to BPDB if requested.
IDB Bhaban, 5 Floor, E.A, Begum Rokeya Sharai, Sher-e-Bana Nagar. Dhaka.1 207, angladesh. Tel g8802-9132361 -7, Fax: 85-2-9132369



We look forward to your response to the issue of under oompensation and the means of
ritigation induding the one proposed above.
Yours sincerely,
U.W
Mahtab Uddin Ahmed
Project Engineer
Attachment One copy of the EIA Report dated September 2000
Copy to (without attachment):
Seretary), Power Division. Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
Chairman, Bangladesh Power Development Board
Director, IPP Cell, Bangladesh Power Development Board
Project Director. Meghnaghat Power Project



Summary of Comments from the Reviewers of the EIA
Report on AES Meghnaghat 450 MW Power Plant
51.  Name and Address of                       Comments
No.     the Commenter
1.   Md. Ishaq Ali           1. The EIA report is in English. Bengali translation
Village : Tangar Char     should be made available so that the general public of
Gazaria, Munshigani       the locality oan review the report and comment on Rt
2.   Md. Zahid Alam          1. Requested for Bengali version of the EIA report.
Village: Islampur       2. Requested to ensure pollution free environment,
Sonargaon, Narayanganj   especially pollution free air for breathing.'
3. Requested for tree plantation in the vacant spaces in
_ ________________________  the   site.
3.   Zalil Hossain           1. Requested to ensure pollution free air.
Village: Chai Hissa     2. Requested to ensure that no harm is done to the
Sonargaon, Narayanganj.  locality.
3. Requested for employment of the people from the
_ ______________________ locality.
4.   Abdul Kader             1. Requested to ensure pollution free air.
Village: Dhakargaon     2. Requested for thick plantation In the plant site.
Hasanpur, Cornilla      3. Requested for employment for the people of the
_____  _________________ ......   locality.
5.   Md. Rana Ahmed          1. Requested to take necessary measures so that the air
Village: Hoglakandi     of the locality is not polluted.
Gazaria, Munshiganj     2. Requested for4ree plantation.
3. Requested for employment of the people who lost
their land to the plant site and who used to cultivate
_  the land as sharecroppers.
6.   Md. Mukhter Hossain     1. Requested AES to be concerned so that the air of the
Village: Soya Hissa    locality is not polluted forever.
Sonargaon, Narayanganj.  2. Requested for plantation of trees to ensure clean
environment
3. Requested to arrange employment for the peoples of
the locality
7.   Md. Sagar Hossain       1. Requested for ernployment of sharecroppers and
Village: Islampur         lessors of the plant Site land.
Sonargaon, Narayanganj   2. Requested AES to ensure pollution free environment
during the operation period of the plant.
3. Requested for plantation of trees to ensure balanced
environment
8.   Md. Asheq Ali Bhuian    1. Drew attention to the low pay in the construction jobs
Village: Dudhghata        at the plant site and the high cost of travel for going to
Sonargaon, Narayanganj    work at the plant site due to lack of easy access to the
site. Requested for a gate with securnty at the North -
west corner of the plant site for the sake of minimizing
travelling cost and time of the people of Dudhghata
who are working at the construction site of the plant.
2. Requested for a gate at the north-west corner of the
Meghnaghat Site for exit of the workers returning
home from work late at night to avoid the long way
along the highway where they -et robbed of money.
9.   Md. Ali Hossain Bhulyan    1. Expressed that he did not get fair compensation for
Village: Dudhghata     the land he lost at the plant site.
Sonargaon, NaraYangani   2. Now he is unemployed and asked for employment at



CJLJ,tJ,J'ttL  CL.C.tS  flL,J   Inl-'  I FU     1rvI   L.IJ..  7N ±J lD C'4L 3    riU.tld   I#tLi
the construction site of the Plant.
3. Complained that people who are not PAPs are getting
jobs at the plant site.
4. They are in grave financial hardship and asked for
their employment at the construction site of the plant.
5. Asked for a gate at the north-west comer of the site
for easy access.
10.  Hasan Master             1. Complained that AES is not keeping commitments
Village: Char Goaldi,   made at the PCDP meetings.
Mongalergaon            2. A gate at the northwest corner, as commftted by AES
Sonargaon, Narayanganj   at the PCDP meetings, has not yet been built.
3.A road to the highway was also committed and has not
been realized.
4. Employment for the PAPs at the plant site is not of
satisfactory level.
5. PAPs have not been taken care of by AES as had
been committed.
6. A school to be built at Islampur village, as committed
by AES, has still not been buil1.
7. It seems that Hyundai is all In all. AES has no
authority to provide jobs to the PAPs In the construction
of the plant. Otherwise situation would have been
different.
8. Lastly requested for job for the PAPs at the
construction site of the Plant.
11.  Md. Asheq Ali Bhuiyan    1. None of our appeals to AES has been honored so far.
Village: Dudhghata      2. Requested for drinking water arrangement for the
Sonargaon, Narayanganj    PAPs working for construction of birbed wire fence on
both sides of the Demised Corridor directly under
project sponsor.
3. Asked for a gate at the northwest comer of the site for
the convenience of the local people who works at the
l ___  _______________________  construction  Site of the  plant
12.  Md. Shamsul Huq          1. Requested AES to ensure pollution free air.
Village: dudhghata      2. Requested to take necessary measure so that the fish
Sonargaon, Narayanganj    population of the Meghna rver is not adversely
affected by the discharge into the river from the plant.
3. Expressed concern regarding skin disease due to
bathing in the river water if the water of the river is
polluted by the discharge from the plant.
4. Expressed concern over anticipation of loud noise
from the operation of the plant.
5. Requested to ensure pure water and air during
operation period of the plant.
6. Requested to take care of the dirty and warm water
from the operation of the plant.
7. Requested for gate at the northwest corner of the
plant site.
Requested for job at the construction site for the able
PAPs or their spouses.
13.  Hasan Master               Requested for early implementation of the gate at the
Village: Mongalergaon     northwest corner of the plant site, a road from
Sonargaon, Narayanganj    Ganganagar to Islampur crossing the access road to
the plant and paving the road, as committed by AES
at the PCDP meetings for the project
_     2. Asked for jobs for their children at the prolect site.
Z-



c- .c  L)rx -.'SI LV1 D. -                            NU. Ul   L,JU4
14.  Awal Hossain             1. Regretted that they are not getting any direct benefit
Villagelslampur         from the power plant being sited at their locality.
Sonargaon, Narayanganj   2. Asked for job at Plant site for sustaining their
livelihood.
15.  Abdul Ali                1. Expressed concern over their ignorance regarding the
Village: Islampur          level of air pollution that will be caused by the
Sonargaon, Narayanganj     operation of the plant.
2. Requested AES to take all necessary measures to
keep the air pollution free. And suggested for tree
plantation as a mitigating measure to minimize air
pollution.
3. Asked for early implementation of the road and the
school at Islampur as committed earlier by AES.
4. Asked for employment of the unemployed persons of
Islampur village.
16.  Taroni Mohan Sarker      1. Suggested that AES should monitor and take
Block Supervisor, Perojpur    necessary action if necessary to mitigate the pollution
Union Parishad Office.     created by the waste discharge from the plant into the
Sonargaon, Narayanganj     river. Also expressed concem regarding the harm of
these wasle discharged into the river, on the fish of
the river and the crops.
2. Requested AES to ensure that the canals around the
project site are not filled in.
3. Requested for job for the landowner PAPs of the
project to mitigate the potential impovenishment due to
the loss of land to the plant site.
4. Suggested plantation on the unused land of the plant
_____   __________________________   site.
17.  Taleb Uddin Shah         1. Expressed concern over the effect of the pollution
Village: Islampur,         caused by the operation of the plant on the public
Sonargaon, Narayanganj     health of the locality.
2. Asked for measures to prevent any kind of
environmental pollution.
3. Expressed concern over the possibility of adverse
effect on the fisheries of the river caused by the
disposal of waste materials into the river from the
operation of the plant.
4. Asked for employment of all categories of PAPs of the
Project.
5. Suggested plantation at both within and outside of the
plant site.
8. Requested for setting up of deep tube wells at the
nearby villages of the plant site to ensure safe
drinking water for the peoples of the area.
18.  Shah alam                1. Regretted that he could not read the EIA report as it
Village: Islampur        was in English.
Sonargaon, Narayanganj     Requested for supplying Bengall version of the report
2. Asked for job for the jobless peoples of islampur who
lost all their land for the power plant and also for those
who used to sell their labor working at the land of
others.
3. Requested for ensuring that the environment is not
polluted as committed by AES during the PCDP
meetings.
19,  Sirajul Islam            1. Expressed his deep appreciation for building the
Village: Piroipur          power plant at Meghnaghat. Expressed anticipation



t.Jo,tJJ/KJ -Lg .CIrI   "C. nrvlElJl rvl LILJ. 7  a:J"-NU. t5  e
Sonargaon, Narayanganj    that establishment of the plant will meet the Electricity
shortage of the country in large extent.
2. Requested to ensure that the waste from the plat
operation do not pollute the environment.
3. Requested for a gate at the Northwest comer of the
plant site for the benefit of the villagers of Dudhghata,
Mongolergaon and Korbanpur.:
20.  Alhaz Sirajul Huq Bhuian   1. Appreciated the Govemments initiative to build a
Chairnan, Perojpur Union  power plant at Meghnaghat.
Parishad, Sonargaon,    2. Expressed concem over environmental pollution the
Narayangani               waste material discharged from the operation of the
power plant                             f
3. Commented that AES should consult experts, both
local and foreign to design the environmental
monitoring program and mitigating measures.
4. Asked for employment on priority Basis of affected
peoples due to land acquisition for the power plant
5. Requested for a gate at the north west comer of the
project side for the convenience of the people of
nearby Villages.
6. Solicited for the early implementation of the School
and road at Islampur and a road at Ganganagar.
21   Md All Hossain Bepari    1. Thanked AES Meghnaghat Limited for taking up the
Village: Kurbanpur      project.
Mongolergaon,           2. Alleged that AES has almost filled up the branch on
Sonargaon, Narayanganj    the Meghna river on the northwest part of the plant
site, which has caused stoppage of fishing in that
branch river.
3. Expressed concern that large amount of waste will be
discharged from the power plant which will cause the
river water unsuitable for domestic use and will be
deterrent to the existence of the fish population of the
river.
4. Asked for considering the affected peoples for job in
_ _______________________ the construction site of the plant.
22.  Md Alamgir Hossain       1. Expressed realization that implementation of the
Village:Char Baiddanath   project will reduce the power shortage of the country
Balidderbazar, sonargaon,    in large extent.
Narayanganj             2. Requested AES to be concerned for the potential
pollution of the river water that might occur due to the
discharge of the waste material from the operation of
the plant into the river.
3. Requested that the affected people should get priority
in the employment with the construction contractor of
the Proiect.
23.  Md. sadar All            1. Appealed for job as all the land he had was acquired
Village: Korbanpur      by GOB for the power plant.
Sonargaon,Narayanganj
24.  Md. Mohsin Villafe:      1. Asked for early implementation of the school and the
Isiampur                road for Istampur Village as committed by AES During
Sonarqaon,NaraangAanj   the PCDP meeting of the Project,
25.  Mohammed Elahi           1. Requested for job with AES for the severely affected
Village: Islampur       peoles of Islampur who primarily depended on the land
Sonargaon, Narayangang   of the power plat for their livelihood.
2. Asked for early implementation of the school as
___________________ _= committed.



