Page  1
CONFORMED COPY    
CREDIT NUMBER 2995 BD
Project Agreement
(Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED
Dated November 14, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2995 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 14, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED (IDCOL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
hundred sixty-eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
168,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that IDCOL agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by an Agency and Administration Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and IDCOL, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to IDCOL on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Agency and Administration Agreement; and
WHEREAS IDCOL, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.   
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of IDCOL
Section 2.01. IDCOL declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance 
with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced 
management and personnel, and in accordance with its Memorandum and Articles of 
Association. 
Section 2.02. (a) IDCOL undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
IDCOL shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of IDCOL; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Agency and Administration 
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) IDCOL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
IDCOL shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and IDCOL, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objective; and (ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with IDCOL on said 
plan.
Section 2.05. IDCOL shall duly perform all its obligations under the Agency and 
Administration Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDCOL 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating, or waiving the Agency and Administration Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) IDCOL shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Agency and 
Administration Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
IDCOL shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by IDCOL of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Agency and Administration Agreement.
Section 2.07. IDCOL shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
Page  3
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) IDCOL shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of Part A of the Project and of each Investment 
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of IDCOL.
(b) IDCOL 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. IDCOL shall prepare and furnish to the Association by May 31, 1998 
and each May 31 thereafter during the execution of the Project, a business plan and 
budget for the succeeding fiscal year, for approval by the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
IDCOL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify IDCOL of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
      248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
       64145 (MCI)
For IDCOL:
Registered Office:  c/o Juris Counsel
9 Mohakali C.A. (9th Floor)
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
 Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
 642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of IDCOL, or by 
IDCOL on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its Executive Director, or by such other person or persons as its 
Executive Director shall designate in writing, and IDCOL shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/  Manuel Penalver-Quesada
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED
By  /s/  Quazi Mesbahuddin Ahmed
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Investment Projects and Subloans
Page  5
Part A:
Investment Projects
1.
(a)
IDCOL shall provide financing for each Investment Project, including the 
Subloan approved for such Investment Project, in amounts not to exceed 40 percent of 
the total cost of such Investment Project on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the 
Association, including those set forth in Part B of this Schedule and in the 
Operations Manual, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between 
the Association and IDCOL.
(b)
In addition to the financing provided by IDCOL, the Investment Enterprise 
sponsoring such Investment Project shall be required to provide financing through 
equity investment sufficient to cover at least 20 percent of the cost of the 
Investment Project and the remainder of the cost of the Investment Project through 
loans and/or export credits raised without the Borrower’s guarantee.
2.
Evaluation and Approval Criteria for Investment Projects
IDCOL shall not make any Subloan unless the Borrower and the Association are 
satisfied that:
(i)
the Investment Enterprise sponsoring the Investment Projects shall 
be able to 
arrange financing for the Investment Project on a 
limited recourse basis;  
(ii)
the Investment Project meets the Borrower’s priority plan and 
takes into account the Borrower’s policy and regulatory 
frameworks;
(iii)
the Investment Enterprise uses proven technology;
(iv)
the Investment Project is technically and financially viable and 
will have an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent;
(v)
the Investment Enterprise will have at least 20 percent of the 
total project cost provided as equity; and
(vi)
the environment and social assessment of the Investment Project 
will meet the criteria as set out in paragraph 5 of Part A of this 
Schedule. 
3.
Appraisal, Approval and Supervision of Investment Projects
(a)
IDCOL shall use its operational guidelines, including the guidelines for 
the appraisal, approval and supervision of Investment Projects, and models of the 
Implementation, Purchase and other Agreements referred to in Schedule 5 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, subject to such modifications thereof as shall be 
considered appropriate by the Borrower and the Association.
(b)
With respect to each Investment Project, IDCOL shall:
(i)
require the Investment Enterprise sponsoring the Investment 
Project to prepare a detailed project information memorandum, with 
the assistance of consultants employed by the Investment 
Enterprise under terms of reference and with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to IDCOL. Such detailed project 
information memorandum shall cover matters including: (aa) 
suitability of site; (bb) availability of inputs; (cc) 
appropriateness of, and proven experience with, the technology 
offered; (dd) project design; (ee) arrangements for detailed 
engineering; (ff) cost estimates; (gg) construction and 
procurement arrangements; (hh) arrangements for operation and 
maintenance; (ii) arrangements for compliance with environmental 
and resettlement standards; (jj) financial viability of the 
Investment Project; (kk) sources and adequacy of the proposed 
financing and the terms and conditions of such financing, 
including the contractual arrangements to be made therefor; and 
(ll) the corporate structure of the Investment Enterprise; and
(ii)
review such project information memorandum and, on the basis 
thereof, prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and 
approval, pursuant to paragraph 4 (a) of Part B of this Schedule, 
Page  6
a comprehensive appraisal report on the Investment Project.
4.
Preparation and Implementation of Investment Projects
Prior to approving a Subloan, IDCOL shall require the Investment Enterprise 
sponsoring such Investment Project to engage:
(a)
engineering experts with qualifications and experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association for the preparation of detailed designs and 
bidding documents and supervision of project implementation; and
(b)
financial experts with qualifications and experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association for the preparation of proposals for and 
assistance in mobilizing project financing.
5.
Environmental Standards for Investment Projects
 
Each Investment Project shall comply with the standards set forth in the 
"Environmental and Social Framework" document prepared by the Borrower and adopted by 
IDCOL in May, 1997.  To that end, the Borrower shall, or shall cause IDCOL to:
(a)
specify such standards in the Brochure;
(b)
require each Investment Enterprise applying for a Subloan to furnish 
evidence satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association showing that the Investment 
Project in respect of which the application has been made would comply with such 
standards, such evidence to include an environmental impact assessment and, where 
applicable, a resettlement plan for displaced populations for such Investment Project 
based on principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c)
in respect of each Investment Project, include in the Letter of Intent 
and the Implementation Agreement referred to in Schedule 5 to the Development Credit 
Agreement a suitable provision obligating the Investment Enterprise sponsoring such 
Investment Project to ensure compliance with such standards.
Part B:
Subloans
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the terms and conditions of 
each Subloan shall include:
(a)
Interest rate - the Investment Enterprise may choose between:
(i)
a variable rate equal to the prevailing six month United States 
dollar LIBOR plus a spread of 350 basis points; 
(ii)
a fixed rate based on the maturity of the Subloan and the market 
swap rate between variable and fixed interest rates for United 
States dollar debt at the time the Subloan is negotiated, plus a 
spread of 350 basis points; and
(iii)
for the purposes of subparagraph (a):
(aa)
"LIBOR" means the London interbank offered rate for six 
month deposits in United States dollars;
(bb)
"basis point" means one hundredth of one percent; and
(cc)
"market swap rate" means, at the time of loan negotiations, 
the fixed rate quoted in the relevant swap market as the 
equivalent of the United States dollar six month LIBOR.
(b)
Maturities up to 23 years, with a maximum grace period of 8 years;
(c)
The principal amount of the loan repayable by the Investment Enterprise 
shall be the equivalent of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Credit Account expressed in terms of United States dollars at the time of withdrawal; 
(d)
Principal and interest payable by the Investment Enterprise shall be 
determined in United States dollars and the payments thereof shall be the equivalent 
in Takas of the United States dollar-Taka exchange rate on the date the payments fall 
due;
Page  7
(e)
Fees; and
(f)
Interest costs during construction for Investment Projects shall be 
capitalized and would be eligible for financing out of the credit.
2.
IDCOL shall: (a) carry out an annual review of the lending terms and conditions, 
in consultation with the Association, not later than April 30 of each year; and (b) 
adjust such terms and conditions for new Subloans with effect from July 1 of such year 
as the Association and IDCOL shall have agreed on the basis of such review.
3.
No expenditures for goods or works required for an Investment Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the Subloan for such 
Investment Project shall have been approved by the Association and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the 
Association shall have received the application and information required under 
paragraph 4(a) of Part B of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan.
4.
(a)
IDCOL, when presenting a Subloan to the Association for approval, shall 
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the Association 
together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the 
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of 
the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; and (iii) such 
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Applications made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph shall be presented to the Association on or before December 31, 2000.
5.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby IDCOL shall obtain, by written consent 
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of IDCOL, the Borrower and the Association, including the right 
to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project:  (i) with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, environmental, financial, commercial, and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records; and (ii) without limitation upon the foregoing and to the 
extent relevant, in accordance with the provisions of Part A of this Schedule;
(b)
require that:  (i) the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and works shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that:  (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Association shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived 
from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with IDCOL.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Page  8
Part A:
General 
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 1996 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Preference of domestically manufactured goods and domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Investment Project Procurement 
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (b) hereof, an Investment 
Project shall be constructed under a contract awarded to an Investment Enterprise 
selected on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures or, with the 
prior approval of the Association, limited international bidding procedures, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II or paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines, 
respectively, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.13 (a) thereof.  The goods and 
works required for the construction of such Investment Project shall then be procured 
in accordance with the applicable procedures of such Investment Enterprise.
(b)
In those cases where an Investment Enterprise has not been selected in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, the goods and 
works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit required for an Investment 
Project to be constructed by such Investment Enterprise shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures, or, 
with the prior approval of the Association, limited international bidding procedures 
in accordance with, respectively, the provisions of Section II or paragraph 3.2.  With 
the prior approval of the Association, up to 20 percent of the financing approved for 
a particular Investment Project may be made available on a stand-by basis to be drawn 
down pari-passu with other financing for such Investment Project to cover 
unanticipated cost overruns.  Such stand-by financing will only be approved by the 
Association in respect of goods and works procured under international competitive 
bidding procedures or other procurement methods acceptable to the Association and 
carried out with due attention to considerations of economy and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound commercial procedures which meet the requirements of paragraphs 
1.5 and 1.6 of the Guidelines. Notwithstanding the above, no contract for goods and 
works required for an Investment Project to be constructed by an Investment Enterprise 
which has not been selected in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
subparagraph (a) hereof shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit if it shall have been awarded to suppliers and/or contractors who are also the 
sponsors or shareholders of the Investment Enterprise carrying out the Investment 
Project. 
2.
Limited International Bidding
All risks and marine insurance may be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  9
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Equipment and materials required for Part A.2 of the Project estimated to cost 
$50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $250,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part A of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract financed out of a Subloan under Part A.1 of the 
Project and estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Part B:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Part A of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  10
