Report No. PIC3325
Project Name         China-Tuoketuo Thermal Power Station Project(@#)
Region               East Asia and Pacific
Sector               Electric power and other energy
Project ID           CNPA3650
Borrower             People's Republic of China
Beneficiary          Tuoketuo Electric Power Generating Company
North China Electric Power Group Co.
Beijing Energy Management Co. (to be confirmed)
Financing Plan                                            Million US $
IBRD                                     400.0
North China Electric Power Group Co.     459.5
Inner Mongolia Electric Power Co.        236.6
Beijing International Electric Power
Development Investment Co.               104.4
Cofinancing                              100.0
Total                                   1300.5
Contact: Tuoketuo Electric Power Generation Company
Background
1.   China Power Sector. China is currently the world's second largest
producer of electricity. During the 1980-95 period, installed
generating capacity increased from 66 gigawatts (GW) to about 217 GW,
and electricity generated increased from 300 terawatt hours (TWh) to
1,007 TWh, at annual growth rates of respectively 8.3 and 8.4 percent.
Various measures to improve the efficiency of electricity use have been
introduced in attempts to reduce the need for new generating capacity,
and these measures have been successful, as is indicated by the low 0.86
elasticity of electricity demand growth to GDP growth achieved by China
during 1980-95. Nevertheless China's economic development continues to
be restrained by electricity shortages and it is estimated that
generating capacity must increase by between 15 and 20 GW per annum for
the next five years if the shortages are not to become more acute.
2.   Country Power Sector Policies.   Large-scale energy development and
improvements in the efficiency of energy supply and use are critical to
meet the fast growing demand, alleviate shortages and mitigate adverse
impacts on the environment in China. National policy emphasizes the
addition of 300 MW and 600 MW units in the system and construction of
even larger units is under consideration to achieve economies of scale
and thereby improve the efficiency of the generation system, reduce
generation costs and minimize adverse impacts on the environment.
However, new projects have lagged behind demand, largely due to
difficulties in mobilizing the large investment resources necessary. A
disturbing consequence is that some local governments, pressed by acute
shortages of electricity, are continuing to invest in large numbers of



new, small coal-fired power plants, in unit sizes of 50 MW or less.
3.   China has a sound energy/electricity conservation record among
developing countries. Various measures to improve the efficiency of
electricity use have been introduced in attempts to reduce the need for
new generating capacity, and these measures have been successful, as is
indicated by the low ratio of 0.86 for the elasticity of growth in
electricity demand to GDP growth achieved during the last decade.
However, energy/electricity conservation programs have always been based
on centrally designed energy/electricity conservation policies and
heavily-subsidized administrative programs. Faced with fiscal revenues
constraints, the government is now promoting a shift in the energy
conservation programs to rely more on market-based incentives and
introduce innovative and commercially-based contractual and financing
mechanisms.
4.   The Government is also encouraging efficient energy use through
reliance upon energy price increases. Significant progress has been made
in many ways to simplify the tariff, improve its structure and bring it
into line with costs. Consumer prices for electricity now reasonably
reflect economic costs in many provinces. However, there is a need for
price increases to meet long-run marginal costs in some provinces,
especially those where generation is mostly based on hydropower and/or
power sector reforms are progressing at a slower pace.
5.   On the institutional front, China has recently achieved four
important steps in its gradual, comprehensive power reform agenda.
First, the State Council (a) approved the creation of the National Power
Grid Company which will operate the future national (inter-regional)
transmission network; and (b) proposed for consideration by the National
People's Congress the creation of a National Power Company to be the
legal representative of the "owner" of state-owned assets. Second, the
Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP) is to be abolished and its regulatory
and policy functions transferred to the State Economic and Trade
Commission (SETC), the State Planning Commission (SPC) and the China
Electricity Council. Third, the Standing Committee of the 17th session
of the National People's Congress passed the first 'Electricity Law of
the People's Republic of China', which is scheduled to become effective
on April 1, 1996, at the same time as the creation of the National Grid
Company and restructuring of MOEP. Fourth, SPC invited 12 of the 31
companies/consortia that have sought prequalification to bid
competitively for the Liabin B BOT project in Guangxi Province.
6.   North China Electric Power Grid.   The North China regional grid was
established in 1987 by interconnection of four local grids - those of
Beijing-Tianjin-Tangshan, Southern Hebei, Shanxi, and Western Inner
Mongolia. The effective capacity of the regional grid at the beginning
of 1995 was 21.3 GW and the maximum demand experienced was 23.1 GW. The
demand on the grid is projected to increase to 34.6 GW by the year 2000
at an annual average growth rate of 10.7%. There is therefore an urgent
need to increase the supply capabilities of the grid to reduce or
eliminate power shortages.
7.   Primary energy resources are not evenly distributed throughout
China. Certain regions of the country experiencing the most rapid
-2 -



economic growth are in areas relatively poor in energy resources. An
example of this situation is the region in which high growth cities such
as Beijing, Tianjin and Tangshan are located but which has no
significant energy resources. On the other hand, the Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region has abundant coal reserves but its level of
industrialization and rate of increase in electricity demand is
relatively low. Much of the power sector planning in China is focused
on projects that will transfer electricity from areas of surplus to
those in deficit.    This planning approach is in line with the Bank's
strategies for the Chinese power and transport sectors and will reduce
the burden on the overloaded railway system as well as avoid pollution
loads that exceed local absorptive capacities in the highly
industrialized and densely populated areas.
Project Objectives
8.   The proposed project is intended to: (a) increase electricity
supply and electricity trade in north China through creation of an
independent power company to develop a mine-mouth power plant in Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region that will supply the Beijing-Tianjin-Tangshan
(Jing-Jin-Tang) grid through long term contractual arrangements; (b)
improve the efficiency of energy supply and use in the region by: (i)
introducing modern technologies and implementing effective operations
and maintenance practices and procedures in power generation, and (ii)
reducing losses in the transmission and distribution systems of Beijing;
(c) advance the power sector reform process in China by: (i) promoting
the development of electricity supplies in North China through market
oriented commercial arrangements; and (ii) encouraging non utility and
private sector investment in existing and new power sector enterprises;
(d) diversify financing sources and improve the access of power entities
to international financial markets; and (e) increase economic activity
and also improve soil conservation and desertification control in
Tuoketuo county.
Project Description
9.   The proposed project supports economic investments to augment power
supplies while at the same time improving the efficiency of energy
supply and end-use and advancing the sector reform program. The major
investment components will be in (a) power station construction, (b)
loss reduction measures on the Beijing transmission and distribution
systems; and (c) a soil conservation and desertification control
component to be implemented within the same time frame as the Tuoketuo
project.
10. The Tuoketuo Power Station. A coal-burning thermal power station
will be built in Tuoketuo county in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Region, about 70 km from the capital city Hohhot. The plant is to be
built, owned and operated by a new limited liability company in which
the shareholders will be the North China Electric Power Group Company
(NCEPGC) with 51% of the equity, Inner Mongolia Electric Power Company
(IMEPC) with 34% and Beijing International Electric Power Development
Investment Company (BIEPDIC) with 15%.   The initial capacity of the
station is to be 1200 MW (2x600 MW) but plans are for an eventual
capacity of 3600 MW (6x6OO MW). The schedule is for the first unit to
- 3 -



begin commercial operation in July of 2001 and the second in September
of the following year.
11. The station will be the first Bank-supported mine-mouth power
station in China. Mine-mouth power stations conform with the Chinese
Government/World Bank strategy for coal and electricity delivery
systems.(see 1/) The fuel will to be low-sulfur (0.47T) coal supplied
from the adjacent Zungheer mines, about 90 km from the plant site, and
delivered to the plant by rail. The project includes purchase of all
rolling stock, including locomotives, required for coal transport as
well as construction of a spur line of about 45 km in length to connect
with the main line from the mines. The first two units will consume
about 4 million tons of coal per year. A comprehensive report on tests
of coal quality and combustion characteristics conducted on samples from
different areas of the mine has been requested and is being prepared by
the primary beneficiary.
12. All power generated by the plant will be sold to NCEPGC and is
intended primarily for supply to Beijing. A power purchase agreement
between TEPGC and NCEPGC will define the terms and conditions of power
sale/purchase. The plant will be interconnected with the regional grid
at two points, one about 500 km away and close to Beijing, the other 150
km from the plant site. The transmission lines will operate at 500 kV
and will be single circuit initially, although later construction of a
second circuit is planned for each line. The lines will be built and
owned by NCEPGC and are not part of the project.
13. The turbine-generators will conform to the specifications which
have become standard in China for units of this rating. Fuel-efficiency
and other operating parameters conform with internationally accepted
practice for units of this type. The condensers will be cooled by a
closed -circuit cooling water system, equipped with hyperbolic, natural
draft cooling towers, one for each unit. Water requirements for the
plant (first phase), including cooling-tower make-up, are estimated to
be 1.1 m3 per second and will be pumped from the Yellow River, about 12
km away.
14. Boilers will be equipped with low NOx burners generating a maximum
of 417 ppm NOx. Electrostatic precipitators will remove 99.76w of the
particulates in the flue gas. Flue gas desulfurization equipment will
not be installed initially but space will be provided for their
subsequent installation if required by future environmental standards.
Transmission and Distribution Loss Reduction.
15. This second component, under the responsibility of NCEPGC, will
include:
(a) construction of two 220 kV indoor substations at Xibianmen and
Xizhimen respectively.    Xibianmen will be equipped with two 0 MVA,
220/110/10 kV transformers and Xizhimen with two 200 MVA,
220/110/10 kV transformers;
(b) addition of a third 0 MVA 220/110/10 kV transformer in the
underground Wangfujing substation, currently under construction;
- 4 -



(c) Replacement of overloaded and inefficient units in the
Beicheng and Huichengmen substations by four 50 MVA 110/10 kV
transformers;
(d) upgrading of the distribution system in the heavily loaded,
high-growth Xizhimen area. The upgrading will involve
reconductoring of insulated overhead lines (approximately 75 km),
and installation of 5 compact 10 kV transformer stations.
(e) technical assistance to NCEPGC for (i) implementing accounting
and financial management systems, and (ii) developing regional
power pooling arrangements.
16. Soil Conservation and Desertification Control. This project
component would contribute to the effort already planned in the San Bei
(Northeast, North and Northwest China) area, to arrest progressive
desertification through soil conservation techniques, establishment of
vegetative cover to combat wind erosion and improve the soil
microclimate, water retention and fertility properties. If the
component is approved by Chinese authorities, a specific action plan and
detailed budget will be developed by the Desert Research Institute which
has wide experience in the relevant problems.
Sector & Institutional Reforms
17. One of the objectives of the proposed project is to assist and
facilitate the power sector reform process in the North China region.
It will advance the power sector reform process in two main areas: (a)
development of contractual arrangements between TEPGC (the Seller) and
NCEPGC (the purchaser) that will be based on efficient commercial and
economic terms; and (b) divestiture of existing assets and/or
involvement of domestic or foreign private investors to raise additional
capital for power system expansion.
Contractual Arrangements
18. The project will provide technical assistance in establishing
TEPGC, the first independent power producer on the NCEPGC system, as a
financially autonomous and commercially oriented enterprise. The
assistance includes development of a detailed power purchase agreement
and dispatch rules that will govern the business relationships between
TEPGC (the seller) and NCEPGC (the purchaser). Once the concept of an
independent generating enterprise has been successfully demonstrated,
privately owned facilities will be more easily accepted. The power
purchase agreement developed under the proposed project will serve as
the basis for similar agreements with other non-utility and privately
owned producers as well.
19. The project will also demonstrate the viability of the purchasing
agency model, which is becoming the standard approach to unbundling
generation and transmission in many other countries. The regional grid
will purchase electricity from various generators and sell to the
distribution entities at prices that reflect the overall cost of supply.
In subsequent stages, the functions of the regional grid company would
eventually be limited to purchase of power from independent producers
- 5 -



and other power generation companies, ownership and operation of the
transmission system (including dispatch), and sale of power to the
provincial utilities. Technical assistance will be provided to NCEPGC
to develop regional power pooling arrangements that will foster
competitive electricity trade and encourage sector efficiency.
Assets Divestiture
20. IMEPC's divestiture plans under the proposed project include: (a)
establishing a limited liability company to support the sale of the
Wulashan coal-fired power plant (200 MW) to an independent Chinese
operator by the end of 1997; (b) additional equity offering of 15
million shares of Inner Mongolia Mendian Huaneng Thermal Power Company
in Shanghai (about Y4/share is expected by the underwriter for shares
with a face value of Y1/share); and (c) involving private investor(s) in
further expansion and development of the Haibowan Electric Power Company
(2x100 MW installed and 2x200 MW under development). Technical
assistance will be provided under the proposed project to carry out
preparatory work to implement IMEPC's plans for divestiture and
involvement of private investors in existing and new projects
Beneficiaries
21. The principal beneficiary will be the Tuoketuo Electric Power
Generation Company (TEPGC). As previously described, the shareholders in
that company will be the North China Electric Power Group, Inner
Mongolia Electric Power Company, and Beijing International Electric
Power Development Investment Company. TEPGC has been formally
incorporated and registered as a limited liability company.
22. NCEPGC would be the second beneficiary, if agreement is reached to
accept the proposal for funds from the project to be applied to
investments to reduce power losses in the transmission and distribution
systems in the Beijing area.
Project Costs and Financing
23. The total financing requirements (including IDC of $208 million
equivalent), are estimated at $1,300 million equivalent. The financing
required for the Tuoketuo thermal power plant component is estimated at
$1,131.8 million equivalent, including IDC of $177.3 million equivalent.
The local costs estimated at $518.6 million equivalent, IDC for both
local and foreign loans estimated at $177.3 million equivalent and
working capital estimated at $5.9 million equivalent will be provided by
equity contribution and local borrowings raised by the three
shareholders. Their equity contribution is estimated at $281.5 million
equivalent, representing percent of the total cost of the component.
The remaining financing requirements of about $420.3 million equivalent
will be covered through bond issues and borrowings by the three
shareholders proportionally to their respective shares in TEPGC. The
foreign cost, excluding IDC of $60.5 million, estimated at $430 million
will be covered by the proposed Bank loan of $330 million and commercial
cofinancing of about $100.0 million. The financing required for the
Beijing T & D component is estimated at $168.7 million equivalent,
including IDC of $30.7 million equivalent.    The foreign cost of the
- 6 -



component of $70 million will be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
The local costs estimated at $68 million equivalent and the IDC for both
foreign and local loans of $30.7 million equivalent will be covered by
self-financing from NCEPGC and loans from SDB, Beijing Municipality, and
Hebei Province.
Project Implementation
24. TEPGC will be responsible for implementation and operation of the
Tuoketuo thermal power plant component. TEPGC has been staffed with
experienced and technically strong personnel and is strongly supported
by its sponsors, the North China Electric Power Design Institute
(NCEPDI) and high caliber foreign consultants. Preparatory works
including access roads and construction power supply started in August
1996 and have been progressing satisfactorily. The bidding documents
for the procurement of the main boiler and turbine-generator packages
are scheduled to be issued in November 1996 and opened in March 1997.
The commercial operation of the first generating unit is expected in
July 2001 and the second unit in September 2002. Thus, the project
completion date would be January 2004 and the closing date of the Bank
loan would be June 30, 2004.
25. NCEPGC will be responsible for execution of the Beijing T&D
component including construction, commissioning and operation. NCEPGC
has had substantial experience in power generation, transmission and
distribution, and has been operating the North China Power Grid since
1987. Beijing Power Supply Design Institute (BPSDI) and NCEPDI will
undertake preparation of technical bidding documents, bids evaluation,
detailed construction design and supply of drawings for respectively
Xizhimen and Wangfujing and, Xibianmen. BPSDI and NCEPDI have both
design experience in 220 kV substations. Construction of the works will
be the responsibility of the construction department of Beijing
Municipal Power Supply Company which is a division of NCEPGC. The
construction department also has extensive experience in the relevant
area. The bidding documents for the items to be procured under ICB
packages are scheduled to be issued in January 1997. Completion of the
T&D component is planned for November 1999.
Environment and Resettlement
26. Environmental Aspects. In accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), the project has been assigned to Category A. The
Environmental Assessment (EA) was prepared with assistance of an
international consultant specializing in environmental issues related to
thermal power plants, and has been approved by the Inner Mongolia
Environmental Protection Agency (IMEPA), and the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA).
27. The project is a greenfield operation, located within the boundary
of Yanshanying a small village in a rural area of Tuoketuo County. The
site is approximately 70 km southwest of Huhhot City, the provincial
capital of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. Three alternative locations
for the power plant were considered. All three were satisfactory from an
environmental perspective. The selected site was closest to the ash
disposal site with the most favorable geological conditions, was most
-7 -



convenient to infrastructure (drainage, water supply, transportation
facilities etc.) and offered the best natural geologic foundation for
plant construction.
28. Key issues addressed in the EA include: air pollution, (dust,
sulfur dioxide), noise, water pollution (groundwater at the ash
disposal site, and surface water contamination of the Yellow river),
electric field strength, bird flight patterns (transmission lines),
industrial hazards and worker safety, desertification control, and
impacts of both construction and operation labor forces on the local
infrastructure and social structure. In addition, the proposed project
(2 units of 600 MW each) is the first phase of an overall program to
develop 3,600 MW at the Tuoketuo site. To anticipate any future adverse
environmental consequences, the EA examined both the immediate impacts
of the proposed project (1200 MW), as well as cumulative impacts of the
3,600 MW program. The distribution system component is mostly
rehabilitation and reinforcement of existing facilities, there are no
environmental impacts. Public safety will be improved. No PCBs
(polychlorinated biphenyls) will be utilized in the substations to be
financed, and bidding documents will note this restriction accordingly.
29. All mitigating measures (for air, water, solids, noise, electric
field etc.) incorporated in the project are designed to meet
appropriate Chinese requirements and/or World Bank guidelines, whichever
is stricter. In the absence of either, international standards or codes
of practice will be used. In addition, a soil conservation and
desertification control subcomponent of the project would contribute to
the revegetation effort currently planned. The plan calls for the
arrest of desertification through soil conservation techniques,
establishment of vegetative cover to combat wind erosion, and
improvement of soil microclimate, water retention and nutrient
properties. The overall target for Tuoketuo County is to establish a 40
per cent forest cover. Local people will be employed in the
revegetation effort, with preference given to oustees.
30. Resettlement Aspects. The project design focused on minimizing the
scope of resettlement. Where land acquisition and demolition of existing
housing are unavoidable, the resettlement plans provide for replacement
of housing, agricultural land, infrastructure, services and other
resources. They aim at improving the living conditions and at least
restoring the income of the resettlers. Both project components involve
land acquisition and/or relocation of population. Costs of land
acquisition and resettlement are estimated at Y200 million for both
components. RAPs have been prepared (power plant, ash disposal yard and
the Beijing transmission and distribution component) or will be prepared
following the completion of the design studies and population surveys
(railway connection, water supply system from Yellow River to comply
with appropriate Chinese policies and/or World Bank guidelines (OD
4.30). The participation of the population affected by the project
during the preparation of the resettlement plans has been excellent.
31. TEPGC and NCEPGC respectively contracted the Inner Mongolia Academy
of Social Science (IMASS) and the Beijing Social and Psychological
Research Institute (BSPRI) to monitor the resettlement activities and
provide an independent evaluation of resettlement. The monitoring and
- 8 -



evaluation will be based on a sample of 10 to 15 percent of affected
population. The objective of monitoring and evaluation is to ensure
that the resettlement program is implemented smoothly and that living
conditions and income of resettlers are fully restored.
Sustainability and Risks
32. Financial sustainability of the major project component will be
assured if the terms of the power purchase agreement between TEPGC and
NCEPGC are developed on sound economic principles and include
appropriate financial terms. The market for the output of the station is
guaranteed and the full cost of supply will be passed on to electricity
end-users in accordance with existing Chinese pricing policies.
Therefore, NCEPGC will have no problem in fulfilling its obligations
under the purchase agreement. Environmental and social sustainability
will be ensured by appropriate environmental management and resettlement
action plans.
33. The project will be subject to intensive risk assessment.
Experience with similar power projects in China clearly shows that:
(a) construction risks are minimal and could be addressed through
adequate preparation and supervision and by involving international
consultants in construction management; (b) market risks are minimal
because of existing shortages and sustained economic growth in the Jing-
Jin-Tang area and the north China region; and (c) environmental and
resettlement risks are manageable through preparation of environmental
and resettlement plans and monitoring procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Note:     See "China: Investment Strategies for China's Coal and
Electricity Delivery System", The world Bank, Report No. 12687-CHA,
March 8, 1995.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 8, 1996.
-9-



