Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4172 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Inner Mongolia (Tuoketuo) Thermal Power Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 26, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4172 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Tuoketuo Electric Power 
Generation Company (TEPGC, as hereinafter defined), with the Borrower’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to TEPGC a portion 
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the North China Power Group 
Company (NCPGC, as hereinafter defined)  with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NCPGC a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
(D)
The Borrower intends to obtain from external sources (collectively, the 
"Cofinanciers”) loans in an amount equivalent to one hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000) to assist in the financing part of the Project on terms and conditions 
set forth in agreements (the "Cofinancing Agreements”) to be entered into between the 
Cofinanciers and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and 
TEPGC and NCPGC respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representative of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to 
an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Category” means a category set out in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
“Complementary Investment Program” means the domestically-financed 
investments undertaken by NCPGC described in paragraph 1(b) of Part B of Schedule 2 to 
the NCPGC Project Agreement and approved by the Borrower under a proposal separate 
from the proposal for the Project. 
(c)
“IMEPC” means Inner Mongolia Electric Power Company, a state-owned 
enterprise organized and existing under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to the IMEPC 
Charter.  
(d)
“IMEPC Charter” means the charter of IMEPC, approved under Approval No. 
69/1990 issued by the Government of Borrower’s Autonomous Region of Inner Mongolia.
(e)
“IMEPC Divestiture Program” means IMEPC’s program to implement its 
divestiture plan, agreed by the Bank, as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank. 
(f)
“NCPGC” means the North China Power Group Company, a state-owned 
enterprise organized and existing under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to the NCPGC 
Charter. 
(g)
“NCPGC Charter” means the charter of NCPGC approved under Approval No. 
14/1993, issued by the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy.
(h)
“NCPGC Financial Management Development and Training Action Plan” means 
NCPGC’s plan to strengthen its financial management capabilities, prepared pursuant to 
Page  3
paragraph 3 of Part B of Schedule 2 to the NCPGC Project Agreement, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
(i)
“NCPGC Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and NCPGC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the NCPGC Project Agreement. 
(j)
“NCPGC Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) 
of this Agreement for the purposes of Part B of the Project.
(k)
“NCPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NCPGC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the 
same be amended from time to time, and the term “NCPGC Subsidiary Loan” means the loan 
provided thereunder. 
(l)
“Power Purchase Agreement” means the agreement dated December 31, 1996 
between NCPGC and TEPGC for the purchase of power generated from the power plant to be 
constructed at Tuoketuo under Part A(1) of the Project. 
(m)
“Project Agreements” means the NCPGC Project Agreement and the TEPGC 
Project Agreement, collectively.
(n)
“RAP-A” and “RAP-B” mean the Resettlement Action Plans, dated December 
25, 1996 and December 26, 1996, respectively,  for carrying out the compensation, 
resettlement or rehabilitation of all persons who are involuntarily resettled or whose 
rights to land and other assets are compulsorily acquired as a result of the carrying 
out of Parts A and B of the Project, respectively; 
(o)
 “RAP-A (2)”  means the detailed resettlement action plan for carrying 
out the compensation, resettlement or rehabilitation of all persons who are 
involuntarily resettled or whose rights to land and other assets are compulsorily 
acquired in connection with Part A(2) of the Project.
(p)
“Special Account” means either of the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and “Special Accounts” means the TEPGC Special Account and 
the NCPGC Special Account, collectively.
(q)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the NCPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
and the TEPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, collectively, “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” 
means either of the  NCPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the TEPGC Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and “Subsidiary Loan” means the subsidiary loan provided for under a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
(r)
“TEPGC” means the Tuoketuo Electric Power Generation Company, a 
state-owned enterprise organized and existing under the laws of the Borrower pursuant 
to the TEPGC Charter. 
(s)
“TEPGC Charter” means the charter of TEPGC, approved under Approval No. 
1, dated May 3, 1996, issued by the Board of Directors of TEPGC. 
(t)
“TEPGC Environmental Action Plan” means TEPGC’s environmental action plan 
for Part A of the Project dated December 2, 1996, based on the environmental impact 
assessment dated August 30, 1995,  approved by the Borrower’s National Environmental 
Protection Agency, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank. 
(u)
“TEPGC Management Development and Training Action Plan” means TEPGC’s 
plan for developing its management and technical capabilities to conduct its affairs 
as a financially autonomous and commercially oriented enterprise dated December 2, 
1996, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(v)
“TEPGC Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and TEPGC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the TEPGC Project Agreement.
(w)
“TEPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and TEPGC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
Page  4
same may be amended from time, and the term “TEPGC Subsidiary Loan” means the loan 
provided thereunder.
(x)
“TEPGC Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) 
of this Agreement for the purposes of Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred million Dollars ($400,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.  
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of Parts A and B of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars two special deposit accounts, for Parts A and B 
of the Project, respectively, in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of its 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread”, means, for each Interest Period: (A) one 
half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loan or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
Page  5
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this section 2.05, the bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause each of TEPGC and NCPGC to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
its respective Project Agreement all of its obligations therein set forth, shall take 
or cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable each of TEPGC and 
NCPGC to perform such obligations and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the portion of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(a) and (2)(a) to TEPGC and to Categories 
(1)(b) and (2)(b) to NCPGC, under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and TEPGC and NCPGC, respectively, and under terms and conditions 
which shall have been agreed by the Bank which shall include without limitation, terms 
whereby:
(i)
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan so relent shall be 
denominated 
and repayable in Dollars and shall be repaid over a 
period not exceeding 
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a 
grace period not exceeding five (5) years; 
and
 
(ii)
each Subsidiary Loan shall be charged: (a) interest on the 
principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate equal to the 
rate applicable to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; 
and (b) a 
commitment charge on the principal amount thereof not withdrawn from 
time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive either Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the TEPGC Project Agreement and the NCPGC Project Agreement 
respectively.  
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
Page  6
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by TEPGC 
and NCPGC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreements.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
TEPGC or NCPGC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the TEPGC Project Agreement or the NCPGC Project Agreement, as the case may be.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either TEPGC or NCPGC will be able to perform its obligations under the TEPGC 
Project Agreement or the NCPGC Project Agreement, as the case may be.
(c)
The TEPGC Charter or the NCPGC Charter shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of TEPGC or NCPGC, as the case may be, to perform any of its obligations under 
the TEPGC Project Agreement or the NCPGC Project Agreement, as the case may be.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of either TEPGC or NCPGC or for the 
Page  7
suspension of either of their operations.
(e)
The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any  
loan made to 
the Borrower for the financing of the Project, 
including any loan made 
under any of the Cofinancing 
Agreements, shall have been suspended, 
canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor; or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; 
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur, subject, with respect to said paragraph (e), to the 
proviso contained therein; and  (c)
the event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph 
(f)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that each of the TEPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and NCPGC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that each of the TEPGC Project Agreement and the NCPGC Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by TEPGC or NCPGC, as the case may be, and is 
legally binding upon TEPGC or NCPGC, as the case may be, in accordance with its terms; 
and
(b)
that each of the TEPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the NCPGC Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms. Section 6.03. The date 
ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Beijing
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
             PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  9
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
 (1)
Goods
(a)
under Part A
303,200,000
100% of foreign
(1)(3)(4) and(5)
expenditures, 100%
of the Project
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(b)
under Part B (1) and  63,800,000
100% of foreign 
(2) of the Project
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants'
)
100% 
services and training
) 
)
(a)
under Part A of the
    6,800,000 )
the Project
)
)
(b)
under Part B
    2,200,000 )     100%                                
of the Project 
)
(3)
Unallocated
(a)
under Part A
              of the Project
   20,000,000
(b)
under Part B
of the Project
    4,000,000
TOTAL                        400,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: 
(a)
expenditures for goods under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 
equivalent;  
Page  10
(b)
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; and 
(c)
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent and 
(d)
training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
(a)
increase electricity supply and electricity trade in China through 
creation of an independent power company and its development of a mine-mouth power 
plant to supply the Beijing-Tianjin-Tangshan (Jing-Jin-Tang) grid through long term 
contractual arrangements;
(b)
improve the efficiency of energy supply and use in the Jing-Jin-Tang 
region by: (i) introducing modern technologies and implementing effective operations 
and maintenance practices and procedures in power generation, and (ii) reducing losses 
in the transmission and distribution systems of Beijing;
(c)
advance the power sector reform process in China by promoting the 
development of electricity trade in North China through market oriented commercial 
arrangements; 
(d)
diversify financing sources, improve the access of power entities in 
China to international financial markets and encourage private sector investment in 
existing and new power sector enterprises; and
(e)
promote economic development and improve soil conservation and 
desertification control in Tuoketuo County.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
(1)
Construction of two 600 megawatt (MW) coal-fired subcritical thermal units at 
Tuoketuo in Inner Mongolia as the first phase of the Tuoketuo power station and 
provision of equipment and facilities including on-line performance monitoring systems 
to minimize coal consumption and gradually introduce advanced maintenance techniques. 
(2)
Construction of a water supply system and a railway connection of about 45 
kilometers for the first phase of the Tuoketuo power station.
(3)
Carrying out a program to strengthen the management and operation  of TEPGC, 
through the provision of expert services and training in respect of: (i) construction 
management and engineering services; (ii) training programs and computerized simulator 
systems to develop TEPGC’s capabilities in state-of-the-art plant operation and 
management; and (iii) design of and implementation of modern accounting and financial 
management systems. 
(4)
Strengthen TEPGC’s environmental management and monitoring through carrying out 
the TEPGC Environmental Action Plan. 
(5)
The carrying out of a desertification control and dryland management program in 
Tuoketuo County  to improve the environment and to provide a higher standard of living 
to local people. 
(6)
Resettlement of about 2,250 people affected by Parts A(1) and A(2) of the 
Project. 
Page  11
(7)
Carrying out a program of assistance to IMEPC for the preparation of the IMEPC 
Divestiture Program.
Part B:  
(1)
The construction of 220 kilovolt (kV) indoor substations at Xibianmen and 
Xizhimen in Beijing Municipality, equipped with two 250 megavolt - ampere (MVA), 
220/110/10kV transformers and two 200 MVA, 220/110/10kV transformers, respectively. 
(2)
Installation of one 250 MVA 220/110/10kV transformer in the Wangfujing 
substation.
(3)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the management of NCPGC through the 
establishment of accounting and financial management systems.
(4)
Resettlement of about  935 people affected by Part B(1) of the Project. * * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in  Dollars)*
January 15, 2003
 8,490,000 
July 15, 2003
 8,740,000 
January 15, 2004
 8,995,000 
July 15, 2004
 9,260,000 
January 15, 2005
 9,535,000 
July 15, 2005
 9,815,000 
January 15, 2006
10,100,000 
July 15, 2006
10,400,000 
January 15, 2007
10,705,000 
July 15, 2007
11,020,000 
January 15, 2008
11,345,000 
July 15, 2008
11,675,000 
January 15, 2009
12,020,000 
July 15, 2009
12,375,000 
January 15, 2010
12,735,000 
July 15, 2010
13,110,000 
January 15, 2011
13,495,000 
July 15, 2011
13,895,000 
January 15, 2012
14,300,000 
July 15, 2012
14,725,000 
January 15, 2013
15,155,000 
July 15, 2013
15,600,000 
January 15, 2014
16,060,000 
July 15, 2014
16,530,000 
January 15, 2015
17,020,000 
July 15, 2015
17,520,000 
January 15, 2016
18,035,000 
July 15, 2016
18,565,000 
January 15, 2017
19,110,000 
July 15, 2017
19,670,000
______________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount to be repaid, except as provided 
in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  12
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means  for the TEPGC Special Account, 
Categories (1) (a) and (2)(a), and  for the NCPGC Special Account Categories (1)(b) 
and (2)(b); 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and consultants’ services required for Parts A and B of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $15,000,000 in 
respect of the TEPGC Special Account and an amount equal to $8,000,000 in respect of 
the NCPGC Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited, with respect to the TEPGC Special Account, to an amount 
equal to $8,000,000 and, with respect to the NCPGC Special Account, to an amount equal 
to $ 6,000,000 until (i) in respect of the TEPGC Special Account and (ii) NCPGC 
Special Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed  an amount equal 
to $150,000,000 .
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the TEPGC Special 
Account or the NCPGC Special Account, as the case may be, has been duly opened, 
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the said Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the said Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have 
been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the 
said Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been 
justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the said Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  13
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the said Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for said Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category for said Special Account shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the said Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into said Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
