Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4172 CHA
Project Agreement
(Inner Mongolia (Tuoketuo) Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NORTH CHINA POWER GROUP COMPANY
Dated June 26, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4172 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NORTH CHINA POWER GROUP COMPANY (NCPGC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to four hundred million Dollars ($400,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NCPGC  
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and NCPGC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to NCPGC on the terms and conditions set forth in said NCPGC Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS NCPGC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NCPGC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and power utility practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and NCPGC shall otherwise agree, NCPGC shall carry out Part B 
of the Project in accor\1fdance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NCPGC shall carry out the obliga\1ftions set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the NCPGC Project 
Agreement and Part B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NCPGC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and NCPGC, a plan for the 
future operation of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
NCPGC on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. NCPGC shall duly perform all its obligations under the NCPGC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NCPGC shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the NCPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NCPGC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the NCPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
NCPGC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by NCPGC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the NCPGC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NCPGC
Section 3.01. NCPGC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and power 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. NCPGC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and power utility practices.
Section 3.03. NCPGC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NCPGC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
NCPGC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for 
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  (a) NCPGC shall take all necessary measures, including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or the levels of its tariffs, to ensure that 
its internal cash generation of each fiscal year during the term of any debt to be 
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its estimated debt service requirements in such 
year on all its debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of NCPGC maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “internal cash generation” means the difference between: 
(A) the sum 
of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating 
income, excluding receipts for 
consumer connection charges; and (B) the sum of 
all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, provision of 
maintenance special fund, and sales and income taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, and interest and 
other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B) expenses, 
including taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
Page  4
revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments if any) of, and 
interest and other charges, 
on debt, excluding capitalized 
interest during construction.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of Section 4.02 it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such 
valuations shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NCPGC shall earn: 
(i) for its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1998, an annual return of not less than 
8% of the average current  value of its equity; (ii) for its fiscal years ending on 
December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2000, an annual return of not less than 10% of the 
average current value of its equity; and (iii) for its fiscal year ending on December 
31, 2001, and for each of its fiscal years thereafter, an annual return of not less 
than 12% of the average current value of its equity. 
(b)
Before April 30 in each of its fiscal years, NCPGC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by NCPGC and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that NCPGC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for NCPGC’s fiscal years covered by such 
review,  NCPGC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing NCPGC’s net 
income for the 
fiscal year in question by one half of the sum 
of the current value of NCPGC’s 
equity at the beginning and at 
the end of that fiscal year.
(ii)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-in 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of NCPGC not 
allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
(iii)
The term “net income” means the sum of total operating revenues 
and net 
non-operating income less the sum of  total 
operating expenses and interest 
payments and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
(v)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (b) expenses, 
including taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(vi)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on 
a straight-line basis at a rate not 
less than 5% per annum of 
the average current gross value of NCPGC’s fixed 
assets 
in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
Page  5
Section 4.04. NCPGC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comment, by April 30 of each year, a rolling long-term financial plan containing, 
inter alia, projected income statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets 
for each of the next eight years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of NCPGC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify NCPGC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For NCEPGC:
North China Power Group Company
32 Zaolin Qianjie
Beijing
People’s Republic of China
Telex:
222818 NCPA CN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NCPGC, or by 
NCPGC on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
the General Manager or such other person or persons as said General Manager shall 
designate in writing, and NCPGC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  6
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
NORTH CHINA POWER GROUP COMPANY
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising The invitation to prequalify or bid for each 
contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Specialized equipment estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, and goods, 
which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, 
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
Page  7
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International and National Shopping 
Goods which are readily available off-the-shelf or are standard specification 
commodities and which are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of (i) international shopping 
procedures, for up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, or (ii) 
with the prior agreement of the Bank, national shopping procedures, for an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, in each case in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which (i) should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or 
must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, 
and which cost $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate or (ii) are of a 
proprietary nature, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the following:
A. Project 
Management
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of Part B of the Project, NCPGC shall 
continue to maintain a project management unit, with terms of reference, staffing and 
other resources satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for the overall 
coordination and supervision of project implementation, the supervision of procurement 
of goods and services thereunder, the overall assessment of quality and impact of Part 
B of the Project, and the preparation and furnishing to the Bank of reports and other 
information thereon.
B.
Project Implementation
1.
Part B of the Project:
In connection with the implementation of Part B of the Project, NCPGC shall: (a) 
complete the construction of 500 kilovolt (kV) transmission lines and associated sub- 
and switching stations to transmit power from the 600 megawatt (MW) units to be built 
under Part A(1) of the Project, three months prior to the commissioning of the first 
of said 600 MW units; and
(b)
no later than January 31, 2004, (i) install four 50 MVA 110/10 kV 
transformers in the Beicheng and Huichengmen substations in Beijing Municipality, and 
(ii) upgrade the distribution system in the Xizhimen area in Beijing Municipality, 
including reconductoring of insulated overhead lines (approximately 3x75 km), and 
installation of 5 compact 10kV transformer stations.
2.
Part B (4) of the Project: Resettlement
NCPGC shall ensure that Part B of the Project is implemented in accordance with 
RAP-B in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and that all people who are involuntarily 
displaced or whose right to land and other assets have been compulsorily ac quired 
under Part B of the Project shall be resettled, compensated and rehabilitated in 
accordance with RAP-B.
3.  Part B (5) of the Project: Institutional Development
NCPGC shall carry out Part B (3) of the Project in accordance with a time-bound 
action plan  acceptable to the Bank.  Without limitation upon the foregoing, NCPGC 
shall: (i) employ consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement not later than March 31, 1999 to assist NCPGC in (a) 
carrying out of the study of its organization, management and staffing included in 
Part B (3) of the Project, and (b) the development and introduction of suitable 
accounting and financial management systems under Part B (3) thereof; (ii) ensure that 
said study shall be completed and furnished to the Bank, not later than September 30, 
1999; (iii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with NCPGC on 
said study and the proposal for said systems; and thereafter, but in any event not 
later than March 31, 2001 carry out the recommendations of said study and install the 
said systems, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter; and (iv) carry 
out the NCPGC Management Development and Training Action Plan in accordance with a 
time-bound action plans acceptable to the Bank.
C.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
NCPGC shall:
1.
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank the carrying out of Part B of the Project, including (a) 
RAP-B and (b) the action plan referred to in Part B.3 of this Schedule, and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
Page  9
2.
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank semi- annual reports on or about April 30 and October 31 in each year, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to Part C.1 hereof on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts B of the 
Project, including (a) RAP-B and (b) the action plan referred to in Part B.3 of this 
Schedule, during the preceding calendar year, together with any revisions proposed to 
be made in said plan in RAP-B or said plan in order to achieve the objectives thereof 
and any measures proposed to further the objectives of Part B of the Project; and
3.
review with the Bank each report furnished to the Bank pursuant to Part C.2 
hereof and promptly introduce such revisions into the RAP-B and the action plan 
referred to in Part B.3 of this Schedule as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
take such measures to further the objectives of Part B of the Project as shall have 
been agreed with the Bank.
