Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17403-CMA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 63.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FORA
BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1998
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1998)
Currency Unit             -            Reninbi (RMB)
Y 1.00                                US$0.12
US$1                                  Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD              -      Burden of Disease
BOF              -      Bureau of Finance
BOH              -      Bureau of Health
CAS              -      Country Assistance Strategy
CEA              -      Cost-effectiveness Analysis
CEM              -      Country Economic Memorandum
CIRP             -      County Health Resource Plan
CHSI                    Center for Health Statistics and Information
CMS              -      Cooperative Medical System
(refers to system of financing healthi care)
CTH              -      Central Township Hospital
DALY             -      Daily Adjusted Life Year
EAP              -      East Asia and Pacific
EPI              -      Expanded Program on immunization
EPS              -      Epidemic Prevention Station
FLO              -      Foreign Loan Office
GE               -      Grant Equivalent
ICB              -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA              -      International Development Association
IDD              -      Iodine Deficiency Disorders
IEDC             -      infectious and Endemic Disease Control (project)
LIB              -      Limited International Bidding
MCH              -      Matemal and Child Health
MFA              -      Medical Financial Assistance
MIS              -      Management Information System
MOF              -      Ministry of Finance
MOH              -      Ministry of Health
NCB              -      National Competitive Bidding
NEP              -      National Expert Panel
PIP              -      Project Inplementation Plan
QAG              -      Quality Assurance Group (of World Bank)
QHP              -      Qinba Health Program
OPD              -      Outpatient Department (of hospital)
PMO              -      Project Management Office
RMC              -      China Resident Mission
SDR              -      Special Drawing Right
SPC              -      State Planning Commission
SOE              -      Statement of Expenditure
THC              -      Township Health Center
UNICEF           -      United Nations Children's Fund
WHO              -      Wornld Health Organization
Vice President       Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager      Maureen Law, EASHN
Task Manager         Janet Hohnen, EASHN



CHINA
BASIC EEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ................1
A.    Project Development Objective .........................................................,. 2
1.  Project Development Objectives                           .2
B. Strategic Context                                    .2
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project  .  2
2.   Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy                    .2
3.    Main Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices  .4
C. Project Description .5
1 . Project Components                                                                  .5
2.    Key Policy and institutional Reforms Supported by the Project       .9
3.  Benefits and Target Population                           .9
4.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements .10
D.    Project Rationale ...................................................             12
1.    Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection .12
2.    Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Development Agencies .15
3.    Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Proposed Project Design .15
4.    Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .17
5. Value Added of Bank Support .17
E. Project Analyses .18
1. Economic Analysis .18
2. Financial Analysis .20
3. Technical Analysis .21
4. Institutional Analysis .22
5. Social Assessment .23
6.  Environmental Assessment .26
7. Participatory Approach .26
F.    Sustainability and Risks................................................................................................26
1. Sustainability .26
2. Critical Risks .29
3.  Possible Controversial Aspects .30



G.  Main Loan Conditions .....................                                              30
1.    Effectiveness Conditions ..................... 30
2.   Other Conditions ..................... 30
H.    Readiness for Implementation .....................                                    31
I.     Compliance with Bank Policies ..................... 31
List of Annexes
Annex 1:      Project Design Summary .............................. 32
Annex 2:      Detailed Project Description .............................. 38
Annex 3:      Estimated Project Costs ..............................                        56
Annex 4:      Economic Analysis ..............................                              58
Annex 5:      Financial Summary .............................. 74
Annex 6:      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .............................. 75
Annex 7:      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .............................. 83
Annex 8:      Documents in the Project File .............................. 84
Annex 9:      Statement of Loans and Credits .............................. 85
Annex 10:     China at a Glance ..............................                              87
IBRD MAP No. 29462



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Health, Nutntion and Population Sector Unit
Project Appraisal Document
China
Basic Health Services Project
Date:                          April 30, 1998                 Task Team Leader:              Janet Hohnen
Country Manager/Director:      Yukon Huang                    Sector Manager:                Maureen Law
Project ID: CN-PA-3566         Sector: BNP                   Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument:            SIL                            Program of Targeted            [X] Yes        [] No
Interventions:
Project Financing Data                [ ]  Loan    [XI   Credit    [I   Guarantee    []   Other [Specify
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount SDR: 63.0 million ($85.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms:                              [    Multicurrency        [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):       10               [    Standard Variable   [   Fixed                [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:          35
Commitment fee:    .        0.50%
Service charge:             0.75%
T         ..................................................... w.. ~._. ... . ... . ... .
Financing plan (US$m): 129.2 million
Source                                                            Local                Foreign             Total
Government                                                         44.2                    -.-              44.2
IDA                                                                73.0                   12.0               85.0
Total                                                             117.2                   12.0              129.2
................... .................................... ........................................ .,.......................      ..................................................
Borrower:              The People's Republic of China
Responsible agency:    Ministry of Health
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):        1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Annual    9.6    24.1    21.7         16.6      4.8      4.6      1.8      1.8
Cumulative    9.6    33.7    55.4        72.0    76.8       81.4    83.2    85.0
Project Implementation Period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date:    August 31, 1998.              Expected closing date:  June 30, 2005



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 2
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives: (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators)
The project would assist the Govermment to achieve sustainable health improvement for the populations of
poor rural counties through:
* improved allocation and management of health resources
* upgrading of rural health facilities
* improved quality and effectiveness of health services and programs
* increased risk sharing and affordability of essential health care for the poor
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
1.1    The Project's development objective advances two strands of the World Bank's assistance strategy
for China. These are:
(a) Poverty alleviation and promotion of human development by meeting the basic health needs of the
rural poor, as noted in the CAS (Document No. 16321-CHA, February 25, 1997) discussed with
the Board on March 18, 1997, and reaffirmed in the CAS Progress Report, to be discussed with
the Board on May 28, 1998; and
(b) Improved public funding of essential social infrastructure through reform of the health finance
system, as recommended by the Bank's sector study, "Financing Health Care: Issues and Options
for China" (in China 2020 Series, September 1997).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    China made outstanding progress in raising the overall health status of its population during the
1960s and 1970s, as shown by reduction in infant, child and maternal mortality and increased life
expectancy. This progress was much greater than would have been predicted from the country's economic
progress during that period. However, for the 15 year period from 1980-1995, despite accelerating growth
in GDP and personal income, there is evidence that, compared with progress in other countries, overall gain
in health status has slowed relative to economic progress. The main contribution to the slow in growth
health status improvement comes from poor rural areas, as shown by the differences in health indicators
between rural and urban populations and among geographic regions of the country.
2.2    China's early health gains were associated with improved basic living conditions for the rural
masses and establishment of a three-tiered health system (village, township and county level), which
emphasized prevention (often through community action) and accessible primary health care provided by
barefoot or rural doctors who were supported by the collective work unit. Declining public support of
health programs and reduced community financing of health services were unintended effects of the
economic reforms which began at the end of the 1970's. Between 1986 and 1993 the estimated share of
govermment spending on health declined from 36 percent to 16 percent. In 1993 this represented about 3.8
percent of GDP, which is a very low proportion compared with other countries.
2.3    Rural communities lag far behind urban areas in their financial access to health care. In 1993 it
was estimated that the average per capita annual health spending (public and private) was 110 RMB. But
the average for rural areas was 60 RMB per capita compared with 235 RMB per capita for urban areas.
In addition, in rural areas the proportion of health expenditure from public funds is much less than in urban



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 3
China                                                                 Basic Health Services Project
areas. Per capita health expenditure in the officially designated poverty counties is less than half the
national average, but 80 percent of this expenditure (twice the national average) is out of pocket. Even in
poor counties where government revenues are increasing, public expenditure on health has not kept pace
and in many areas has been declining both as a proportion of total government expenditure and on a per
capita basis. Rural health services have experienced increasing problems of coverage and utilization,
quality, efficiency and financial viability. The validity of the oft quoted statement that "poverty leads to ill-
health and ill-health leads to poverty" is borne out by specific studies and by field visits in poor counties.
2.4    At present, health facilities in most rural areas are planned and staffed in response to higher level
norms or by decisions for individual facilities, which contribute to duplication and inefficiency. There has
been no strong mechanism for population-based or local area planning or for allocation of resources
according to health priorities. The limited govemment funds reaching the townships from higher levels are
mainly earmarked for facility improvement (requiring local matching funds) and staff salaries (requiring
local supplements). Almost all non-wage operating funds must also be generated locally. As a result,
services are provided and priced in an effort to maximize revenue for the survival of the individual health
facilities (including support of retired staff), rather than to provide health benefits or meet client needs.
This situation encourages excessive or inappropriate services and diagnostic tests and overprescribing of
medicines. Those who cannot afford to pay these costs often do not seek health care; and important public
health programs and functions have been neglected. Referral and supervision linkages between health
facilities at different levels are often weak and the facilities may be competing for clients. Funds are often
not available for basic maintenance of facilities, but many equipment items are purchased and used to
increase hospital income.
2.5    Staffing of township healti facilities is usually decided by assignment of health school graduates
from higher levels or by local recruitment. The director of a rural hospital or health center generally does
not have discretion to decline staff assignments. Health authorities report that the overall quality of staff
has declined in poor areas due to retirement of experienced staff, and the preference of successful graduates
for higher level health services, or for private practice in more prosperous communities. Supervision and
inservice training in rural health facilities have also declined due to loss of funding and weak coordination
among facilities.
2.6    The structural and financial difficulties facing the rural health sector, including loss of capacity in
monitoring and assessment of health problems, have left the health bureaus ill equipped to control
recognized public health problems, to respond to demographic and disease trends, or to understand the
changing communication pattems of the community and their rising expectations with respect to service
content and quality, In better-off areas there has been an increase in private sector health services, staffed
by retired health service workers and by new graduates who have paid fees to attend either government or
private schools. There is still very limited understanding of the nature and size of this private sector
growth.
2.7    The issues noted here have been widely documented by Chinese analysts and many were
summarized in the 1997 sector study, "Financing Health Care: Issues and Options for China," prepared by
the World Bank with assistance of national experts and the Ministry of Health (MOH). The key study
recommendations applicable to the rural health sector are to:
* Strengthen public health programs.
* Ensure essential services for the poor.
* Reform prices and provider payment mechanisms.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 4
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
* Control investments and improve regional planning.
* Promote risk pooling through community financing in rural areas.
Government Strategr
2.8   In January 1997, the State Council of the People's Republic of China (PRC) released its Decision
Paper on Health Reform and Development, setting out the major priorities in the health sector to the year
2010. Provincial and lower level governments have prepared plans to implement these policies. For the
rural health sector the key national strategies are to:
•  Increase the government budgetary allocation for healt, commensurate with overall economic
development.
* Improve public funding for prevention and basic care, including township hospital subsidies,
especially for those areas lagging behind.
*  Support upgrading and maintenance of health facilities based on regional planning principles.
*  Reestablish cooperative arrangements for health financing in rural areas.
*  Improve personnel policies in the health sector, including banning recruitment of unqualified staf,
recertification of professional health workers, rural placements for urban hospital staf, and
improved supervision.
3. Main sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1    The project is regarded by the Government and the Bank as a major initiative to test and
demonstrate the implementation of national priorities in rural health sector reform for poor areas (listed
above in para 2.8), with the goals of regaining lost momentum in health status improvement among the
rural poor, and improving the effectiveness, efficiency and accessibility of services for this group. (The
urban health sector is outside the scope of the project, although the Bank has supported government efforts
in this area through project investments and non lending services.)
3.2    The project addresses the key govermment strategies through a policy framework (para C.2, and
Appendix 1 of Annex 2) and investments to improve service coverage, access and impact. The project
supports a comprehensive approach to sector reform in the participating counties, within the bounds of
national policy and stakeholder engagement, with provision to respond to further anticipated reform
initiatives, for example, in relation to the health workforce, the regulation of drug use and the removal of
price distortions. The project aims to strengthen public finance and leadership in providing health
programs for the poor, while recognizing that the role of govermnent will need to adjust to the growing
private capacity for health service delivery.
3.3    The table below summarizes the project's strategic choices associated with the major issues for the
rural health sector.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 5
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
Inadequate public financing in rural  * Undertakings by participating counties to maintain or
health.                              increase government funds for public health and for
township level health programs.
Inefficient investment in health sector  * Prepare and implement a County Health Resource Plan
infrastructure.                       (CHRP) in each county.
Need to improve service capacity within    * Upgrade health facilities and services, based on
an adequate plamning framework.       adjusted roles within the CHRP.
Low service quality and effectiveness.  * Inplement cost-effective interventions to target the
main health problems of the poor.
Basic services not affordable by the poor.  * Improve the affordability of priority health programs
for the general population.
* Establish system to improve funding of essential
services for the very poor.
Lack of health insurance in rural areas.    a Establish Cooperative Medical System (CMS)
Schemes.
C: Project Description
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for detailed description and Annex 3 for cost estimates)
The project has two parts, described separately in the following table. Part I, the main Basic
Health Services Project (IDA US$70 million equivalent), will be implemented in a total of 71 counties in
seven provinces. Part II is the Qinba Health Program (QHP; IDA US$15 million equivalent) for the 26
counties in the Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (Ln. 4187-CHA/Cr. N028-CHA). The QHP
objectives and rationale are the same as for Part I, but the scope of activities is limited primarily to priority
health interventions and the Medical Financial Assistance (MFA) Program.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 6
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
PART I. BASIC IIEALTII SERIVICES
Project activities are grouped into three county level components, covering: A.
Improved Planning, Management and Health Infrastructure; B. Inproved
Health Service Quality and Effectiveness; C. Increased Affordability of Health
Services; and a fourth, Component D, for Project Coordination and Support by
provincial and central levels.
A.    Improved Planning. Management and Health Infrastructure
Al.  ImprovedHealthSectorPlanning. This subcomponent supports      Institution       0.8   0.7
implementation of the CHRP, through funding of the incremental costs of the    building
planning unit of each county health bureau, including: (i) locai training and
experience exchange for health planners; (ii) progress review through reports
and site visits; and (iii) technical support to prepare annual workplans.
A2.   Upgrading of Township Health Facilities. Based on revised service   Physical  49.3  46.0
functions and standards, defined in the CHRP, this subcomponent will
construct or rebuild and equip about 1,000 township health centers (THCs) and
referral level central township hospitals (CTHs) and institute arrangements for
maintenance and repair. The project will fund construction costs, equipment,
training and supervision. This subcomponent will be implemented by county
health bureaus with technical supervision by county public works agencies and
higher level bureaus.
A3.   ImprovedManagementInformationSystemL This subcomponent    Institution          2.8   2.6
will improve the collection and use of information for planning and monitoring   building
health programs and project progress, through: (i) improvements to the current
reporting system; (ii) surveys; and (iii) limited additional indicators for project
monitoring. The project will fund equipment, software development, training in
data management, analysis and use, survey costs, supervision and technical
support. This subcomponent will be implemented by the county health bureau,
with technical support from prefectural and provincial health bureaus, and
from the Center for Health Statistics and Information (CHSI) in the Ministry of
Health.
B.    Improved Health Service Quality and Effectiveness
This component will improve the quality and effectiveness of the township and
village health programs in the project areas through two subcomponents:



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 7
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
B 1.   Improved Health Service Delivery. This subcomponent will:     Policy,           7.7   7.2
(i) establish effective supervision, service and referral relationships between  Institution
county, township and village levels; (ii) implement standard case management   Building
for common and serious health problems, and procedures for infection control
and X-ray safety; and (iii) pilot the use of essential drug lists to reduce
dangerous and unnecessary prescribing. This component will be preferentially
implemented in townships where CMS schemes are set up (see C1 below). The
project will fund the development and introduction of policies and procedures,
staff training, clinical supervision and technical support.
B2.   Priority Health Interventions. The project will improve the coverage  Policy,   21.9  20.4
and utilization of selected cost-effective health interventions, targeting  Institution
important health problenus in the project areas. Priority will be given to  building
improving matemal and child health (MCH), tuberculosis control and
immunization programs, with interventions for other diseases of local
significance supported if these three programs are already active (see Annex 2,
para 21). This subcomponent will be implemented by the county health bureau
through township and village health services. The project vvill fund baseline
assessments, some equipment, training, health education, and technical and
program support. As a result, these priority services will be provided at a
reduced cost to the users.
C.    Increased Affordability of Health Services
This component will introduce risk sharing for health care costs and reduce
financial barriers to essential services for the very poor.
Cl.   Cooperative Medical System (CMS). This subcomponent will help    Policy,        10.1   9.4
townships to establish risk sharing schemes, based on criteria and guidelines    Institution
acceptable to IDA, begimiing slowly and expanding according to experience.    Building
The project will fumd start up costs, such as baseline analysis, scheme design,
comrnunity mobilization and management development, and seed funds to
promote initial participation. The county health bureau will supervise and
monitor the schemes, with technical support from provincial health bureau.
C2.   Medical Financi.alAssistance (MFA) Progranm  A MFA Program     Policy,           5.4   5.1
will be established in each township participating in the project, as a means to   Institution
reimburse service providers in whole or part payment for essential preventive    Building
services and inpatient care for the poorest five percent of households, according
to eligibility criteria acceptable to IDA. The fimd will be managed at township
level and supervised by the county health bureau. The project will fimd start
up and management costs of the program and services for eligible families.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 8
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
D.    Project Coordination and Suppor
Through this component the participating provinces and national level agencies  Institution  9.2   8.6
will: (i) monitor and supervise all aspects of the project, including financial  Building,
aspects; (ii) provide technical support to project implementing units; (iii)  Project
appraise proposals for the second group of counties; (iv) conduct investigations  Managemnt
related to project progress or healti problems in the project areas; and (v)
analyze and disseminate the project experience. The project will fund training
and technical assistance to increase capacity at central and provincial levels,
including formation of a national expert panel; and the costs of the project
management and SuPervision.
PartL Basic Health Services Sub l_ ___   107.2  100.0
PART II. Ql1NBA 1HEALTH PRROGRAME
Project activities are grouped into three components at county level, covering
health service delivery, health service utilization and project coordination and
support. The objectives are consistent with those of the related sections of Part
I of the project, with similar implementation arrangements.
A.    Health Service Deliverv. This component has three subcomponents:    Policy,     16.4  74.9
(i) MCH; (ii) Inunization; and (iii) Priority Disease Interventions, primarily  Institution
tuberculosis control, but including childhood deworming, control of iodine  Building
deficiency and other diseases of local significance.
B.    Health Service Utilization. This component would set up a MFA  Policy,           4.2  19.2
Program, as described above for Part I C2, to subsidize the cost of essential    Institutional
health services to the poorest 20 percent of families in the project areas.
C.    Project Coordination and Support. This component would involve  Project          1.3   5.9
support for MOH in monitoring, supervision, financial management and  Managemnt
technical assistance for the project, as well as coordination at the provincial,
prefecture and county levels.
Part II of the project will fund limited civil works, immunization and medical
equipment, vehicles for supervision and emergency services, vaccines, training
and supervision. It will also fimd management costs and services for poor
families under the MFA P m.                                                      
PartIL QinbaHealthPro ramSubtotal                                                     21.9  100 0
PROJECT TOTAL                                                                       129.2  100.0
Note:  1/ Figures are a percentage of each subcomponent by Project Parts I or 11.
Differences due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 9
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As mentioned above (para A.3.2), Part I of the project will be implemented within a policy framework,
established by the government and acceptable to IDA, which identifies the key policy reform commitments
of the county and provincial govenmments, selected from the national policy priorities (para A.2.8 above),
and the measures for monitoring progress in implementation (see Annex 2, Appendix 1). The selected
policies are:
* Increased budgetary allocations for the health sector, particularly for preventive programs and for
basic health services at township and village levels.
*  Use of regional health planing principles to guide investnent in the sector.
* Ban on recruiting of non-qualified health personnel.
* Integrated fuictioning of the county-township-village (three tiered) health system.
*  Urban hospital support of rural health facilities.
* Recertification of rural health workers.
*  Government financial support and oversight of CMS schemes, which will be accountable to the
local commurity.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target Population and Benefits for the Target Group
3.1    The project will provide improved health programs for an estimated 45 million people in 97
designated poverty counties of ten poor provinces in China. Part I will cover a population of about 32
million in 71 counties from six provinces: Anhui, Gansu, Guizhou, Henan, Qinghai, and Shanxi, and the
municipality of Chongqing (referred to as seven provinces). Part II (QHP) will benefit about 13 million
people living in 26 of China's poorest counties in two provinces, Shaanxi and Sichuan, and in the Ningxia
Autonomous Region.
3.2    The primary project beneficiaries are poor families, who will be targeted in three ways, through:
(i) the selection of townships and villages of designated poverty counties as the project areas; (ii) support of
priority health interventions for conditions that particularly affect the poor; and (iii) specific initiatives to
improve affordability of these priority programs, as well as reducing financial barriers to other essential
services, through cooperative financing arrangements and through a MFA Program to reduce the cost of
services for the poorest families.
3.3    The project will assist all families in the project areas to receive improved basic health care, with
particular benefits for women and children, for those with other health conditions amenable to the key
interventions supported by the project (such as tuberculosis and cataract) and for those eligible for medical
financial assistance. For example, in the first group of 28 counties in Part I, there will be an estimated 1.1
million women and children eligible for MCH care, 200,000 patients for tuberculosis treatment, 45,000
newborn children for helpatitis B immunization, 80,000 people for cataract surgery, and 400,000 school
children for dewomiing (see summary table in Annex 2, Appendix 1). The QHP will provide MCH care to
an estimated 102,000 mothers and children, immunization for over six million children, tuberculosis
treatment to some 7,800 patients, and deworming of some 250,000 school children.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 10
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
Institutional Benefits
3.4   Participating counties will gain the following benefits from the project:
(a) Improved competence of the health workforce at township and village level;
(b) Improved capacity and experience of county governments and especially the county health bureaus
to plan and manage health sector investments and programs;
(c) Increased efficiency and effectiveness of resource use in the health sector; and
(d) Technical and financial assistance in implementing and monitoring their rural health policy
reforms.
3.5    The main benefit to prefectural, provincial and national level agencies will be capacity building to:
(i) provide technical support to the project areas; (ii) monitor and evaluate progress in policy and project
implementation; (iii) conduct specific investigations on issues arising during the project; (iv) disseminate
lessons to other areas; and (v) contribute to further policy analysis and development.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1   Implementation. The project will be implemented over six years, beginning early in FY99,
although activities eligible for retroactive financing began in 1998. The primary project areas are the
participating counties; the prefectural, provincial and national levels have responsibility to support and
supervise the counties, to monitor and report progress in implementation and to confirm that all guidelines
and conditions for project participation have been met by the lower levels.
4.2   Part I counties will join the project in two groups. The project was appraised on the basis of
proposals prepared by all seven provinces and the first group of 28 counties (four in each province), in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to IDA. Each of these counties also prepared a CHRP, which was
reviewed by the project technical group, approved by the provincial planning commission and formally
adopted by the county government, according to guidelines acceptable to IDA. The CHRP covers all rural
health investment in the project period, including that supported by the project. The second group of 43
counties for Part I has been selected; each will prepare a CHRP and project proposal along the lines
established for the first group, and each will be appraised in accordance with the guidelines and steps used
for the first group. The proposals of all Part II counties have been appraised.
4.3    National Level Implementation. MOH will be responsible for overall coordination of project
implementation and conduct of national level activities. MOH has formed a Project Leading Group chaired
by a Vice Minister with representatives of the Foreign Loan Office (FLO) and the Departments of Finance
and Planning, Medical Administration, Disease Control, Maternal and Child Health, the National Office of
Endemic Disease Control, and the Center for Health Statistics and Information. FLO will act as secretariat
of the Leading Group and will operate the national level project management office (PMO) jointly with the
Department of Finance and Planning. Assurances were given at negotiations that the Project Leading
Group and PMO will be maintained throughout the project period, with terms of reference, staffing, and
resources acceptable to IDA.
MOH will establish a national expert panel (NEP), consisting of three expert groups (one for each
technical component of the project) with membership from government, research units and universities.
This panel will report to MOH. The chief functions of the expert panel are to assist MOH in: (i) providing
technical assistance and training for the provinces and counties; (ii) periodic monitoring of progress
through review of project indicators and other information provided in the progress reports; (iii) participate
in the annual review of action plans for the next year; and (iv) provide an evaluation report at the mid-term



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 11
China                                                            Basic Health Senices Project
and completion of the project. Assurances were given at negotiations that the NE-P will be established as
a condition ofeffectiveness and will be maintained throughout the project, with terms of reference,
membership and resources acceptable to IDA.
4.4   Provincial Level lEmplementation. The major management and coordination of county project
activities will be the responsibility of the provincial government, primarily through the provincial bureau of
health (BOH), under the guidance of the central level PMO and NEP, and a Project Leading Group,
composed of high level representatives of Health, Finance, Planning and other related bureaus. A Project
Expert Group, with members from the health bureau and related institutions, will provide technical support
and supervision. Each participating health bureau will maintain a PMO, under the direction of the Project
Director, to handle the logistics of implementation, including procurement and disbursement, preparation of
workplans, progress monitoring and reporting, and coordination with the expert and leading groups and
other tasks as needed. Assurances were given at negotiations that each participating province will
maintain a PMO, and each Part I province will maintain a Project Expert Group, throughout the project
period, each with terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to IDA.
4.5    Annual action plans will be prepared for project activities to be carried out by each level. The
provincial and central level plans for the following year will be provided to IDA for review by November
15 of each year, and implementation will take into account IDA's comments and recommendations. The
first action plans, for 199:8, were reviewed and approved during appraisal.
4.6    County Level Inmplementation. Following the pattern of higher levels, project implementation in the
counties is the responsibility of the BOH, with guidance from provincial level and from the county leading
group. The project office will be established in the count health bureau. Assurances were given at
negotiations that each county will maintain a project office throughout the project period, with terms of
reference, staffing and resources acceptable to IDA. Each county's annual action plan will be reviewed
by the provincial project office and expert groups. The provincial authorities will report the findings of the
review to MOH, with assurance that the county plans meet project guidelines and requirements.
4.7    At county and towvnship level, provision has been made for a balanced and coordinated
implementation of the diflerent subcomponent activities, to help ensure synergy of benefits. IDA and the
Borrower have agreed that in any Part I participating county at least 25 percent of project expenditures will
be made in Component B (Service Improvement) and that no county will expend more than 50 percent of
project funds in civil workcs and equipment. Each participating county is expected to commit to the full
package of activities, covering physical and service improvements, financing arrangements and reporting
obligations, and the counties will be responsible for confirming to the provincial authorities that the
townships are in compliarnce with these requirements.
4.8   FinancialManagement. (See Annex 6 for detailed description) As for other IDA supported
health projects, financial management will be the responsibility of the PMO in MOH and the BOH at each
level, and of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Bureaus of Finance (BOF) at each level. There will be
one central level special account and one special account for each of the ten participating provinces.
Project accounts will be managed by the BOF at each level.
4.9    Claims and Disbursement. The project will use the same arrangement as in other projects for
submission and validation of claims through the project office at each level, with review by the BOF at
each level before being paLssed to the level above. Funds are transferred from level to level through
commercial banks nominated by the BOF at each level.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 12
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
4.10   Auditing and Reporting. The project accounts and accounting reports will be audited by the State
Audit Administration or its local offices, in accordance with standard practice in China, which has been
found acceptable to IDA.
4.11   Procurement. Responsibility for procurement will rest with the PMO at each level. The central
PMO will review procurement plans prepared at provincial level, manage central level procurement of
equipment and technical services, supervise lower level procurement activities, and provide training and
post review of local contracts and transactions. The bulk of equipment required for township level health
facilities and project offices will be procured by the provinces, using national bidding procedures
acceptable to IDA. Provincial PMOs and designated civil works experts will assist the counties in planning
and executing the upgrading of township health facilities, using guidelines prepared for the project. Local
technical assistance plans for each year will be reviewed by MOH and reported to IDA, as part of the
annual action plan. It is expected that 25 percent of local contracts would be subject to post review.
(Details of the procurement arrangements are in Annex 6.)
4.12   Monitoring and Evaluation. The project will be monitored through twice yearly progress reports
containing essential data on the implementation of the project components and project management, with
each level accountable to the level above. Township implementing units will report to the county health
bureau, which will analyze and consolidate township data for the county progress report. County reports
will be submitted through the prefecture to provincial level, where they will be collated and summarized
and included in the provincial report to MOH. The reports will be based on the targets and activities
identified in the annual action plans, including the key indicators agreed at negotiations (listed in Annex 2,
Appendix 2-3), and a summary of financial data. MOH will consolidate and analyze the provincial reports
and contribute additional summary information about central level activities, including reports from the
expert panel, for review by the Project Leading Group and IDA. The main report will be the annual
progress report, which will be provided to IDA by April 30 in the following year. A shorter report,
focusing on progress in the first six months of the calendar year (the first half of the annual action plan)
will be prepared by November 15 of each year, and will be reviewed along with the action plans for the
following year. The project reporting arrangements, including the indicators andformats to be used,
were confirmed at negotiations.
4.13   Supervision. Baseline data for the project monitoring indicators will be collected and reported by
the time of the first supervision mission, and data for these indicators will be reported in the annual
progress report. This monitoring will be supplemented by supervision visits, conferences and progress
reviews led by the national expert panel. The government's central agencies (MOH, MOF and State
Planning Commission [SPC]) and Bank staff will jointly conduct two supervision missions per year, unless
it is agreed otherwise.
4.14   Progress toward achievement of development objectives will be assessed through a Mid-term
Review scheduled for September/October 2001, and through a project completion review which will be the
joint responsibility of the Borrower and IDA.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Part I. Basic Health Services
Project design was finalized through extended dialogue with the Government and reflects the main
priorities and policies of the three central agencies, MOH, MOF and SPC, and IDA, adjusted through



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 13
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
interaction with national and international experts and the participating provinces. Some options on design,
scope and financing could not be accepted by one or more of the parties concerned. The final product is
considered the most feasible design in the present context. A summary of alternatives considered for Part I
and reasons for rejection is given here:
1.1   Project compo:nents the same, but without the Cogntv Health Resource Plan (CBRP). The first
project proposals did not include CHRP, but the need was recognized during preparation for a mechanism
to guide county governments in resource allocation for the county as a whole, including both project and
non-project funds, especially through defing the roles and relationships of rural health facilities. This is
achieved through the CHRP.
1.2    All components tie same but without the Priort Health Interventions (subcomponent B2). This
option was rejected because without this subcomponent the project would not have been able to help the
counties explicitly target and monitor cost-effective measures against some major health problems of poor
communities. Inclusion of this subcomponent assists county health planners to improve the impact of their
programs on health problems and health status, with better targeting of health expenditures, and provides a
way to help restore public: funding of high priority health programs.
1.3   The project implemented in a larger number of counties. Recent IDA supported health projects in
China have covered 300 or more counties. It was agreed to confine the project to a smaller number of
counties in view of the complexity of the project, the need for adequate technical and management support,
and the demonstration poltential of the project. In this respect the project is more like the earlier Integrated
Regional Health Planning; Project (Health HI; Cr. 2009-CHA) which, in only three prefectures, each of 3-4
million population, successfully demonstrated the principles of regional health planning which have now
been widely disseminated to other areas and adopted as national policy.
1.4    All project counties to join the project at the same time. This was rejected in favor of phased entry,
to provide a learning experience for all concerned with the first group. Central and provincial officials and
experts have been able to give full attention to the smaller number of counties in preparing the first group,
to test and revise the preparation guidelines and procedures, to decentralize the responsibility for
preparation and appraisal of counties joining later, and through this process build competence and
ownership among those groups who will have the major support role in project implementation.
1.5   IDA funds disbursed as a supplement to the total county health budget on the basis of an agreed
county health plan and. satisfactory govemment allocation for health. This option was initially suggested
by IDA but was not considered workable because: (i) it would have required a major change from the way
the agencies manage Bank supported projects in China; (ii) it would have been very difficult to supervise;
and (iii) there would have been inadequate safeguards against imbalance of investment.
1.6    No formal linla;e of the project to national policies to increase public funding of rural health
programs. The Borrower and IDA agreed to include this linkage in order to: (i) help support the
commnitments of the State Council, provinces and counties to new health development policies; (ii) provide
the national level with an opportnity to monitor closely the actual experience of policy implementation;
and (iii) improve the long-term sustainability of project benefits.
1.7   Several options fbr allocation of IDA funds were proposed in order to increase flexibility of fund
use, within the agreed project scope, to improve incentives for good project performance and to assist very
poor counties to join the lproject, but these could not be accommodated within present Government and
Bank policies and procedures. These options included:



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 14
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
(a) Competitive entry of counties (subprojects) into the project, based on quality of proposals and
commitment to reform;
(b) A mechanism for linking the level of continued support to a county to the level of achievement
reached by the mid-term of the project; and
(c) Provision by MOF and provincial finance bureaus of some relief of the project financing
arrangements for the poorest counties. The team proposed this measure when informed by the
government that some very poor counties could not participate because they could not meet the
onlending and repayment conditions for the IDA credit.
Part 11. Oinba Health Program (QHP)
1.8   The QHP was identified in November 1995 as a component of the Qinba Mountains Poverty
Reduction Project (QMPRP; Ln. 4187-CHA/Cr. N028-CHA), following the earlier model of the Southwest
Poverty Reduction Project (Ln. 3906-CHA/Cr. 2744-CHA) which included both health and education
components. At the Government's request, the health and education programs were separated from the
QMPRP, and the QHP is now included in this Basic Health Services Project.
1.9   The main strategy in the design of the QBP was to select appropriate activities from other health
projects in China which have proven successful in similar settings. Experience with those projects and the
local health officials' familiarity with their content and implementation were expected to provide a better
chance of smooth implementation and to benefit the poorest families living in the project areas.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 15
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies:
Bank-financed
Upgrading rural healt services        Rural Health and Medical Education     Completed in
Project (Cr. 1472-CHA)              December 1991.
Experimental study of rural cooperative  Rural Health and Preventive Medicine  Study completed in
health insurance                      Project (Ln. 2723-CHA/Cr. 1713-CHA)  December 1993.
Regional health planning              Integrated Regional Health Development   Completed in
Project (Cr. 2009-CHA)              December 1997.
Rural health workforce improvement    Rural Health Workers Development          S         S
Study of financing and pa,yment of rural  Project (Cr. 2539-CHA)
doctors
Targeted cost-effective disease control,    Infectious and Endemic Disease Control  S     S
Tuberculosis, Schistosorniasis         Project (Cr. 2317-CHA)
S         S
Control of Immunizable Diseases       Disease Prevention Project
(Cr. 2794-CHA)
MCH and financial access to health    Comprehensive Matemal and Child          HS        HS
services                               Health Project (Cr. 2655-CHA)
Basic health services as part of poverty  Southwest Poverty Reduction Project   S        HS
alleviation                            (Ln. 3906-CHA/Cr. 2744-CHA)
Other Development Agencies
MCH care in poor rural areas          UNICEF supported Project to Improve MCH Services at the
Grass Roots in 300 Counties.
Rural health insurance reform         World Health Organization (WHO) supported Participative Study
of CMS Schemes in 14 Counties.
Harvard/UNICEF supported Project on "Health Care Finance for
China's Rural Poor"
IP (Inplementation Progress); DO (Development Objectives).
Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design:
The main lessons leamed from previous projects, summafized below, relate to: (i) the use of area
based health planning principles; (ii) focused support of priority health interventions; (iii) mechanisms to
reduce financial barriers to service for the very poor; (iv) experiments with rural cooperative health
insurance; and (v) linking of policy reform (or a policy framework) to project implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 16
China                                                            Basic Health Services Project
3.1   The regional health planning approach, which identifies health priorities and coordinates resource
allocation for the whole population of a defined area (in contrast to independent vertical planning by health
subsectors and by other sectors operating health facilities), was first demonstrated in China through the
Integrated Regional Health Development Project (Health m: Cr. 2009-CHA). This approach has since
been widely disseminated, was adopted as a national health strategy in the Ninth Five Year Plan, and has
been mandated as the basis for urban health finance reform. This new project adopts the same planning
principles for county populations through the formulation of a CHRP.
3.2   The Infectious and Endemic Disease Control (IEDC) Project (Health V: Cr. 23 17-CHA)
especially the tuberculosis control component, has shown that in China it is possible to introduce cost-
effective public health interventions at village and township levels on a large scale. The Comprehensive
MCH Project (Health VI; Cr. 2655-CHA) also has early but promising experience of a package of service
improvements and health education activities at these levels. The project would build directly on this
expenence.
3.3    Through the Comprehensive MCH Project (Health VI: Cr. 2655-CHA), China has also piloted
public funding of measures to imnprove financial access for the very poor, using an eannarked fund and a
carefully designed benefits package, with defined standards for services eligible for reimbursement. This
link between service quality and provider payment is an important tool for improving care and containing
costs, and will be used in the new project.
3.4   Studies in financing and payment of rural doctors, being conducted in the Rural Health Workers
Development Proiect (Health IV: Cr. 2539-CHA), have shown that, with a clear policy mandate and with
technical support in scheme design, community consultation and management, cooperative financing of
essential services can be initiated in poor communities and grow from very basic coverage with small
reimbursement on fee for service basis, to exert an influence on provider payment and behavior.
3.5   The Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control (IDDC) Project (Ln. 3914-CHAlCr. 2756-CHA)
provided the experience of a formal commitnent by government to a policy framework within which the
project would be implemented, as a means to ensure that the larger aims of the project would be met and
the benefits sustained after project completion. While there is strong government commitment to the policy,
it has not been possible for IDA to monitor the agreed indicators of program progress. This is largely due
to the fact that Bank and IDA funds are only provided to the salt industry; without financial support from
the Bank for health aspects of the National IDD Elimination Program, it has been difficult to maintain
dialogue with MOH on this matter. In this new project, measures of progress in policy implementation
have been discussed from an early stage of preparation and would be collected regularly along with other
data for project monitoring. The Comprehensive MCH Project and the Disease Prevention Project (Health
VII; Cr. 2794-CHA) have also incorporated policy commitments on key technical aspects of
implementation.
3.6   Previous experience in the implementation of IDA supported health projects in China confirms the
high level of commitment and ownership of the project by local govenments and health bureaus, and the
strong motivation for success. But the experience also highlights difficulties faced by implementing units in
poor and remote counties, due to their own shortage of resources and to constraints imposed by IDA and
government procedures applied through four or five administrative levels. These difficulties include: (i)
late or inadequate mobilization of counterpart funds; (ii) slow fund flow from higher levels (including IDA
reimbursement) to county and township implementing units; and (iii) some dissatisfaction with the costs,
delays and rigidity in obtaining equipment for low level health facilities through large procurement



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                       Page 17
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
packages at national level. This project's implementation, management, and reporting arrangements will
address these issues.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
The level of Bon ower commitment is evident from the long-standing attention paid to the project
by the core central agenciies, the high level of involvement of participating provinces and counties in the
steps of preparation, preparation by the Borrower of the project implementation plans (PIPs), financial
commitments made by the participating provinces before appraisal, and readiness to commence activities
which are eligible for retroactive financing.
4.1    The project has been listed by the Governnent in the Bank's lending program for China since
1995. Project design is based on a proposal from MOH, who has coordinated all preparation activities in
China, including the one year pilot phase to test data collection and project scenarios and numerous
activities involving national experts. As confirmed by the statements of high level officials in MOH, the
government sees the project as a major initiative in the repeated implementation of its new national policy
for improving rural healtl services.
4.2    Draft project proposals were prepared or revised for each joint Bank-Government preparation
mission, beginning with three pilot counties before the identification mission. For pre-appraisal and
appraisal, 17 Part I project counties provided draft CHRP and project proposals for review by national
experts. The preparafion and appraisal workshops were attended by Finance, Planning and Health agency
representatives from a]ll provinces, who had made a formal commitment to SPC to participate in the project
before appraisal.
4.3    The prefectural health bureau of one province had already adopted the project's CHRP procedures
and guidelines for its own planning and for its non-project counties before pre-appraisal of the project.
4.4    The PIPs for both parts of the project have been prepared by the Borrower. IDA's role was to
reach agreement on the outline, comment on early drafts, and give feedback during appraisal and
negotiations.
4.5    MOH and the provinces are carrying out the action plans for 1998, the early activities of which
have been confirmed by the task team as eligible for retroactive financing.
5. Value added of Bank, support:
While the project is based on the Government's concept and policy priorities, IDA's support has
the following benefits:
(a) Policy dialogue as an integral part of the project preparation, leading to policy undertakings as a
basis for project implementation, e.g., adoption of the CHRP and maintenance levels of public
finance.
(b) Increased attention to rural health from non-health sector leaders and decision makers, through
both the policy dialogue and the financial and planning commitments required from local
government in accepting the IDA credit.
(c) Mobilization and funding of national and international experts to improve technical design and
quality of the preparation work including the pilot phase.
(d) IDA's financial support has provided investment to improve the health of the poor that would not
otherwise have been available to the same extent or within the same time frame.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 18
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
E: Project Analyses
1. Economic analysis:
1.1    The Bank's long-standing health policy dialogue with China, conducted through sector studies and
other joint activities with the China Health Economics Network, continued during project preparation, with
contributions from many of the same national and international experts. The project supports the
implementation of new national policies on rural health financing which are broadly consistent with
findings and recommendations of the 1997 sector report, Financing Health Care. This report provides the
core economic analysis for the project, supplemented by analysis of data from the project counties and
other background papers. Annex 4 describes the economic analysis of the project, broadly following the
1995 East Asia and Pacific Regional Guidelines on this subject. Four important issues are sunmarized
here: the economic and poverty impact of the project; the rationale for selection of investments; the
selection of interventions; and the targeting of IDA benefits.
1.2    Economic and Poverty Impact of Health. The latest CAS and Country Economic Memorandum
(CEM) for China and the 1997 health sector report all highlight the importance of improved health for
increasing the income generating capacity of the poor. The contribution of debts from medical care to
poverty in rural China is well recognized, involving an estimated three percent of rural households at any
one time. Assessments undertaken as background to this project, using newly available data, have
quantified major gains to China's overall economic growth from improved health, while at the same time
other studies have indicated that improvement in health status for China as a whole has slowed since the
early 1980's, despite continuing strong economic growth. These are the underlying reasons why the CAS
emphasizes improvement in basic health services for the rural poor, which is the objective of this project.
1.3    Selection of Components. The project investments are designed to address three broad problems
identified in the rural health sector: (i) inefficiency and imbalance of capital investment; (ii) inefficiency in
achieving health gains from health expenditures; and (iii) financial barriers to access of the very poor for
services.
(i)    Sustainable improvement in the use of capital funds can be expected through the CHRP
and improved procedures for upgrading rural health facilities. The appraisal team was impressed by the
savings achieved by county authorities between first and second drafts of the CHRP, through adjusting
both the scope of facilities and method of upgrading. The authorities found the CHRP helpful in
responding to local pressures for potentially inappropriate expenditure. The building improvements
supported by the project are all in rural townships, of basic but appropriate capacity (mostly below
US$30,000 each), and most will involve rehabilitation of structurally sound but neglected buildings. This
modest level of investment in physical facilities provides the appropriate setting and strong incentive for
participation in the improvement of services and financing arrangements. Project initiatives to improve the
information available to planners will reinforce local capacity in making decisions on both capital and
recurrent expenditure.
(ii)    The project will improve the effectiveness of health care through the use of standard case
management protocols for common and serious conditions presenting in the health facilities, and through
financial, management and technical support for selected high priority health interventions. Standard
clinical protocols and procedures are widely used in both basic and sophisticated health settings in many
countries to ensure efficient and effective service delivery, to maintain standards and to contain costs. This
approach also serves to link service quality with financial support, and as a guide for assessing staff
competence and training effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 19
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
The menu of 11 priority healt interventions, from which Part I counties may select for
project support, was prepared through review of the health problems in rural China and of the cost-
effectiveness of available iinterventions. An assessment of the burden of disease for the pilot counties was
prepared, using China national data, adjusted in consultation with local officials on the basis of local
information. Information was then compiled on interventions available for the main health problems
identified, and reviewed by national and provincial experts. Taking into account some persisting data gaps,
the review validated the selection of interventions for project support (see list in Annex 2), and has
identified the areas where further data collection is needed.
(iii)   The project supports three mechanisms to reduce financial barriers to health care for the
poor: (a) reduced service charges for priority health interventions; (b) cooperative medical system (CMS)
schemes; and (c) subsidies for essential services used by the very poor.
(a) Reduced service charges for priority health interventions would be available for all
residents in the Part I project areas, the majority of whom have annual incomes of less than 1500 RMB per
capita. Financial barriers are one of the main reasons cited in surveys and by expert analysts for non-
participation in health programs, and declining service utilization and coverage are temporally linked to
increasing user fees. Experience in other IDA supported projects in China, and in other settings, has shown
an association between increased usage and reduced service charges. In addition, due to high fixed costs of
equipment and training, substantial efficiencies may be gained from increased utilization. There are also
considerable externalities .nd public benefits associated with high coverage of many of these interventions,
including reduced transmission of infectious disease, increased learning ability and work productivity,
reduced need for care of the disabled and avoidance of catastrophic health care expenses. The project will
assist service providers with the costs of delivering these interventions, so for the reasons expressed it is
considered rational to link this project support to improved affordability for the users.
(b) Project support for cooperative health financing through CMS is in line with national
policy, which seeks to reverse the decline in cooperative financing of rural health services which began in
the early 1980s. The Bank has supported a number of research studies in CMS in China. This project will
build local capacity and provide operational experience to plan, manage and monitor CMS schemes in poor
rural communities. Due to some policy constraints and the anticipated low level of contributions from the
household and from other sources, at least at the beginning of the project, it is recognized that there may be
limited potential for effective risk pooling for major expenses, or to affect provider financial incentives.
However, the component design provides incentives for improving service quality and cost containment
through making payment from CMS conditional on use of standard case management protocols, hospital
procedures and approved drug prescribing. Experience in better off rural areas where incomes are rising
has shown that it is possible to raise contributions and extend the scope and influence of CMS schemes,
including both risk sharing and provider payment. This trend is now being documented in the study on
financing and payment of rural doctors in the Rural Health Workers Development Project (Health IV; Cr.
2539-CHA).
(c) As mentioned above, Government surveys and other studies in China have documented
the fact that many people are deterred by financial barriers from using health services and that this problem
is more serious for the very poor. Up to now, limited public funds have been available, through the Civil
Affairs Department and earmarked poverty alleviation funds, to assist the very poor and destitute in
payment of medical bills, but these have often not been systematically organized or used to best effect.
With new policies linking iincrease in health budgets to overall budget growth, and with greater recognition
that effective health care can reduce poverty, more public funds will become available for this purpose.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 20
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
The project will build on the limited but positive experience of the Comprehensive MCH Project (Health
VI; Cr. 2655-CHA) to establish a program of medical financial assistance (MFA) which will reimburse
providers for the costs of defined services for the very poor. The program will help ensure that those
services being improved by the project investments in upgrading of facilities, staff training and other inputs,
will be accessible to project's key beneficiaries, and will also have the effect of linking this small portion of
the project funding for service providers directly to their performance with respect to those beneficiaries.
The mechanism established through the project will provide experience and a model for efficient use of new
public fumds which are expected to become available for this purpose.
1.4    Targeting of IDA Resources. As for other health projects in China, the IDA credit for this project
will be lent to the country through MOF and then made available by MOF to provincial bureaus of finance
who will further allocate the money to bureaus of finance at prefecture and county levels. For this project,
MOF's terms for provinces participating in this project are 17 years for repayment, including 5 years
grace, and 1.1 percent or less interest. Cost recovery for all funds allocated to MOH for central level
activities will be the responsibility of the participating provinces; this is the first health project in which
MOF will take no responsibility for any central level funding. The foreign exchange risk on the IDA credit
proceeds will also be borne by the provinces. The provinces will provide the counties with credit proceeds
on terms not less favorable than those on which they receive the fimds from MOF.
1.5    The financial terns for these arrangements are considered to influence project design in several
ways. On the positive side: (a) MOF is able to recoup some of the costs incurred in administering the
credit, and to anticipate the situation in which, due to continuing economic growth, China would be obliged
to meet the accelerated repayment terms of the Association; and (b) the financial obligations of the
provinces and implementing units may contribute to the strong interest in the project by core planning and
finance units at each level of government. On the other hand: (a) some very poor needy counties, who
would otherwise be eligible to participate in the project, may have been discouraged or excluded by the
financing terms; (b) decisions on the level of project funding for individual counties may have been
influenced by the perceived burden of financing terms; (c) central level project activities for capacity
building, policy development and dissemination of experience, all very important in terms of the linkage of
the project to new national priorities for rural health, are constrained when they are not serving the direct
interests of the project provinces (noted as a risk in para F.2 below); and (d) the onlending terms create
inefficiency in transfer of the grant equivalent of the credit to target beneficiaries, with reduced availability
to meet project objectives. Under the terms for this project it is estimated, using certain assumptions, that
less than 70 percent of the grant equivalent of the IDA credit would be passed to the project areas.
However, both the overall grant equivalent and the proportion available to MOF would be reduced if China
were to begin accelerated repayment of the credit within the implementation period of the project.
2.    Financial analysis:
2.1    Borrower's Repayment Capacit. MOF has a clear record of prompt repayment of IDA,
regardless of whether lower level implementing units meet the financing conditions set by MOF.
2.2    Availability of Counterpart fimds. Due to the poverty status of the participating counties, special
efforts were made to reduce the counterpart burden of the project, particularly at township level.
Counterpart funds will make up 35 percent of the project costs. County and township level governments
will provide 20 percent, and province and prefecture level will provide 15 percent. Based on past
experience, the availability of adequate and timely counterpart funds remains a risk to project
implementation (see para F.2).



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 21
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
2.3    Assessment of Financial Management. The team reviewed the arrangements for financial
management of current Bank supported health projects in the participating provinces, and confirmed that:
(i) there is an adequate government regulatory framework for financial activities, supplemented by MOF
guidelines on internal disbursement procedures; (ii) the PMOs have designated financial units whose staff
have clearly defined and separate functions; (iii) there is an accounting system in place which complies with
MOF guidelines; (iv) there is an internal control system in place; and (v) there is provision for training and
retraining of staff. The main problems identified during the review were: (i) limited use of modern
technology in the accounting and reporting systems; (ii) delays in processing and flow of funds due to lack
of understanding of procedures and regulations; (iii) the inability of current report formats to meet the new
Bank requirements; (iv) inefficiency and delays caused by high staff turnover and lack of easily available
reference manuals; and (V) variable performance of the provincial level revolving funds.
2.4   In response to the assessment, the Borrower plans to improve the financial management
arrangements for the project, through the following main actions: (i) phased computerization of accounting
and reporting systems; (ii) compilation of a reference manual to be readily available in the finance units of
all PMOs; (iii) focused training for financial staff; and (iv) introduction of additional reporting formats to
meet the Bank's requirements. The Bank's resident mission in Beijing (RMC) will provide support in
implementation of these actions, through training and technical assistance, and in review and supervision of
the financial management of the project. (Details of the financial reporting arrangements are in Annex 6.)
3. Technical analysis:
3.1    Attention has beenL given to the following aspects of project concept and design to help ensure that
the technical desipn is appropriate to the country's needs:
e  Consistency with high priority and well founded national policy objectives.
*  Preferred selection of project elements which have already been demonstrated or implemented
elsewhere in Chirn, often in other IDA supported projects.
*  Extensive use of national experts in preparation of each subcomponent.
*  Piloting of some project elements and wide consultation during preparation.
*  Phased preparation in Part I provinces and counties to test feasibility and obtain local feedback.
*  Provision for adjustment during implementation.
*  Preparation of technical guidelines and collection of available reference material.
3.2    This section gives some examples of technical quality assurance in project design:
(a) The underlying strategy of the project is a response to the Government's policy of achieving more
appropriate and efficient use of health resources through improved local planning. Component A
provides practical planning tools, information systems and training to enhance the success of this
strategy.
(b) The construction and upgrading of township health facilities wili benefit from improved guidelines
and processes, prepared by national experts and based on review of the Govermment's experience
with the national 'Ihree Items Construction Project" for rural health facilities. The guidelines
provide for improved definition of the functions of the facilities, more input of local technical
building expertise, and more consultation with users of the facilities and specific arrangements for
maintenance.
(c) Component B1, which will improve service quality, will make use of standard case management
protocols developed from other national initiatives (covering matenal care, management of
childhood illnesses, etc.), and procedures for infection control and X-ray safety prepared by MOH



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 22
China                                                            Basic Health Services Project
and the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine. The starting point for the strategy of improving
rational use of drugs was a review of available essential drug lists undertaken by Tongji Medical
University.
(d) The guidelines for establishing CMS schemes were dramm up by national experts and experienced
CMS managers. The training materials include those produced from the WHO supported analysis
of CMS in 14 rural counties, completed in June 1997.
(e) The design of the MFA Program for very poor families is based on the experience of the
Comprehensive MCH Project (Cr. 2655-CHA), with continuity of technical support from Beijing
Medical University.
Assurance were given at negotiations that each participating township and county will carry out is
health program in accordance with guidelines acceptable to IDA.
3.3    There are good prospects that new appropriate technology will become available and affordable in
the course of the project, especially in the areas of diagnosis, medical care, electronics and
communications. The project areas will be able to take advantage of these trends through revision of the
equipment list, which would be included in the Mid-term Review.
3.4    Cost estimates have been based on the best available information and have been reviewed by
people with local and national experience. However it is recognized that in the present economic and
technological context, changes in costs can be anticipated during the project period. The project annual
review and planning mechanism is designed to allow the necessary adjustments to be made.
4. Institutional analysis:
4.1    Borrowing Agencies. MOF and provincial bureaus of finance have a long record of experience in
the use of Bank and IDA funds in investment projects, and have taken an active role in project preparation.
Their competence to manage project special accounts and related responsibilities is well established,
although the workload of individual divisions and officers may be very high. During project preparation,
MOF has participated actively in the discussion and assessment of financial management capability and
has proposed actions to improve financial management and reporting.
4.2   Executing Agencies. MOH has over 15 years of successful experience in preparing and
supervising the implementation of IDA supported projects. The recent citation by the Bank's Quality
Assurance Group of the Comprehensive MCH Project (Cr. 2655-CHA) as an example of outstanding
project supervision is, in part, a testament to this capability. Provinces participating in this project all have
previous experience of implementing Bank supported health projects. Many project counties also have this
experience.
4.3   The main challenges or risks to successful and timely project implementation have been identified
as: (i) ensuring the capacity of lower level project teams, especially in poor counties, where it is difficult to
allocate sufficient experienced staff on a continuing basis; (ii) maintaining good communication among line
divisions and project staff within the health bureaus; (iii) timely processing of documentation by both health
and finance bureaus; and (iv) maintenance of good coordination between technical experts and managers
from different institutions and levels.
4.4   These challenges have been discussed with the Borrower and participating provinces, and will be
addressed through: attention to staffing levels and training for implementation staff, agreements on the
membership and working arrangements for the expert groups; adequate supervision arrangements; and the



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 23
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
use of improved communication technology where feasible. As noted elsewhere the constraint on financing
of central level activities means that MOH faces a particular challenge in executing its role.
5. Social assessment:
5.1    Rationale. Social assessment and stakeholder analysis have been integrted into both the
preparation and the implementation of the project for the following reasons:
(a) The project aims for comprehensive healffi sector improvement, addressing both supply-side
(service delivery) and demand-side issues. This is the first time that the Government has included
such a high level of demand focused activity in a Bank supported health project.
(b) The CHRPs require adjustment in the functions and relationships of health facilities, with
implications for both financial investment and nstaff mix in those areas.
(c) Improved qualily and effectiveness of services will require changes in the tasks and behavior of
health center management and staff.
(d) Improved utilization of preventive services will depend, in part, on community understanding of
their value and acceptance of their quality.
(e) The success of ihe community financing initiatives introduced through the project will depend on
the capacity of community leaders to mobilize resources and the willingness of beneficiaries to
participate. In particular, design and management of successful CMS schemes will depend on
sound understanding of villagers' needs and interests.
5.2    Activities During Project Preparation.
(a) Stakeholder lnvolvement. MOH and the provinces have followed the process established for
earlier projects of repeated consultation with a range of stakeholders at each administrative level,
as well as exchange of views with other relevant groups. Apart from many health institutions and
agencies, the sectors consulted include planning, finance, poverty alleviation, civil affairs,
personnel, education, the All China Women's Federation, and other groups such as the Red Cross.
Field visits have included discussions with these groups as well as health service providers in many
different capacities, local government representatives, village officials and householders. These
contacts with stakeholders and the issues discussed have been summarized in the project proposals
and are summarized in Table D-1 below.
(b) Household Survevs. As for earlier projects, a household survey is included in the baseline analysis
for each Part I county participating in the project. The survey has been piloted in three counties,
will be completed in all counties of the first group before the project becomes effective, and during
the preparation process of those counties joining the project in the second group.
(c) Participative Consultation in Beneficiarv Communities. For the first timne in a Bank supported
health project in China, a systematic but rapid process of consultation and feedback has been
introduced in selected beneficiary communities, using guidelines prepared by international and
national experts. The social assessment confinned impressions gained from less structured
consultations and provided further support for project design. It particularly highlighted the
importance of consumer consultation and local democratic supervision for CMS schemes. Besides
eliciting information to assist local groups in implementation, this initiative is intended to transfer
skills in social assessment within the health sector from national experts to each project province,
for further support during implementation. The same methods will also be used in conjunction
with the baseline survey in project counties and at the Mid-tern Review.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 24
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Table D-1: Summar of Stakeholder Analvsis and Involvement
Beneficiaries          * quality and atitusde of  * infonmal consultation   * consultations prior to
doctors              * fonmal social          establishing CMS
* villagers            * convenience           assessment            * CMS supervision
* village leaders      * affordability        * baseline survey       mechanisms
* minority nationalities  * is the benefit of CMS                    * patient satisfaction
worth the cost                                survey
o transparency of CMS
financial management
* health workers
speaking same
language
Providers              * availability of training   * informal consultation   * training
and supervision        and formal social     * supervision system
* village doctors      a income level          assessment
* township services    * old equipment        * identification of
* county services      * run-down buildings    training needs
Countv Government      * ability to implement    * consultation during  * implementation of
plan                   preparation            relevant policies for
* health bureau        e ability to mobilize for   * agreement to project  project
* other sectors         CMS                    arrangements          * project management
* leaders              * completion of 3 Items   * agreement to county  and implementation
Construction           plans                 * training
* managing medical and   * project sponsor and
drug marketplace       advocate
* declining resources for
health
Provincial Government   * ability to implement    * consultation during  * project management
plan                   preparation            and monitoring of
* health bureau        * completion of 3 Items   * agreement to project  implementation at
* other sectors         Construction           arrangements           lower levels
* leaders              * implementation of new   * assistance to counties   * technical guidance to
Government policy     for project preparation    counties
directions (including                        * training
CMS and regional
health planning)
Central Government     * models for health    * project development    * project management
development in poor                           and monitoring of
* health bureau         rural areas                                   implementation at
* other sectors        * implementation of new                         lower levels
* leaders               Government policy                            * implementation of
directions                                    interprovincial
* project impact and                           activities
feasibility    .                            _



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 25
China                                                                 Basic Health Services Project
5.3    Activities Plannedfor Implementation. Activities to consult or survey participants and
beneficiaries are included in almost every component of the project, include the following, several of which
are new initiatives for this project:
(a) Improved formats and frequency of feedback of health information to local government and
communities;
(b) Consultation wilh users on township hospital building design;
(c) Surveys of user satisfaction in relation to township hospital services;
(d) Investigation of community attitudes and communication channels for health education in relation
to priority health interventions. Each intervention will include health education activities; and
(e) Ongoing two way communication with participating communities in establishing and operating
CMS schemes aind MFA Programs.
5.4    Minority Nationralities in the Project Areas. National minorities make up approximately six
percent of China's total population, but the selection of provinces and counties has ensured a higher
proportion of minorities in the project beneficiary population. The proportion of minority nationalities is
particularly high in the Part I provinces of Qinghai, Guizhou and Gansu, with 42.8 percent, 36.8 percent
and 9.4 percent, respectively, of the population identified as belonging to minority nationalities. The Part II
counties, located in the Qinba Mountain areas of Sichuan, Shanxi and Ningxia, also have higher
proportions of miinorities than the provincial and national averages. To the extent that members of these
minority nationalities are represented among the very poor in the project counties, they will particularly
benefit from the project's initiatives to improve the affordability of basic health services, through the MFA
Program and through imeasures to reduce the cost to families of the priority health interventions.
The needs and concerns of minority nationalities were identified as a specific topic of the social
assessment and minorities were identified as specific stakeholders during preparation. Issues of concern to
minorities will continue toD be monitored and addressed through the participatory aspects of project
implementation listed above. The inclusion of "nationality" as a specific data variable in the project survey
instruments for baseline, mid-term and project completion assessments, will enable comprehensive and
comparative analysis of issues for minority nationalities.
In summary, the project has been designed with the following features to ensure that the minority
nationalities in the project areas fiilly benefit from the project in accordance with O.D. 4.201: (i) the
selection of project areas provides proportionate coverage and benefits for minority nationalities; (ii) there
is provision, through the stakeholder involvement and consultation process and the social assessment
activities, to consult with members of minority nationalities during project implementation; and (iii) the
project will monitor and report on the extent to which members of minority nationalities are participating in
and satisfied with the activities and services supported by the project.
5.5    Resettlement. No resettlement is anticipated in the project or as a consequence of the project.
Almost all health facility upgrading will take place on existing health center and hospital compounds. The
very few townships where relocation of the health facility is proposed are in sparsely populated counties
(see para 6.1 below). Nevertheless, in the unlikely event that resettlement would be required, the project
county concerned would, as a condition ofparticipation in the project, be required to prepare a
For this project, the term "ethnic minorities" as used in O.D. 4.20 has the same meaning as the term "Minority
Nationalities" referred to in the Chinese Constitution.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 26
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
resettlement action plan, in accordance with guidelines which have been prepared andfound acceptable
to IDA.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category [C].
The project is expected to have no adverse environmental impact. Attention will be given to issues
of land use, disposal of medical waste and use of energy saving technology.
6.1    Land use. Health centers will almost all be built or upgraded in existing compounds. Any new
locations would be approved by the county and township governments. Care would be taken not to use
agricultural land or flood prone land.
6.2    Medical waste. Medical waste hazards in small health facilities are not generally of high volume
or toxicity. All facilities will collect and dispose of medical waste, including needles and syringes,
separately from household waste, and in accordance with WHO's recommended policy and the national
infection control procedures.
6.3    Energy saving. Energy saving stoves are now available in China and will be introduced into the
health facilities improved by the project. Solar water heaters will be introduced in those areas where the
technology is known.
7. Participatory approach:
Beneficiaries/community groups IS/CON                  IS/CON
Academic institutions and experts CON/COL               CONICOL
Local government COL                       COL
Other donors IS/CON       _            IS/CON
IS: Information sharing; CON: Consultation; COL: Collaboration.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section summarizes issues which will affect the sustainability of project benefits in terms of:
(i) health benefits to individuals and to the community; (ii) continuation of institutional and health program
improvements; and (iii) adequacy of financial support.
1.1   Sustainability of health benefits. Although,; for reasons given below, it is expected that health
program improvements from the project will continue after the project is completed, two groups of healti
benefits would endure in the individuals or communities assisted by the project even if the programs were
to be curtailed:
(a) Gains in adult life from optimal health and health care in the forrnative years. Studies show that
there are long-term health and productivity gains from intervention at key points in an individual's
life, particularly during pregnancy and childbirth, and early childhood. Thus, the large number of
women and children benefiting from interventions for improved maternal and child care would be
expected to sustain these benefits into a more productive and healthy adulthood. (For human
capital fonnation, as with any capital formation, it is not necessary to continue investing to realize
benefits from an earlier investment, even though, in this situation, new generations of children
create the opportunity for continued investments in their health.)



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 27
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
(b) Interrupted tramsmission of infectious disease. If transmission of targeted infectious diseases is
sufficiently reduced, long-term reduction in new cases can be achieved. The major example in this
project is tuberculosis, for which effective control can yield long-term reductions in the burden of
this disease on the population. The counties participating in the tuberculosis control program aim
to achieve thiss level of impact during the project.
1.2    Commitment and competence to continue institutional and progm  irMrovements. Institutional
sustainability will be strengthened by improved planning and management, and helping the county health
bureaus to focus on overall development of the sector, rather than on the project in isolation. Continued
commitment and capacity to sustain the main strategies and activities of the project are confidently
expected because:
(a) All key elements of the project are based on the national Government's priorities in rural health, to
which project provinces and counties have committed;
(b) The project will increase the competence and capacity of responsible line divisions in the health
bureaus and related technical institutions, which will improve prospects for continuity after project
completion; and
(c) The project will introduce planning mechanisms and monitoring systems, with improved
information flows, to make decision making and review more rational. It is expected that by the
end of the project these systems will be established in a sustainable way that will improve decision
making for other aspects of the health program.
1.3    Continued funding of recurrent costs. In 1993, the most recent year for which data is available,
China allocated about 3.8 percent of its gross domestic product for health, which is about the lowest among
major countries. The share of government spending on health also declined from 36 percent to 16 percent
between 1986 and 1993. The Government has realized the urgent need to reverse this and is making efforts
to increase public funding of health, although shortfalls may be expected to continue for some time. IDA
finance, in this environment, plays an important role until public finances improve. As long as the value
and feasibility of the program activities have been demonstrated through the project, it is expected that
funds will be available for incremental recurrent costs, because:
(a) The governrent is committed to increase its allocation to essential health services, in line with the
new policy, which requires all levels to increase health sector expenditure in the same proportion as
the overall budget increases. In the Part I project provinces, this is estimated to mean an average
annual increase of 6.5 percent throughout the project life. For the first group of 28 counties, this
rate of increase would result in incremental funding of US$13.7 million equivalent for health. The
aggregate increase in the recurrent budget required as a result of the project in these counties is
estimated at US$2.0 million equivalent, or 8.1 percent of total health budgets in the project
counties in 1996. Based on anticipated rates of growth, the incremental cost during the final
project year will be equivalent to 5.2 percent of the county health budgets, which is a manageable
increment. (The estimate of recurrent incremental costs includes maintenance contracts for health
facilities which would continue after the project is over.)
(b) Other anticipated changes would favorably influence the capacity of the counties to absorb the
incremental recurrent costs of project activities after project completion, including: (i) savings
from efficiency gains as a result of improved planning and management in the health sector, and
through improved personnel policies; (ii) overall economic growth; (iii) increasing household
contributions to health expenditure through pre-payment or insurance schemes, which from



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 28
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
experience elsewhere, can be expected to grow more rapidly than income; and (iv) increased
demand and willingness to pay for improved services.
1.4   Financial Sustainability of the Medical Financial Assistance (MFA) Program. Despite the
acknowledged challenges faced in sustaining the MFA program or any equivalent mechanism for reducing
the burden of medical costs for the very poor, IDA is reasonably satisfied that it will be able to be
maintained after the project is completed, for the following reasons:
(a) The estimated cost is a very small part of the expected incremental budget for the health sector;
(b) The government has begun to use its earmarked poverty alleviation funds for health initiatives as
well as for income generation, in recognition of the contribution of ill health and health costs to
hard core poverty; and
(c) It is anticipated that the growth of CMS will allow movement of people from the MFA Program to
this altemative for financial support.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 29
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
2. Critical risks: Th-is section summarizes selected risks from those listed in Annex 1 and the risk
minimization measures p:roposed. Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk).
1. Efficiency gains of C[IRP will  (i) Government endorsement of the CHRP; (ii) expert review of CHRP before
be compromised by inadequaLte   approval; (iii) civil works to be phased according to priorities; and (iv) provision
technical support, local pressures    made for updating of CHRP.
against change of hospital roles, and
hasty civil works. (S)
2. There will be lack of balance in  (i) commitment on balance of investment in project design; (ii) in Part I, link
implementation of components with  civil works to MFA Program and other priority activities; (ii) ensure adequate
preference for facilities       higher level technical support and monitoring for non-hardware components; and
improvement. (M)                 (iii) give specific attention to this balance during action plan review and
supervision.
3. People will not use facilitiles and  (i) conduct social assessment and consultations to improve understanding of
services as much as expected, due to community preferences and patterns in using health care; (ii) use the project
bypassing, dissatisfaction wilh  progress reports and the information system to raise awareness of decision
quality/price, lack of market   makers about these issues, and continue dialogue based on the data; and (iii) use
research, and inadequate attention to the annual and mid-term reviews to adjust investment according to utilization
the growing private sector. (S)  figures.
4. Inadequate technical support and (i) assurances given at negotiations on formation and retention of national expert
supervision due to financial    panel for the duration of the project; (ii) IDA will review annual workplan and
constraints at central level. (S)  budget of central level; and (iii) MOH and IDA seeking partnership with other
development agencies for grant assistance.
5. Counterpart funds delayed or    (i) project counterpart requirement is lower than usual, especially within the
insufficient, leading to slow   county; (ii) credit disbursement ratios vary according to relative willingness to
implementation and disbursement.  provide counterpart funds (lower for civil works, higher for program support and
(H)                             technical assistance); and (iii) fonnats agreed for budgeting and reporting
counterpart fund use, twice yearly.
6. Government and public,       (i) adequate governmentlpublic contnbution is a requirement for a CMS scheme
contributions to CMS and MIFA   to be eligible for project support, (ii) in Part II, IDA finds are included in the
Program will not be sufficilent. (S)  financing pool for the MFA Program; (iii) project will monitor progress and
publish reports on the funding and operation of the funds; and (iv) coverage of
the MFA Program will be a focus of the Mid-term Review of the project.
7. People unwilling to contribute   (i) consult and inform the community about the CMS scheme design; and (ii)
their scarce resources to CM5. (M)  establish good management, accounting and reporting arrangements.
8. Complexity of the project. (S)    (i) request adequate supervision resources; (ii) define role of RMC in
supervision; (iii) ensure central and provincial capacity for supervision and
monitoring of the project counties; and (iv) define the steps and accountability
for annual review, monitoring and reporting procedures, by level.
Overall Risk Ratin: S



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 30
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
3. Possible controversial aspects: There are no controversial aspects.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
1.1    At least four project provinces shall have signed implementation agreements with the Borrower.
1.2    Establishment of a national expert panel, and appointment of its members, all with terms of
reference acceptable to the Association.
2. Other Conditions:
2.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Borrower will:
(a) make the credit proceeds available to the provinces on agreed terms.
(b) maintain throughout the period of project implementation a Project Leading Group and a project
management office (PMO), with terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the
Association.
(c) maintain throughout the period of project implementation a national expert panel (NEP), with
terms of reference, membership and resources acceptable to the Association, with responsibility for
providing technical assistance to the provinces, and monitoring and supervision of overall project
activities.
(d) prepare an annual action plan for national level activities; and review the annual action plans of the
provinces and the provincial reviews of county plans, and provide such to the Association for
comment, along with the Borrower's annual action plan.
(e) monitor and evaluate project progress twice yearly, based on data provided by the project
provinces and the national level PMO, in formats and using indicators acceptable to the
Association, and hold consultations with the Association on the findings.
(f) identify, prepare and appraise additional counties joining the project, according to guidelines and
procedures acceptable to the Association, including the resettlement guidelines which were agreed
at negotiations.
(g) prepare and send to the Association a Mid-term Review report by October 15, 2001.
2.2    At negotiations, agreement was reached that each project province will:
(a) maintain throughout the project implementation period a PMO, with stfing, terns of reference
and resources acceptable to the Association.
(b) (Part I) maintain throughout the project implementation period an expert group, with terms of
reference and resources acceptable to the Association, to provide technical assistance, monitoring
and supervision for the project counties, and coordinate with the NEP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 31
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
(c) provide to the Blorrower draft annual action plans according to agreed guidelines, including review
of the annual action plans of the counties.
(d) provide to the EBorrower twice-yearly progress reports incorporating county and provincial data,
according to agreed guidelines.
(e) ensure that, as a condition for participation in the project, each project county has completed the
following actioris:
(i)    adopted a strategy consistent with the national health policy for implementation of
its health program.
(ii)   established a PMO with acceptable staff and resources.
(iii)   (Part I counties) prepared and formally adopted the CHRP and an action plan for
the first year of implementation of its health program.
(iv)   (Part I counties) ensured that the estimated total project expenditures are such that
at least 25 percent of project funds are allocated for service improvements;
(Component B) and no more than 50 percent for civil works and equipment.
(f) cause each 2Qject county to:
(i)    carry out its project health program in accordance with guidelines acceptable to
the Association.
(ii)   (Part I) maintain the proportion of the total county health budget allocated for
rural and public health programs at least at the same level as the 1996 level; and if
its total annual budget increases, to increase its total health budget at the same
rate.
(iii)   (Part I) ensure that each improved health facility is properly maintained.
(iv)   (Part I) manage and support, under its health program, only those CMS schemes
which follow policies and procedures acceptable to the Association.
(v)    establish and operate a medical financial assistance (MFA) Program in each
participating county, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association;
and (Part 1) ensure that no township level civil works are undertaken until that
township has made preparations for its MFA Program which are acceptable to the
Association.
(vi)   provide action plans and progress reports in accordance with guidelines and
formats acceptable to the Association.
H: Readiness for Implementation
(a) The procuremerLt plan for the first year has been prepared.
(b) The Project Implementation Plans have been prepared and reviewed.
(c) The 1998 action plans for central and provincial level activities of Part I have been approved and
are now being implemented.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Janet Hohnen  nt4Q          r  <->,   *rr
Sector Manager/Director:          Maureen Law  'Y             u\ (f\(*. L
Country Manager/Direcitor:        Yukon Huang



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 32
China                                                                   Basic Health Services Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Summary of Objectives and Outputs
*Promote human
development by
meeting the basic
health needs of
the rural poor.
Improve public
funding of
essential social
infrastructure.
Assist the Government to achieve sustainable health
improvement for the populations of selected poor rural
counties in seven poor provinces, through:
(1) improved allocation and management of health  * Established system and capability for county
resources;                                     health resource planning (CHRP).
(2) upgrading of health facilities at township level;  * Upgraded health facilities at both central and
general townships to meet the needs for their
revised functions under the CHRP.
* Improved ability to provide useful and timely
information to health service managers and
other interested parties at each level.
(3) improved quality and effectiveness of health  * Improved quality of health services at
services and programs; and                     township and village level through:
implementing referral and supervision
agreements between service levels;
introducing standard case management
protocols; implementing national hospital
procedures for infection control and X-ray
safety; and introducing policies and
procedures to reduce dangerous and
excessive drug use.
* Improved county wide programs to prevent
or control selected high priority health
problems for which cost-effective
interventions are available in China, but not
yet adequately implemented in the project
areas.
(4) increased risk sharing and the affordability of  * Established cooperative medical financing
essential health care for poor families.       schemes in the project areas.
* Established program for medical financial
assistance (MFA) for the very pwor.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 33
China                                                                     Basic Health Services Project
Annex 1
Project Design Surman,
L Sector-related CAS Goal:
1. Promote human development. through
meeting the basic health needs of the rural
poor.
2. Increase public funding of essential
social infrastructure, including health and
education.                   _
IL. Project Development Objective:                                                      (Objective to Goal)
The project will assist the government to                                               Assumption:
achieve sustainable health improvement for                                              Improved allocation and
the populations of poor rural counties                                                  management of health
through:                                                                                resources will help to meet the
basic health needs of the poor.
(1) improved allocation and management   * Bed occupancy of THCs and   Progress reports
of health resources;                  centrl township hospitals                     Risk: People will not use the
(CTHs).                                       facilities or services because of
* Ratio of Outpatient Department               financial barriers or other
(OPD) visits: professional staff  Progress reports  preferences for care.
in THC and CTH.
(2) upgrading of health facilities al:  . % THC buildings which meet    Progress reports
township level;                       technical specifications.
(3) improved quality and effectivenless of    . # (%) CTHs have both effective   Annual survey
health services and programs; and     referral and supervision
agreements with county
hospitals and using standard
clinical protocols.
* A coverage measure for each  Progress reports
priority intervention selected by
the county (see Annex 2,
Appendix 2-3, Attachment 1).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 34
China                                                                     Basic Health Services Project
(4) increased risk sharing and the    T  Number of townships with CMS  Progress reports
affordability of essential health care for  schemes lastng two or more
poor families.                           years.
% of the eligible poor        Progress reports
population receiving MFA
Program.
M. Outputs':
Component A. Plannin. Management and
Health Infrastructure
Al. Established system and capability for   * % counties with approved  CHRP            (Outputs to Objective)
county health resource planning (CHRP).  CHRP and annual review.        Annual reports   Assum _tion: CHRP will
improve resource alocation.
Risk: Efficiency gains will be
compromised by inadequate
higher level support; local
resistance to change of hospital
roles; and haste in approving
civil works.
A2. Upgraded health facilities at both  * # (%) upgraded health facilities  Progress reports    mDtion: Buildings meet
central and general townships to meet the  (with no dangerous buildings                 the real needs of health center
needs for their revised functions under the  and with bed capacity and                  staff and patients.
CHRP.                                    functions adjusted) according to
the CBRP.                                     Risk: Inadequate technical
assessment or consultation
with staff on needs.
A3. Improved information system, which    * Guidelines with agreed content,  Guideline  AssumDtion: Information will
can provide useful and timely information  format, frequency and        available       be used for monitoring and
to health service managers and other     distribution for township and                  improving health programs.
interested parties at each level.        county level reports.
* # (%) counties providing     Progress reports  Risk: Inadequate training and
satisfactory six monthly project              technical support in use of the
progress reports and annual                   data.
health sector status reports
within target date.
End-of-project statement of milestone reached through the implementation of each component (each output should correspond
in number to its respective component).



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 35
China                                                                   Basic Health Services Project
CoLmionent B. Health Service
Improvemn
B 1. Improved quality of health services at   *  %  CTHs and THCs having   Annual survey   AssmRtion: Service
township and village level through:      effective referral and                       agreements will be fuiily
implementing referral and supervision    supervision agreements with                  implemented.
agreements between service levels;       county hospitals
introducing standard case management   * # (%) CTH/THC using standard                 Health service improvements
protocols; implementing national hospital  clinical protocols for maternal            will receive same attention and
procedures for infection control aid X-ray  and child care.                           prionty as civil works.
safety; and introducing policies and   * # (°/0) CTH/THC complying
procedures to reduce dangerous and       with national infection control              Risk: Financial disincentives
excessive drug use.                     requirements.                                 to service agreements and
* # (%) CTH/THC complying                      clinical management reforms.
with national X-ray safety
requirements.                                Inadequate training and
* # (°/e) THC and village clinics              supervision of service changes.
using essential drugs.
B2. Improved county wide programs to   * A coverage measure of the                    Asmpjtion: Supply-side
prevent or control selected high priority  priority health interventions              improvements will increase
health problems for which cost-effective  (see Annex 2, Appendix 2-3,                 utilization and participation.
interventions are available in China, but  Attachment 1).
not yet adequately implemented in the                                                 Risk: Demand-side factors
project areas.                                                                        including cost will limit
coverage of high priority
interventions.
Component C. Cooperative M.edical
System (CMS)
Cl. Established cooperative medical    * % townships with CMS         Annual report   Assumption: People will want
financing schemes in the project areas.  schemes meeting agreed                       to join the CMS and stay in
conditions for project support               over several years.
* % population covered by CMS.
* % township CMS schemes                       Risk: Poor households will not
producing satisfactory annual                be willing to contribute their
report and passing audit.                    scarce resources.
* % county CMS offices
producing annual report with                 Funds will be poorly managed
comparative indicators on CMS                and misused.
schemes.
* % population satisfied with
CMS.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 36
China                                                                   Basic Health Services Project
C2. Established a program for medical  *% of the poor among the       Progress reports  Assmption: Funds will be
financial assistance for the very poor.  eligible poor population                     allocated and used for their
receiving support fiom the MFA               intended purpose.
Program.
* Amount of the MFA Program                    Risk: Delay in setting up and
expenditure.                                 using the MFA Program.
Misuse of funds.
Component D. Proiect Coordination and
Suvo
D1. Provided the structure for effective  * # provinces with fully staffed  Progress reports  Assumption: This component
project planning, budgeting, management  PMO.                                          will be adequately funded with
and technical supervision at provincial and   * Average time for claim and            futl staff complement.
central levels.                          disbursement cycle in each
province.                                    Risk: Inadequate
management, supervision and
technical support due to
financial constraints at central
levels.
D2. Improved the capacity of provinces to   * Number of visits by provincial   Progress reports
provide technical support to the project  experts to the project counties.
areas and to disseminate the experience  * % of counties complying with    Progress reports
gained in project areas to other counties.  their annual training plans by
component
D3. Ensured that the central level can  * Number of visits by central  Progress reports
provide technical support to the provinces  experts to the project provinces.
and use the experience of the project to
contribute to policy development and
national dissemination.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 37
China                                                                Basic Health Services Project
IV. Project Components:                 ....._ __Base Cobst.  
Part I. Basic Health Servicesi                        (US$ million)l
A.    Planning Management and Health Infrastructure          42.32                      Assumption: Timely
and adequate
Al.   Implement county health resource planning               0.65      Progress reports  counterpart funds.
(CHRP)l
Effective provincial
revolving funds.
A2.   Upgrade township health facilities                     39.41      Progress reports
A3.   Improve the health sector management information        2.25      Progress reports  Risk: Inplementation
system                                                                           delayed by slow fund
availability.
B     Health Service Improvement                             23.67
Bl.   Improve the quality of township health services         6.15     Progress reports
32.   Support high priority health interventions             17.51     Progress reports
C.    Cooperative Medical System (CMS)                       12.45
Cl.   Implement CMS sclhemes                                  8.12     Progress reports
C2.   Introduce program for imedical financial assistance     4.33     Progress reports
for the very poor
D.    Project Coordination and Support                        7.34      Progress reports
Part II. Qinba Health Programl
A.    Health Service Delivery                                14.31
Al.   MCH Service                                             7.38      Progress reports
A2.   EPI Service                                             2.24     Progress reports
A3.   Priority Disease Interventions                          2.42     Progress reports
A4.   Emergency Transmission and Communication                0.77      Progress reports
A5.   Infrastructure Support                                  1.50     Progress reports
B.    Health Service Utilization                              3.40     Progress reports
C.    Project Coordination and Support                        1.12     Progress reports  _
Note: Differences due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 38
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
The project has two parts, described separately in this annex. Part L the main Basic Health
Services Project (IDA US$70 million equivalent), will be implemented in a total of 71counties in seven
provinces. Part II, the Qinba Health Program (QHP; IDA US$15 million equivalent) covers the same areas
as the Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (Ln. 4187-CHA/Cr. N028-CHA), from which it was
separated. The QHP objectives and rationale are the essentially the same as for Part I, but the scope of
activities is more limited, focusing on MCH and other key health interventions and the medical financial
assistance (MFA) Program.
PART I. BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
INTRODUCTION
1.    The objective of the project is to assist the Government to achieve sustainable health improvement
for the populations of poor rural counties through:
* inproved allocation and management of health resources.
upgrading of health facilities at township level.
improved quality and effectiveness of health services and programs.
* increased risk sharing and the affordability of essential health care for poor families.
2.    The project is regarded by both the Government and the World Bank as a major opportunity to test
and demonstrate the implementation of new national policy priorities for rural health, with potential for
dissemination to other counties and provinces. Therefore capacity building at higher levels is an important
element.
3 .    The project design incorporates the following features:
* project activities in each county will be implemented within an agreed policy framework (see
Appendix 2-1) and in accordance with a county health resource plan (CHRP), which covers all
investments in the county's rural health sector.
* each participating county has some flexibility to select health interventions for support based
on its own priorities and existing programs.
* the project links local health infrastructure improvements with the adjustment of the functions
and relationships the health facilities and with measures to increase service quality, utilization
and affordability.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
4.    Project activities are grouped into four components. Components A, B and C will be implenented
in the participating counties; Component D contains the activifies of provincial and central level. Detailed
descriptions of each component are available in the project files, and in the project implementation plan
(PIP).



Project Appraisal Documrternt                                                     Page 39
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
5.    The project will be implemented in a total of 71 counties in seven provinces: Anhui, Gansu,
Guizhou, Henan, Qinghai, Shanxi, and Chongqing (a newly created province level city, referred to as a
province). The counties will join the project in two groups (see Appendix 2-2 for a list of project counties).
Component A. Improved Planning, Management and Institutional Development (total base cost
US$42.32 million) comptises three subcomponents, which will improve health sector planning, township
health facilities, and information use.
Al.  Improved Health Sector Plannig
6.    This subcomponent will consolidate the system of county health resource planning initiated during
project preparation. The CHRP is based on analysis of the status and trends in the county population,
health problems, and patterns of service and care; and on assessment of present and future resource
distribution. The five year CHRP covers physical, human and financial resources and related
organizational and management capacity. The plan focuses on improved coverage of basic preventive and
medical services through defining the roles of township services, and their referral and supervision linkages;
rational distribution of hospital facilities to reduce waste and duplication; increased allocation of funds for
cost-effective and essential public health interventions; and improved understanding and response to the
changing pattern of healtl problems.
7.    The first five year plan, prepared by each county health bureau, with guidance from national and
provincial experts, will be approved by the county government and provincial planning comnmission as the
basis for health investmenit and service refonn. In year 4/5 of the project, a new five year plan will be
prepared, to cover the final year of the project and the four years after project completion.
8.    The project will support implementation ofthe planthrough: (i) training and experience exchange
for health planners; (ii) regular progress monitoring through reports and site visits; and (iii) technical
assistance to prepare annual workplans.
A2.   Upgrading of Township Health Facilities
9.    This subcomponent will upgrade the buildings and equipment of township hospitals and health
centers, and establish viable preventive maintenance procedures for these assets. The activities have been
planned after thorough analysis of the national initiative to improve rural health facilities (referred to as the
'Three Items Construction Program"), and incorporate many of the procedures and guidelines of this
program, with additions amd adjustments based on that experience.
10.   According to the defined role of each health center in the CHRP and a technical assessment of the
present facilities, the project will support civil works and related technical services for repair, rehabilitation
and new construction at township health facilities, and procurement of equipment from equipment lists
agreed for each level of service. Smaller township health centers may have their bed capacity reduced;
while for the larger central township hospitals there may be increased capacity for certain clinical
functions, for which they will take referrals from surrounding areas. The design of the buildings will meet
requirements for basic hygiene and infection control, and where X-ray capability is to be included, will
comply with requirements for X-ray safety. The introduction of energy saving stoves and solar water
heaters will be considered for each area, and included with the improved facilities where feasible.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 40
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
11.   Procedures and budgets for regular preventive maintenance and repairs will be introduced for all
facilities upgraded by the project, as described in the PIP.
12.   The project will finance: development of technical guidelines; training of managers and
supervisors; labor, materials and technical services for civil works; and equipment.
13.   This subcomponent will absorb a large part of the project cost, and is an essential part of the
balanced program of service improvements. Agreement has been reached with the Borrower on
mechanisms to: (i) ensure that the investment in physical infrastructure is appropriate to the need of good
technical quality and well maintained; and (ii) link these improvements in physical facilities with
implementation of other subcomponents which are intended to improve quality, access and impact of health
services. This balanced implementation will be important to achieving the development objectives of the
project.
A3.   Improved Management Information System
14.   Adequate information capability at county level is essential to successful planning and management
of the health programs being supported by the project, as well as for monitoring and evaluation of the
project itself. Timely and properly presented information is needed to allow higher level managers to
monitor and compare progress among the project areas, adjust plans, and inform and involve various
community groups and other stakeholders. This subcomponent will improve the capability of health
administrative units to collect and use the information. As far as possible, the reporting requirements of the
project will be included in the system for monitoring the implementation of the CHRP, and managing the
rural health programs.
15.   The main activities will be to: (i) improve the capacity of the information unit in the county health
bureau, and its linkages to health facilities and units in the county level and at provincial and central levels;
(ii) pilot and introduce improvements to the current health reporting system for village and township
facilities; and (iii) conduct surveys to supplement routine data collection, covering health institutions and
resources, health expenditures, household surveys, and to support other components, including CMS
participation, user satisfaction, and situation analysis of specific health conditions.
16.   The project will finance: training, technical support; equipment; software and other incremental
costs of establishing the information units in the county health bureau; and the costs of surveys, pilots and
specific monitoring activities for the project itself.
Component B. Improved Health Service Quality and Effectiveness (total base cost US$23.67 million).
This component has two subcomponents, which will improve health service delivery and enhance the
impact of selected priority health interventions.
Bl. Improved Health Service Deliverv
17.    The purpose of this subcomponent is to improve the quality and utilization of township health
services, and increase user satisfaction, through: (a) establishing clear referral and supervisory
relationships between the different levels of service; (b) introducing case management protocols and
standard hospital procedures in township health facilities; and (c) reducing the use of dangerous and
unnecessary drugs.



Project Appraisal Docurmernt                                                       Page 41
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
18.   The main activities of this subcomponent are to: (i) develop leadership and supervisory skills at
county level to support, clinical services in the townships; (ii) enact and implement regulations defining the
relationship and responsibilities of the diffierent service levels, and controlling illegal and unqualified
practitioners; (iii) strengihen the functional relationships between levels for public health and preventive
services; (iv) establish a t-wo way clinical referral system with regular follow up, consultation and
supervision from hiigher levels, including the rotation of full-time or visiting senior clinical staff from
county hospital to township level; and (v) introduce essential drug lists on a pilot basis and establish
programs for reduction of dangerous and unnecessary drugs. For these areas short, practical problem
oriented inservice training courses will be held, and clinical placements and exchanges will be arranged
between hospitals of different levels.
19.   In townships where CMS schemes are established, payments by the CMS to the township hospital
will be linked to compliance with the clinical protocols, hospital procedures and prescribing guidelines
introduced by the project.
20.   The project will fund: seminars and workshops to develop and introduce guidelines and
regulations, printing and dissemination of protocols and procedures; training costs, including materials and
equipment; the incremental costs of program support for clinical supervision and visiting services to lower
levels; and other technical support.
B2.   Priority Health Interventions
21.   This subcomponent will improve the health impact of county health programs, through enhanced
implementation, coverage and utilization of a few selected proven cost-effective health interventions. The
three top priority interventions, to be conducted in all counties which do not already have active programs
in these areas, are maiernal and child health, tuberculosis control and childhood immunization. Others,
estimated to be cost-eiffective but relevant to smaller population groups, will be selected if any of these
three programs are already active, or will be considered for selection at the mid-term of the project. These
are: control of iodine deficiency disorders, hepatitis B immunization, cataract reduction, supplementary
folate to reduce spinal birth defects, regular deworming of children to improve growth and development,
smoking control, and injury prevention. The programs will be managed by the appropriate county level
health agency and implemented through township hospitals and village clinics. The table below shows the
interventions selected by the first group of 28 counties and the estimated coverage:
__~~~__                                       
MCH Care                     7             19        10,636,100          1,084,880
EPI                          3             7          5,069,200             86,170
TB Control                   4             11         5,192,300            207,692
IDD Control                  6             10         7,746,000            790,000
Hepatitis B Immun.           4              5         2,643,100             45,000
Cataract Removal             2              6         1,783,100             80,953
Deworning                    2              3         1,655,000            393,900
Injury Prevention             1             2          935,000
22.   Inplementation of each intervention will follow project guidelines prepared by national experts and
acceptable to IDA, based on previous experience in China and relevant international experience. Project
activities will include: (i) capacity building for the county and township levels for planning, management



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 42
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
and monitoring, including baseline assessment and regular progress reviews; (ii) community education and
mobilization; and (iii) incremental program support to carry out and supervise the activities to the level
required.
23.   Through the project, measures will be taken in each county to improve the availability and the
affordability of these priority interventions for all users. Most counties will achieve this through reducing
the price of the interventions; and targets and progress in improved affordability, as well as coverage and
participation for the priority interventions, will be monitored regularly (see list of indicators in Appendix 2-
3).
24.   The project will finance: training of staff, supervisors and managers, including training materials;
surveys and monitoring arrangements; community education activities; purchase of essential equipment;
and some incremental recurrent costs of delivering the program, including purchase of vaccines and other
materials. Where the famiily receiving the service is a member of a CMS scheme or a MFA Program,
project reimbursement would be to the CMS or MFA Program.
Component C. Increased Affordability of Health Services (total base cost US$12.45 million).
25.   This component has two subcomponents, to introduce cooperative medical financing schemes and
to provide a program of medical financial assistance for the very poor.
Cl.   Cooperative Medical System (CMS)
26.   The purpose of this subcomponent is to mobilize community financing and reduce financial
barriers to essential health care by helping local governments implement the national policy on establishing
CMS schemes in rural areas. The project counties will establish CMS schemes in selected townships,
based on criteria and guidelines acceptable to IDA, covering membership, financing, management,
contracting with providers and accountability to the community. Each county has prepared a plan for
phased introduction and expansion of CMS schemes during the project, and the essential steps for each
county and each scheme have been defined. The county health bureau will supervise and monitor the
schemes, with technical support from provincial health bureau and their designated experts.
27.   The project will fund start up activities, such as baseline analysis, scheme design, community
consultation and mobilization, and establishment of the CMS management system, covering items such as
technical assistance, training, surveys, and office equipment and supplies. The project will also supply
basic equipment to village health stations which provide services to scheme members. In line with
Government policy, the CMS operating fund will be made up of contributions from member families,
village collectives and other levels of government. In addition, if agreed by the government and IDA, some
government counterpart funds may be used to provide seed funds for the CMS. IDA funds would not be
used for this purpose.
28.   As mentioned above, townships with CMS will also be pilot areas for implementation of some
service improvement activities of subcomponent B 1. These items will be included in the contracts signed
between the service provider and CMS financing agency. For example, schemes would only reimburse the
health facility for drugs included on an essential list, and for services complying with standard case
management guidelines.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 43
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
C2.   Medical Financial[ Assistance Program (see Appendix 2-4)
29.   The purpose of the MFA Program is to reduce financial barriers to care for the poorest five percent
of households and thereby improve their health status and reduce the risk that they will be further
impoverished by medical expenses. The project will help each township establish a MFA Program, which
will be used to reimburse ;providers for whole or partial payment for defined health services. These funds
will be established in the first two years of the project. Where CMS schemes are established, townships
may combine the two financing mechanisms, for example, by using the MFA Program to reduce the
copayment for essential services for eligible members.
30.   Activities include identifying eligible households and eligible services, establishing the registration
system and claim procedures, and preparing a budget, financing plan and transparent financial management
and reporting system. The MFA Program will be managed at township level, under uniform guidance and
supervision from the county health bureau. Information on the operation of the MFA Program will be part
of the management information system.
31.   The project will pay for the establishment of MFA Program management at township level and
monitoring and coordination at county level, including staff training and supervision. It will also pay for
the service subsidies provided by the MFA Program.
Component D. Project Coordination and Support (total base cost US$7.34 mnillion).
32.   Through this comlponent the participating provinces and national level agencies will: (i) monitor
and supervise the project; (ii) provide technical support to project implementing units; (iii) appraise
proposals for the second group of counties joining the project; (iv) conduct investigations related to project
progress or to health problems and other related fields of practical research in the project areas; and (v)
analyze and disseminate the project experience. It also covers all activities of project management by the
Foreign Loan Office of M[OH and the project implementing units in the provincial health bureaus.
33.   The activities will be carried out by the project implementing units and designated institutions or
experts for each technical area, selected in a manner acceptable to IDA, in collaboration with the
responsible line divisions of MOH and the Provincial Health Bureaus. The activities will include:
development and piloting of guidelines; training and briefing of officials and experts at lower levels;
supervision and review of progress and progress reports; review of workplans; and organization of internal
and external tours for experience exchange. Detailed outlines for the activities of Component D are
provided in the PIP for the project and are also available in the project files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 44
China                                                            Basic Health Services Project
PART II. O1NBA HEALTH PROGRAM
INTRODUCTION
34.   The objective of the Qinba Health Program (QHP) is to improve the quality and accessibility of
basic health care services in the poorest 26 counties of the Qinba Mountain area located in the provinces of
Shaanxi and Sichuan, and the Nngxia Autonomous Region. This component has been designed to
complement the poverty alleviation programs being implemented in the same areas under the Qinba
Mountain Poverty Reduction Project (Ln. 4187/Cr. N028-CHA).
PROJECT COMPONENTS
35.   Under the QHP, project activities are grouped into three components: health service delivery;
health service utilization; and coordination and support. The first two components will be implemented in
the participating counties while the third component contains the activities to be managed at the central,
provincial and prefectural levels. Detailed descriptions of each component are in the PIP and are available
in the project files.
Component A. Priority Health Services (total base cost US$14.31 million) comprises three
subcomponents.
Al.   Maternal and Child Health (MCH). The aim of this subcomponent is to improve the quality of
MCH services, especially those used by the poorest populations living in the project areas in order to
reduce morbidity and mortality of mothers, and children under age five.
36.   The main activities include: (a) safe motherhood, including systematic management of maternal
health, hospitalization of high-risk patients, obstetric emergency management, and Ifmily planning
consultations; and (b) child care, including basic neonatal care, systematic management of acute respiratory
infections and diarrheal disease in young children.
A2.   Immunization. This subcomponent will improve coverage of childhood immunization against
vaccine-preventable diseases, and tetanus immunization for women of child bearing.
37.   The main project activities include: (i) increasing the coverage of routine childhood immunization;
(ii) expanding tetanus toxoid immunization among children and women of child bearing age; (iii) cold chain
improvement; (iv) upgrading health workers' technical and managerial skills; (v) strengthening
management of the immunization service, and (vi) improving information, education and communication
for immunization services.
A3.   Priority Disease Intervention
38.   This subcomponent will improve coverage, quality and access for selected highly cost-effective
interventions. The main activities will focus on: (i) tuberculosis control, through improved diagnosis and
management and making the treatment free to the patient; (ii) routine deworming of young children to
improve their growth and development; and (iii) promotion and monitoring or use of iodized salt to help
reduce the incidence of iodine deficiency disorders. This subcomponent will also establish a network of
emergency services, including onsite first aid and patient transport.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 45
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
39.   For component A the project will finance: civil works; cold chain equipment; diagnostic and
medical equipment for maternal and child health; vehicles for supervisory purposes; vaccines; taining; and
operational expenses.
Component B. Healtlh S,ervice Utilization (total base cost US$3.40 million). This component will
establish a Medical Financial Assistance (MFA) Program to subsidize health services to the poorest 20
percent of the families in the project areas. The benefit package includes essential preventive health care
services and hospitalization services.
40.   The main function of the MFA Program would be to receive funds from designated sources and
provide subsidies for the eligible services under a set of guidelines and rules acceptable to IDA and the
Government. These provisions would cover the criteria to determine the eligible population, types of
services to be covered, the range of subsidies and copayment responsibilities, sources of funds, operational
standards, and accounting and auditing requirements. Each province would, in turn, be responsible to
provide more detailed technical guidance and oversee the establishment and operation of a MFA Program
in each of its participating counties. Each county would independently manage and operate a MFA
Program under the set of agreed norms and conditions, including an effective and transparent accounting
and auditing system. T[hese guidelines could be modified and adjusted only when justified. Each MFA
Program will have to meet a minimum set of conditions that would make it eligible for support under the
project.
41.   The MFA Program would cover: (i) a basic MCH package of prenatal care, hospital delivery,
postnatal care, and immnunization for children; (ii) about 70 percent of the costs of services and drugs
provided at the village level, 65 percent of outpatient and inpatient costs at the township level, and 60
percent of the costs at the county level; and (iii) catastrophic medical expenses (inpatient) exceeding RMB
600 per hospital episode.
42.   The project will flund the establishment of MFA Program management, monitoring and
coordination at county level, including staff training and supervision. It will also finance the MFA
Program itself
Component C. Project Coordination and Support (total base cost US$1.12 million).
43.   The main elemnent under this component will be the establishment and operation of an effective
national level progran implemented by MOH. In addition, coordination would also be strengthened at the
provincial, prefectural and county levels. Their objectives would be to coordinate the supervision and
management among the provinces and their health agencies involved in this project, to monitor the progress
of the QHP components, to provide technical assistance, project evaluation, and operational research to
project entities, to carny out activities of common interest, and to disseminate the lessons learned from the
project to other areas of the country. The project will finance: technical support and project management
cost; training; travel; and limited equipment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 46
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Appendix 2-1
Policy Framework
Overall Sustainabilt
* Governmient to increase   a December 1996     * County          Annual reports to include:
recurrent financing for     Health Conference    government
health sector.                                                   * Rate of increase in total
govemment expenditure
* Government to increase    * December 1996     * County            and health expenditure.
financing for preventive    Health Conference;   govermment      * Actual level of:
health programs and         May 1997 CMS                           (i) government budget;
essential health services in  circular (re poor                   (ii) govemment healffi
townships and villages.     areas)                                budget; and
(iii) govemment health
budget for preventive
services, township and
village subsidies and
contributions to CMS and
MFA Program.
Component A: Planning.
Management and Health
Infrastructure
* Use regional health planning  * December 1996  * Incorporated into  * Monitored as a project
principles as framework.    Health Conference    county health    activity through the annual
resource plans    review process.
* Guidelines on recruitment of  * December 1996  * County health  a Annual report to show the
non-qualified health        Health Conference;   bureau           proportion of staff each
personnel.                  May 1997 CMS                          year who are trained.
circular
Component B: Health Service
Improvement
* Promote integrated        * December 1996     * County          * Monitored as a project
functioning of 3-tier       Health Conference;                    activity.
network.                    May 1997 CMS
circular
* Urban hospitals to support   * December 1996  * City and county
rural ones.                 Health Conference
* Recertification system for    * December 1996  * County health
rural health workers.       Health Conference    bureau



Project Appraisal Documwent                                                        Page 47
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
Component C: Cgooeratiize
Medical Svstem (CMS}
* Governent to take lead role  * December 1996  * County health   *Monitored as a project
in establishing CMS, andi to    Health Conference;   bureau      activity
provide adequate financial  May 1997 CMS
support.                   circular
* Mechanisms for communiity   * December 1996  * County
supervision and public     Health Conference;   govenmment
information.               May 1997 CMS
circular
* Strengthen role of People's   e May 1997 CMS  * County
Congress in CMS oversight.   circular          govemment



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 48
China                                                         Basic Health Services Project
Appendix 2-2
List of Project Counties
PART I:
Anhui Province       Zongyang        Lixin          Taihu          Jinzhai
Yuexi          Funan          Huoshan         Jingxian
_________ ________   _______________________Shucheng  Jixi
Chongqmg Murncipality  Yunyang      Jiuyang         Tiancheng      Qianjiang
Wuxi           Xiushan        Pengshui        Wulong
Gansu Provinice      Tuochang       Minxian         Lixian         Hezheng
Wudu           Lintao         Kangxian        Guanghe
Dingxi         Kangle
Guizhou Province     Dafang         Yanhe           Zhenming       Luodian
Nayong         Songtao        Guanling        Wuchuan
Pingtang       Zhengan
Henan Province       Yichuan         Songxian       Gushi          Xichuan
Yiyang         Ningling       Shangcheng      Nanzhao
Xixian         Taigian
Qinghai Province     Datong         Huangzhong      Minhe          Dulan
Huzhu          Ledu           Xunhua          Dari
Xinghai        Tongren
_________ _________ ________ M enyuan  Yushu
Shanxi Province      Tianzhen       Lingchuan       Yushe          Pingshun
Guangling      Qinshui        Zuochan        Wuxiang
Heshun         Qinxian
Loufan
PART II:
Ningxia Autonomous    Xiji            Haiyuan
Region             Tongxing-        Jingyuan
Shaanxi Province     Xixiang         Ningshan
Hanyin          Zhenba
Ningqiang       Lueyang
Zhashui         Zhen'an
Ziyane          Ankane
Sichuan Province     Quxian          Nanjiang
Xuanhan         Yilong
Chaotian        Nanbu
Wangcang        Langzhong
Cangxi          Jialingqu
Tongjiang       Guang'an



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 49
China                                                                  Basic Health Senrces Project
Appendix 2-3
Project Objectives and Performance Indicators 1
The project aims to achieve susizinable health improvement for
the populations of poor rural counties through:
(1) improved allocation and imanagement of health resources;    * Bed occupancy of THCs and CTHs.
* Ratio of OPD visits: professional staff in THC and
CTH.
(2) upgrading of health facilities at township level;      * # (%) upgraded health facilities according to the
CHRP.
(3) improved quality and effectiveness of health services and  * # (%) CTHs have both effective referral and
programs; and                                            supervision agreements with county hospitals and
using standard clinical protocols.
copayment
* A coverage measure for each priority intervention
selected by the county (see Attachment 1).
(4) increased risk sharing and the affordability of essential  * Number of townships with CMS schemes lasting
health care for poor families.                           two or more years.
* % of the eligible poor population receiving medical
financial assistance.
'Definitions of the indicators will be included in the PIP, and targets will be noted in the annual action plans.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 50
China                                                                  Basic Health Services Project
Component A. Planning, Management and Health Infrastructure
Al. Established system and capability for county health resource  * % counties with approved CBRP and annual review.
planning (CHRP).
A2. Upgraded health facilities at both central and general townships  * # (a ) upgraded health facilities according to the CHRP.
to meet the needs for their revised functions under the CHRP.
A3. Improved information system, which can provide useful and  * Guidelines with agreed content, format, frequency and
timely information to health service managers and other interested  distribution for township and county level reports.
parties at each level.                                     * # (%) counties providing satisfactory six monthly
project progress reports and annual health sector status
reports within target date.
Component B. Health Service Improvement
B 1. Improved quality of health services at township and village  . # (%) CTHs and THCs having effective referral and
level through: implementing referral and supervision agreements  supervision agreements with county hospitals.
between service levels; introducing standard case management  * # (%) CTHITHC using standard clinical protocols for
protocols; implementing national hospital procedures for infection  maternal and child care.
control and X-ray safety; and introducing policies and procedures to   * # (%/,) CTH/THC complying with national infection
reduce dangerous and excessive drug use.                    control requirements.
* # (%) CTH!IHC complying with national X-ray safety
requirements.
;* # (%) THC and village clinics using essential drugs.
B2. Improved county wide programs to prevent or control selected    * A coverage measure of the priority health interventions
high priority health problems for which cost-effective interventions    (see Attachment 1).
are available in China, but not yet adequately implemented in the
project areas.
Component C. Cooperative Medical System (CMS)
C1. Established cooperative medical financing schemes in the  * % townships with CMS schemes meeting agreed
project areas.                                              conditions for project support.
* % population covered by CMS.
* % township CMS schemes producing satisfactory
annual report and passing financial audit.
* % county CMS offices producing annual report with
comparative indicators on CMS schemes.
* % population satisfied with CMS.
C2. Established a program for medical financial assistance for the    * % of the poor among the eligible poor population
very poor.                                                  receiving support from the MFA Program.
* Amount of MFA Program expenditure.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 51
China                                                                  Basic Health Services Project
Component D. Proiect Coordination and SUPGOrt
D1. Provided the structure for effective project planning, budgeting,  * # provinces with fully staffed PMO.
management and technical supervision at provincial and central  * Average time for claim and disbursement cycle in each
levels.                                                      province.
D2. Improved the capacity of provilnces to provide technical support  * Number of visits by provincial experts to the project
to the project areas and to dissemninate the experience gained in  counties.
project areas to other counties.                            * % of counties complying with their annual training
plans by component
D3. Ensured that the central level can provide technical support to    * Number of visits by central experts to the project
the provinces and use the experience of the project to contribute to  provinces.
policy development and national dissemination.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 52
China                                                                Basic Health Services Project
Attachment I
Indicators for Coverage and Affordability of Priority Interventions
1. MCH
(a) Pre-natal care
(b) Institutional delivery
(c) Post-natal visit
2. EPI
(a) Township with 6 cycles
(b) Inmunization rate of 4 vaccines
(c) Price to complete 4 vaccines
3. Tuberculosis
(a) New smear positive cases
(b) Cure rate of new cases
(c) Cure rate of old cases
4. Hepatitis B
(a) Rate of first dose for neonates
(b) Rate of third dose for infants
(c) Cost for three doses for infint
5. IDDC Control
(a) Coverage of fully iodized salt at household level
(b) # iodine capsules given to children
(c) # iodine capsules given to pregnant women
6. Dewonning
(a) # treated school students
(b) % students treated
(c) Price per dose
7. Cataract
(a) Number of cases found
(b) Number of operations
(c) Price of operation



Project Appraisal Documeent                                                        Page 53
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Appendix 24
Guidelines for Establishment and Operation of Medical Financial Assistance (MFA) Programs
Introduction and Objective
1.    The main objective of the Medical Financial Assistance (MFA) Program is to subsidize the costs of
selected basic health services for the poorest families living in the project areas so that they can afford these
services. Past experiences have demonstrated that this objective can only be realized by improving the
quality of health services as well as the accessibility. Investments in service improvement measures can
meet the project's statecl objectives only if the services are affordable to the target families. Therefore,
each project county will establish a MFA Program.
Populations Covered
2.    Each county will ensure that the populations selected to be eligible for assistance under the MFA
Program represent the lowest income population of the concerned projects area. The proportion of the
eligible population will be as agreed with IDA.
Selection of Eligible Feaniilies
3.    Eligible families will be selected by the villages by ranking the families based on their income
levels. The villages will send the list of selected families for review and confinnation by the township level
and the township will send the list for final check and confirmation by the county level. The provinces will
ensure that the counties' selection of eligible families are based on the agreed criteria.
Benefits Covered
4.    The MFA Progranms will only cover those benefits that the counties can afford and are critical for
the basic health needs of the poorest families. Each MFA Program will have to specify the covered
benefits, which will have to be approved by MOH and concurred by IDA. The minimum package is
expected to include the following:
Maternal care, including prenatal care,
new method delivery and post-natal visits:     100 percent of the costs
Immunization under EPI:                         100 percent of the costs
In-patient care of common illnesses:            40 percent to 70 percent of the costs
Reimbursement Procedure
5.    The patients will pay their designated shares at the time of the service provision. The share of the
MFA Program will be billed by service providers directly to the MFA Program for reimbursement.
Management
6.    The responsibility to manage the MFA Programs will lie with the concerned county. Each MFA
Program will be independently managed under the supervision of a county MFA Program Leading Group
closely aligned with the county project implementation office. The MFA Program Leading Group should
include representatives froro the bureaus of healt, finance and planning.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 54
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
7.    Each province will provide guidance and technical support to oversee and coordinate the
management and finance of the MFA Programs in the project counties. Each province's Project Leading
Group will be responsible to ensure that each MFA Program has followed appropriate accounting practices
and to ensure that each MFA Programs accounts are audited annually by independent outside auditors.
Accounting and Auditing
8.    Modern and transparent accounting practices and strict annual audits by independent auditors are
two of the most vital requirements for a successful MFA Program. Each MFA Program proposal must
clearly specify its proposals in these respects.
Establishment and Effectiveness of Part B Counties
9.    In order for Part B counties to qualify for project financing, each MFA Program will have to
complete the following steps:
(i) Each project county should prepare a detailed proposal for the MFA Program consistent with
the requirements specified in this report, which should be thoroughly reviewed and approved
by the concerned provincial Leading Group; and
(ii) Each project province will send the MFA Program proposals of the first batch of the counties
to MOH for its review and approval. MOH will then forward the proposals along with its
comments for IDA's review and no objection. The remaining proposals will be approved by
MOH following IDA's comments on the first batch.



Summary of Selected Interventions and Estimated Beneficiaries for First Group of Part I Counties
Intervention      Qinghai          Henan          Chongqing        Guizhou        Gansu           Anhui           Shanxi      Tota  Populatlio 
Coun" Pop. County  ____ ____    ___~~~~~~~~~~~~PP. 
Coty     op.   County |        Pop.  County   Pop.  County  POP.  County  PoP   County   Pop.  county  Pop. (10,000) Covered
___~~_  1__ __                                   _ _                 _                                                _
MCH             Ledu        29.20 Yichuan    69.00 Wui       49.94 Dafang   88.19 Lintao    51.50 Yuexi    40.10 Tianzhen  19.64 1
Huzhu       35.90 Yiyang    63.00                 Nayong   68.19 Tuochang  27.80 Funan    139.47 Qinshui   20.98e
Songxian   51.00                 Yanhe   48.83                Lixin      131.17 Guangling  16.041
1Ningling    56.00          4    Songtao  57.66           7  
I u5.1           239.00            49.941       262.87          79.30           310.74          56.66 1,063.61 1,084,882
EPI            Ledu         29.20                Yunyang   122.52                               Yuexi      40.10
Jiuyang    69.54                              Funan     139.47
Wuxi       49.94
Xiushan    56.15
SubtotalEPI                 29.20                           298.15          -   _           -   _  1    179.57           |        506.92   86,176
TB              Ledu        29.20 Yiyang    63.00                 Yanhe   48.83                                 Lingchuan 24.85
Huangzhong  43.90 Songxian   51.00                Nayong   68.19
Huzhu       35.90 Ningling    56.00                Songtao  57.66
Datong      40.70
Subtotal TB     _          149.70           170.00       1_1 174.68                              _____I_                   24.85  519.231   1,973
]DD             Datong      40.70 Yichuan    69.00 Yunyang   122.52|Yanhe   48.83 Minxian   42.50 Zongyang   93.96
Jiuyang    69.54|Nayong   68.19               Lixin     131.17
lgDafang I57.66
Subtotal IDD                40.70            69.00           192.06        205.21        | 42.50          225.13         |        774.60  790,092,
Hepatitis B     Huangzhong  43.90                 Xiushan    56.15               Mi| | an   42.50 Zongyang   93.96
Tuochang  27.80
SubtotalHB      _           43.901                           56.15                         70.30         193.96 ______264.31   44,933
Cataract                         Yichuan    69.00                                Tuochang  27.80                 Tianzben  19.64
Qinshui   20.98
Guangling  16.04
Lingchuan| 24.85                    to
Subtotal Cataract _                          69.00                                         27.80                 _ _      1 81.51  178.311  80,953    g
Dewormin       I                 Yiyang     63.00                                Lintao    51.50
I   I            I                                I'      I      IWudu     51.00
SubtotalDewonm.  _                          63.00 _        ____| 102.50| _                                        ____| 165.50  393,890
Wm                      -                                                        Minxian   42.50                               r 
l   l        l                                l       l     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~~Wudu      51.0           II      -
ISubtotal Inj   I                            - _                      -      -93.5                        I                         93.501
Total    j            328.601         610.00           596.30        642.76         415.90           80940          163.02 3,565.9812
-   -  -  -   -    -      -       -      -       -        -       -      -       -       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 56
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Estimated Project Costs
By Project Component
Part I. Basic Health Services
A.   I!nproved Planning, Management and Health hifrastructure
Al.  Improved Health Sector Plnin                                  0.65
A2.   Upgrading of Township Health Facilities                     39.41
A3.   Improved Management Information System                       2.25
Subtotal Component A                                                     42.32
B.    Health Service Improvement
B1.   Improved Health Service Delivery                             6.15
B2.   Priority Health Interventions                               17.51
Subtotal Component B                                                     23.67
C.    Cooperative Medical System (CMS)
Cl.   CMS                                                          8.12
C2.   MFA Program                                                  4.33
Subtotal Component C                                                     12.45
D.    Project Coordination and Support                                    7.34
Total Baseline Cost                                                      85.78
Physical Contingencies                                             5.36
Price Contingencies                                               16.08
Note: Differences due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 57
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
By Project Component
Part H. Oinba Health Program
A.    Health ServipeDelivr
Al.   MCIH Service                                                 7.38
A2.   EPI Seivice                                                  2.24
A3.   Prioiity Disease Interventions                               2.42
A4.   Emergency Transportation and Communication                   0.77
A5.   infrastricture Support                                       1.50
Subtotal Component,A                                                     14.31
B.    Health Service IJtilization                                         3.40
C.    Project Coordination and Support
Cl.   County Level                                                 0.36
C2.   Prefecture and Province Levels                               0.53
C3.   National Level                                               0.23
Subtotal Component C                                                      1.12
Total Baseline Cost                                                      18.83
Physical Contingencies                                             0.94
Price Contingencies                                                2.21
Note: Differences due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 58
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Introduction
1.    The Basic Health Services Project is an investment project which will assist the govermnent to
implement policy reforms for health care in poor rural areas. Project preparation took place largely in
parallel with the World Bank's sector study, Financing Health Care, which was published in September
1997, as part of the "China 2020" series (referred to in this annex as the sector report). The sector report:
(a)    highlights the continued importance of improving health as a strategy for poverty reduction in
China;
(b)    reviews recent trends in health sector finance, with rising overall expenditures accompanied by
decline of public investment in critical public health and clinical interventions;
(c)    notes the decline in China's performance, relative to other countries, on key health indicators,
which has accompanied these financing trends;
(d)    documents increasing inefficiencies in the health sector in the past decade, including: distorted
incentives from the movement toward fee-for-service provider payment, loss of risk pooling as
rural insurance coverage has declined, duplication of health facilities due to inadequate local
planning, and the imbalance and some oversupply in the health workforce; and
(e)    provides cost estimates for a range of recommendations to improve rural health and assesses the
capacity of public financing to implement these. The study concluded that the per capita annual
increase in expenditure needed to cover the recurrent costs of a key package of interventions would
lie well within the projected fiscal capacity of governments at various levels; but the issue of
funding arrangements during the transition would need to be addressed.
2.    Much of the economic analysis justifying the project design is detailed in the sector report, which
was prepared with assistance of national experts and MOEI, as well as project team members. The report
recommendations are consistent with the policy decisions for rural health included in the Decision Paper on
Health Reform and Development released by the State Council in January 1997.
3.    This Annex provides a short background note on the effect of recent economic reforms on the rural
health sector in China and the new policy response, and then covers some issues not addressed in detail in
the sector report or in the main text of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The topics are organized in
accordance with relevant sections of the Guidelines for Economic Analysis of Projects of the East Asia and
Pacific Region, November 1995. These are: A. Linkage with Country Assistance Strategy and Economic
Sector Work; B. Consideration of Altematives; C. Financial and Fiscal Impacts; D. Cost Benefit and
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis; and E. Poverty Targeting. Associated project background papers are noted
in the text and included in the attached reference list.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 59
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Background: Effect of Economic Reforms on Rural Health and the Policy Response
4.    Economic reforms in China which began in 1978, and decentralization of government finance since
the mid-1980s, affected the provision and utilization of health care for the rural poor in the following ways:
*  The rural CMS, which relied on communal finance, ceased operation in many areas;
*  Uneven economic development led to increasing disparities in rural incomes and in the fiscal capacity
of provinces, prefectures and counties;
*  The share of public funding has declined, with concomitant increased reliance on user fees; and
*  The quality of primary and secondary care facilities has deteriorated due to underfunding and
inefficiencies in the delivery system.
5.    China's publicly owned, three tiered rural health system has become dependent on private finance
and fee-for-service income. The epidemic prevention station (EPS) and MCH programs must also generate
most operating reveniues from fees, resulting in a reduced emphasis on public health and increased
emphasis on revenue generating services. The present incentive structure has discouraged mutual support
and coordination between service levels, which are needed for an effective rural health system. Utilization
of township level services in particular has fallen as a result of these influences.
6.    Recent analysis of health status data for China shows that the steady trend for improvement in key
indicators (from 1949 to the early 1980s) has since slowed. Although further data is needed to document
the extent of this change and the contribution of different factors, the decline in health system performance
is believed to be real, aind to be particularly related to organizational and economic changes which took
place in the rural areas (ref. sector report, pp 2, 12-13).
7.     The Government has responded to the changing situation in the health sector with increasing
commitment to policy reform. The official 1990 program goals for achieving "Health for All by Year
2000" called for eight percent of county and township budgets to be spent on health. The Ninth Five Year
Plan (1996-2000) provided for increased public investment in health, and mobilized funds for the first
phase of the "Three i[teins Construction Project" to improve health facilities, equipment and staff training at
township and county levels. The preparation of this project included ongoing dialogue on health investment
and health financing methods, concurrent with the Government's formulation of the Decisions on Health
Reform and Development announced by the State Council in January 1997. The project design is a
reflection of the Government's policy initiatives, and is seen as an opportunity to demonstrate the
implementation of these policies. Conversely the policy framework is essential to achieving the project
objectives. For participating counties, the project provides bridging finance for infrastructure upgrading
and for establishing new financing channels for public health programs and participation by the poor,
which will be maintained by mobilization of public funds. Section C of this Annex discusses public finance
issues in greater detail.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 60
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
A. Linkage to Country Assistance Strategy and Economic and Sector Work
8.    The 1997 sector report "Financing Health Care", discussed above, was preceded by other World
Bank studies of health problems and health care issues in China, including the 1990 sector study (China:
Long-Term Issues and Options in the Health Transition) and the 1993 World Development Report,
Investing in Health. The Bank's CEM for China, updated in 1996, and the current CAS also stress the
need for greater public investment in health, especially focusing on the rural poor. The project will advance
two important srands of the Bank's assistance strategy for China as expressed in these documents: (i)
assistance with poverty alleviation and human development by meeting the basic health needs of the rural
poor; and (ii) improvement in public funding of essential social infrastructure through reform of the health
finance system. The findings and recommendations of these documents are summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Links to Economic and Sector Work
World Development Report, 1993. Recommendations:
Finance and ensure delivery of a public health package.
Finance and ensure delivery of essential clinical services, at least to the poor.
Improve the management of public health services.
Country EconomicMemorandum, 1996.
Findings:
Education and health are underfunded in China. Adequate provision of health services
requires increased public expenditures of about 1.2 percent of GDP.
Provinces with lower per capita incomes tend to have lower health and education
expenditures per capita, higher private costs and poorer social indicators.
Regional distribution of government revenues and expenditures should be improved.
Recommendations:
Develop inter-governmental grants scheme.
Research fiscal transfers at sub-provincial level.
Health Finance Sector Report, 1997. Recommendations:
Provide full public funding for EPS and prohibit user fees for public health.
Develop a strategic plan for public health to guide public health agencies.
Improve access of the rural poor through:
Subsidies to facilities or health programs for cost-effective interventions.
Subsidies to community financing schemes in poor areas.
Promote risk pooling in rural areas.
Contain costs and improve efficiency through measures that include:
Regional planning to improve investment decisions and coordinate levels of care.
Manpower planning, training of hospital managers and increased management
autonom  min health institutions.



Project Appraisal Docurnent                                                        Page 61
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
B. Analysis ofAlternatives
This section summarizes the discussion on alternative approaches for improving health status, the
range of possible fimctions of the CMS financing schemes and the role of the public sector.
9.    Alternative Approaches for lmprovin2 Health Status. Investments outside the health sector were
not considered as a strategy for this project. Several IDA credits have been provided to China for
improving basic education, water supply and sanitation in poor rural counties. As noted in Background
Paper 1, some analysis indicates that such investnents are not more cost-effective an targeted health
service improvements in achieving specific gains in health, although there are complementary additional
social and economic benefits, and the potential for optimal health effects should be taken into account in
design of water and sanitation projects. Current information in a range of settings highlights the value of
using low-cost targeted health improvements to accelerate income growth in poor households, rather than
waiting for the longer term improvement in health which might be expected from income growth from other
sources. The approach adopted for the project has the potential to break the vicious cycle linking poverty
and ill health, and thus to help narrow the growing gap between the poor and other groups in China.
10.   Altemative AMproaches to Health Care Financing. The capacity of the project to support improved
risk pooling for health care expenses was investigated in detail. Membership of govemment and labor
health insurance schemes, which cover workers in county level government units and official enterprises, is
not widespread in the project counties, and very few residents of the project areas are members. In
Yichuan, a pilot counity of Henan Province, for example, these schemes account for only 2.6 percent of
health expenditure. The Govemment's decision, taking account of social and political constraints, to begin
the reestablishment of CMS schemes through voluntary membership, with low personal premiums and
limited public funding, means that the schemes would initially offer low reimbursement rates and provide
very little risk-sharing. However, some schemes propose to include a small risk fund which would provide
higher reimbursement to particularly needy cases on an ad hoc basis.
11.   Two options were considered in assisting the very poor to participate in CMS schemes supported
by the project -- subsidizing their copayments or subsidizing their premiums. The project team concluded
that subsidizing copayment for services used by the very poor is preferable, because it would represent a
more direct benefit to the households concerned. In the circumstance of high copayments, better off people
would be expected to use the scheme more than the poor (because copayment requirements might continue
to deter the poor), so sulbsidizing premiums would not be so well targeted to poor families.
12.   The feasibility of using the CMS schemes as prepaid providers of care (to encourage cost
containment), compared with serving as third party insurers (with incentives for cost escalation) was also
explored. Within the constraints of national policy and the project environment, it was not considered
feasible to initiate prepaid provider schemes. However, control on service content and quality will be
exercised by the CMS payer over the provider, and service costs will be monitored. In this way incentives
for excessive prescribing, which is a large part of present medical expenditure, would be reduced.
13.   Role of the Public Sector. Project components address the equity and efficiency enhancing roles of
govemment in different mixes. Extension of facilities and services to underserved rural areas -- involving a
substantial proportion of project resources -- serves equity objectives principally. Yet the manner of this
extension, through the CHRP, is explicitly designed to enhance efficiency as well. Improving facility
utilization, quality of care and drug logistics will also serve both equity and efficiency aims. The main
strategy to meet the project's efficiency objective is to reorient public sector expenditures to obtain



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 62
China                                                                 Basic Health Services Project
maximum health gains from resources available; a secondary strategy is to assist in establishing risk-
sharing mechanisms through CMS, within the limitations imposed by the present national policy guidelines.
14.   In principle, the public sector role might best be limited to financing, mandating insurance coverage
and appropriate regulatory and information sharing responsibilities, with service delivery left to the private
and cooperative sectors. In practice, China's unusual starting point - essentially private financing of
public sector service delivery -- makes it difficult to proceed very rapidly in a project context with
substantial reforms. The project's more modest aim is to assist provincial and county governments toward
a more appropriate public role by encouraging greater state financial responsibility for basic care, by
improving the efficiency of public sector resource allocation, and by encouraging alternatives to the public
sector for service delivery (through CMS strengthening). An important elernent of improving resource
allocation is through active intervention where there are public goods or externalities present, that is much
of traditional public health, through which China achieved much of its impressive progress in health
improvement in earlier decades. Project design particularly supports those public health interventions
found to be cost-effective (see para 33 below). For example MCH, immunization and tuberculosis control
programs will be funded by the project in all counties unless already adequately supported.
C Financial and Fiscal Impacts
This section covers the issues of pricing policy, public affordability and sustainability, and comments on
the distribution of the benefits of the IDA credit.
15.    Pricing Policy. The project will help the government to address long-term issues of pricing policy.
Longstanding unrealistic fixed prices for basic services and decline in public funding have led to reliance on
fee for service with incentives to overservice and overcharge on those items not subject to price control.
Increased public sector funding for recurrent costs, preventive programs and essential health services in
township facilities are included in State Council policy decisions (1997), although there is no commitment
to full funding, or to restoration of subsidies for village health workers. Overall price effects are therefore
unpredictable. One objective of the project is to increase public funding for high priority interventions so
that service charges for these programs can be reduced or abolished.
16.    Public Affordability. The project will be carried out within a macroeconomic policy context that
has been analyzed in the 1996 CEM. Recommendations there call for public expenditures on health and
education to increase by 1.2 percent and 0.9 percent of GDP, respectively. Social expenditures are
recommended to increase in total by 4.7 percent of GDP over the next four years. Additional government
revenues to finance this increased level of expenditure are estimated to be six percent.
17.    The CEM has pointed to the cost of social insurance as a major issue in the financial viability of
state owned enterprises, and recommends a transfer of the costs of these programs to government. Social
insurance costs are also a critical issue in health systems finance, as demonstrated by data from Yichuan,
one of the project's pilot counties (Table 4.2). In Yichuan in 1994, the cost of salaries (or pensions) for
retired health care workers was equivalent to 10.7 percent of the total salary costs of publicly owned health
care institutions, and 41 percent of government contributions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 63
China                                                                     Basic Health Services Project
Table 4.2: Revenue and Salarv Costs of Public Health and Health Care Institutions
Yichuan County, 1994 (1,000 RMB Yuan)
Source of Funds
Government             180            1,239          1,419     10.1%
Private                718           11,850        12,368      89.9%
Total                  898           13,089        13,987    100%
..f....................... ........................ ......... ................................... ...... .......................... ................ ......... 1
Salaries
Retired Staff           30              558           588      10.7%
Active Staff           230            4,170          4,888     89.3%
Total                 260             4,728          5,476    100%
18.    The transfer of the salary costs of retired staff from health budgets to social insurance budgets
would free up sufficient funds to replace three-quarters of the private revenue presently eamed by the EPS
and MCH public health programs. Converting these programs to public finance, as recommended by the
sector report, would also help to reduce incentives for revenue generating activities which have developed
in the last decade.
19.    Small increases in public finance could lead to major improvements in access to MCH and
immunization programs. With the present level of underutilized labor in the health sector, economists have
suggested that it would be possible to accommodate a substantial increase in demand for public health
programs at low marginal cost -- in fact a recent study assumes that supply may be perfectly elastic (Hsiao
1995).
20.    In 1994, spending by all levels of govemment represented only 10.4 percent of total health
spending in Yichuan County. The effect of the recommendations would be to increase the government's
share to 16.6 percent. (Similar analysis for other project counties will be possible from baseline surveys.)
21.    Sustainability. A key requirement for assuring adequate counterpart finance and sustainability of
project effects is the maintenance of budget allocations for rural and public health as a percentage of the
overall county budget. 'Ihese will be monitored during the project.
22.    Table 4.3 provides a prototype analysis of financial requirements for sustainability, using data
from a draft of the Yichuan County proposal. The assumptions used in the analysis are: (i) counties will
need to continue average annual recurrent expenditure after the project ends; (ii) the six year allocation for
recurrent expenses can be averaged to estimate post-project expenditure (the average includes contingencies
for inflation); and (iii) county budget allocations for health will continue to grow in real terms at rates
comparable to the last five years. Recurrent costs in the project consist of: (i) CMS seed funds; (ii) the
medical financial assistance fund for the very poor; (iii) program support, and (iv) operation and
maintenance. Non-recurrent costs include upgrading of facilities and equipment and most of the staff



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 64
China                                                                 Basic Health Services Project
training. No major increase is expected in recurrent cost as a result of fixed investment, as the project is
upgrading existing facilities and present staffing levels are adequate or, in some cases, surplus to
requirements.
23.    The analysis for Yichuan County suggests that real growth in budget allocations will be sufficient
to finance incremental expenditures for project programs. Where this does not hold true in other counties,
the analysis will indicate the degree of reallocation necessary to sustain the programs. Some counties have
forecasted decreasing annual contributions to CMS seed funds, on the theory that the CMS schemes will
achieve self-sufficiency as their popularity grows. This assumption will be tested during implementation.
24.   In addition to expected growth in government budget, increased demand resulting from service
improvements may match all or a large portion of project funding of recurrent costs. Improved services at
village and township level have the potential to improve usage of these institutions relative to county
hospitals. This would reduce average treatment cost as well as private travel and time costs, due to people
using services closer to home. Studies have shown that these private costs are important determinants of
demand in rural areas.
Table 4.3: Analysis of Project Costs And Post-Project Budget Requirements
Yichuan County (Yuan '000)
A. Project Costs
21,652           15,620          5,992         1,198
B. Financial Requirements Analysis
Yr. 1991 IYr. 1996 IYr. 2003 IIncrement ITotal  IBalance
3,510   16,860   112,390L  5,330   11,198   4, 132
25.    The Distribution of Benefits of the IDA Credit. In China, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) makes
available the proceeds of the IDA credit to provinces and counties at substantially harder terms than it
receives from the Association. This arrangement has the effect of distributing the grant equivalent (GE) of
the credit between the different levels, according to the differences in financial terms. The loss in transfer
of GE to the intended beneficiary is a measure of the inefficiency of the onlending process, insofar as the
purpose of the credit is poverty alleviation. Given the costs and risks incurred by MOF in administering
IDA credit, and the lack of an alternative in China for obtaining funds for repayment (compared with role
taken by treasury in most other countries), the allocation of some part of the GE to MOF is understandable.
The discussion relates to what might be considered a reasonable level of inefficiency for a particular credit.
26.    Table 4.4 shows the allocation of the GE of the project's US$85 million equivalent of IDA credit
under three different discounting assumptions. As the table indicates, with a discount rate of seven percent,
which is considered reasonable, the grant equivalent of the credit, on current IDA terms, is US$62.8



Project Appraisal Docu:ment                                                            Page 65
China                                                                 Basic Health Services Project
million. Under MOF's financial terms for the project (Table 4.4, footnote 2), it is estimated that about 33
percent of the GE would accrue to MOF, leaving US$42.1 or 67 percent available to meet project
objectives.
Table 4.4: Allocation of the Grant Component of China Health VIII
(IDA Credit of US$85 million assumed)
A   i  | E          Wi                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~1-1:1,- rn'M 11
5°i p.a.    T     52.6    l 61.9        l    20.5      l39.0    l         32.1    l    1.0     l
7% p.a.     l     62.8    l 73.9        l    20.7      l33.0             42.1    l 67.0        l
9%p.a.  !    ~69.4    l 81.7       l     19.4     l28.0    l         50.0   l_72.0    l
Notes: 1. IDA terms to C'hina are for repayment over 35 years, including 10 years' grace with a service charge of
0.75 percent per annum.
2. MOF's termns to the provincestcounties are for repayment over 17 years, including five years' grace, at
an interest rate of 1..1 percent per annum.
27. However, China faces a dilemrna, due partly to the uneven distribution of its econornic growth and
by the limitations of the plresent mechanisms to transfer benefits from richer to poorer groups. Despite a
large population estimnatod to be still in poverty, China's overall per capita GDP is projected to exceed the
threshold for IDA eligibility in the near future. It has also been projected that by the year 2003, the level of
GJDP will oblige China to make accelerated repayment to IDA.. The terrns of accelerated repayment would
have the effect of reducing the GE of the credit and MOF's portion of it. (Background Paper 6, which was
discussed in draft with MOF during project appraisal, provides details of the calculation of the GE under
different conditions.)
D. CostBenefitandClo.st-EffectivenessAnalysis
28.    This section covers two illustrative and complementary analyses -- the costs of illness in poor rural
counties, and a quantitative estimation of the impact of health improvement on China's per c-apita income
levels -- followed by a swnmary of the rationale and methods for cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) of
health interventions selected for support in the project.
29.    Costs of Illness. Illness has been the cause of poverty for many families. Table 4.5 gives
estimates of the prevalence of poverty caused by ill health and its cost, from a recent study of 21 poor
villages from two counties in Shandong Province (Yuan, et al, 1996). Trained village and township doctors
were asked to identify :faniilies in which disease has caused poverty. Data were obtained from the families,
village cadres and accountants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 66
China                                                                 Basic Health Services Project
Table 4.5: Poverty Families and Income Loss Caused by Illness
Villages Sampled (21)      4,501        17,807        1,416           25,108
Poverty Caused by disease     127          232          (737)           (171)
Percent              2.8%         1.3%         46.4%            0.7%
Notes: Income data are for 1995. Per capita income loss is based on estimated income without disease of
1,590 Yuan and income with disease of 853 Yuan. Average family size based on published data.
30.    The study found that almost three percent of village families were living in poverty due to illness.
These families had above average earning potential, but suffered an income loss of almost 50 percent as a
result of illness of one family member (this includes lost income of other family members as well as the ill
person). The study calculated total economic loss, consisting of lost household income and costs of care
(including travel expenses of 20 percent of the cost of care) for the duration of the illness, up to the time of
the survey. The mean length of illness was 9.35 years. Table 4.6 estimates the present value of economic
costs of poverty inducing illness (assuming that income losses and medical expenses would continue
throughout the patient's life). The data confirm that major gains are potentially available through
prevention and cure of illnesses that reduce families to poverty.
Table 4.6: Annual and Lifetime Economic Cost of Poverty Induced Illness
Annual Cost per Household            2,373
Treatment:        1,024
Income Loss:      1,349
Average Lifetime Cost               49,702
Present Value (5% discount rate)    25,416
Notes: Average lifetime cost is based on mean costs for the
sample, eight ten-year age groups and an assumed life
expectancy of 75 years. The life expectancy
assumption results in zero lifetime cost for 19 of the
127 families where the ill person was 70 years or
older.
31.    Health Status and Income in China. Although assessment of health investment benefits in
economic terms is problematic, various partial analyses provide insight into the potential magnitude of
project benefits. The preceding section reported on assessment of costs averted; this section uses a
standard economic model of determinants of income level to assess how changes in adult mortality might
translate into changes in income. The income measure is purchasing power parity adjusted per capita
income; the determinants include physical capital availability, average number of years of education of
adult males and probability of dying between age 15 and age 60 for males. Table 4.7 summarizes the
results.
32.    The income elasticity with respect to mortality probability is estimated to be about -.5 globally and
to be almost -.9 for East Asia and Pacific (EAP). That is, globally, a ten percent reduction in mortality
rates would be predicted to result in a five percent increase in per capita GDP. A China-specific elasticity



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 67
China                                                                     Basic Health Services Project
estimate suggests the health effect for China to be substantially greater than for EAP. It should be noted
that while the point estimate for health elasticity in China is substantially greater than for the EAP region,
this difference was not estimated with statistical significance, and only the results for EAP are reported in
Table 4.7. While aggregate analyses need to be interpreted with caution, the magnitude (and high level of
statistical significance) of health's effect is strongly suggestive that project success in improving health
outcomes would have major income benefits for the poor.
Table 4.7: The Effect of Health Status on Income Levels. East Asia and Pacific. 1960-90
capital per capita (In)           .40         .41         .41
(14.2)     (14.7)      (14.5)
Mortality rate for adult males (In)        -.39        -.49       -.46
(4.8)      (5.7)       (5.3)
Average years of education, adult males    .035        .05        .054
(2.5)      (3.6)       (3.6)
Time (number of years after 1960)                     -.005       -.005
(3.1)      (3.0)
EAP (indicator variable taking value of                           2.31
'1' for countries in East Asia Pacific,                         (2.1)
'O' Otherwise)
MRXEAP (Interaction termn, mortality                              -.47
rate and E,AP)                                                  (2.4)
Constant                                  6.61         7.0        6.88
Overall R2                                 .83         .84        .84
Notes:  1. The dependent variable is the natural logarithm of PPP-adjusted per
capita income (Penn World Tables, 5.6).
2. The mortality rate is the probability of dying between age 15 and age 60 at
current age-specific mortality rates, expressed per thousand.
3. Entries in the table are regression coefficients with t-values in
parenthesis; estimation involved observations of 58 countries at 5-year
intervals during the period 1960-90, using generalized least squares with
a random effects model.
33.    Analysis of the Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions. Most discussions of health sector reform in
China focus either on the purely economic aspects or on aggregate economic/health aspects of the problem,
including inability of famnilies to afford care, the rise in total costs of coverage under insurance, financial
difficulties faced by health services and facilities, low utilization in poor areas, poverty caused by illness
and higher mortality in poor counties. Cost-effectiveness analysis, by looking at specific diseases and
alternative treatments, clearly demonstrates the following:



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 68
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
(a)   that equal attention should be paid to intervention-specific "quality and efficiency of care"
issues, which appear to have been relatively neglected in China's plans for health sector reform
(but which have been incorporated in this project);
(b)   that the most cost-effective programs include many preventive or promotive health
initiatives for which private demand is likely to be low. In order for society to benefit from these
large opportunities to reduce morbidity and mortality from these conditions, they need to be
publicly offered or regulated; and
(c)   that even when of high quality and economically efficient, these high priority programs
may not be affordable by the poor. If the public sector is going to provide economic assistance to
the poor in health care, it is sensible to start with those services which will have the most impact in
terms of the quality of life gained for the available funds.
34.    Under the project, a comprehensive burden of disease (BOD) analysis for China was presented and
discussed with the project's pilot provinces and counties, and adjusted using the county specific mortality
rates. BOD analysis allows a more comprehensive approach to assessing health problems in a population
than traditional measures based only on deaths (such as life expectancy and mortality rates) and it also
gives a measure of the contribution of specific illnesses to the total disease burden. Although BOD
analysis does not indicate which conditions are most amenable to reduction or control, it provides a starting
point for cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) of interventions or health programs aimed at specific diseases
or health problems.
35.   For the project, CEA focused on a small number of conditions for which previous work had shown
that health gains are inexpensive (highly cost-effective interventions) and on interventions for which current
demand, coverage and quality of care, particularly in poor counties, was expected to be low. These groups
would be high priorities for public provision or for public support and oversight. The analysis also
included interventions that are well accepted in China and of high priority to project counties and
provinces. Many of these programs are already public responsibilities, although they may have become
neglected or pushed too far into private financing and incentive modes. The CEAs and methods were
intended to provide to the counties and provinces a deeper understanding of the ultimate purpose of the
programs and the justification for stronger support through government regulation and public finance.
Table 4.8 shows the comparative cost-effectiveness of the selected interventions expressed in RMB (Yuan)
for each disability adjusted life year (DALY) saved.
36.    Guidelines produced for the selected cost-effective interventions included budget estimates for
those service improvements which are affordable for poor counties and would be supported by the project.
Counties were required to select two or more interventions which they judged to be important locally for
improvement under the project. The aim was to ensure that both the concept and the content of targeted
public health prograrns were an integral part of the larger effort of health sector finance reform under the
project. Information on costs and coverage, expected to be forthcomiing during the project through the
improved information system, will help to refine estimates of cost-effectiveness of the interventions in the
project areas.



Project Appraisal Documen,t                                                       Page 69
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
Table 4.8: Summary of Cost-Effectiveness Estimates
1. Tuberculosis         66       This is one of the most cost-effective interventions known, but only
____________  _ ___   when protocols are followed correctly.
2. EPI (childhood       100      Cost calculations should be updated with current county data and
immunization)                    current vaccine costs.
3. Tetanus Toxoid      202       Based on campaign approach in a county with 4/1000 baseline rate of
immunization                     neonatal tetanus and a 50 percent effective campaign. Actual cost-
effectiveness varies greatly depending on local rates.
4. Iodine deficiency   640       Based on current average burden of disease in China (with partial
control                          control already achieved), and on the incremental cost of a strong
county level program of monitoring, promotion and enforcement with
salt iodization already paid for. There is a lack of data from actual
Chinese program experience in tenns of expected success.
5. Premarital folate   780       Assumes baseline rate of neural tube defects of 5/1000 (found in
to prevent birth                 northern China), and that price of folate will be half that of the field
defects                          trial. Actual costs from county programs should be checked.
6. Maternal and      280'430     These are nominal figures, based on the assumption that all
neonatal health                  improvement comes from increasing institutional births, and assumed
(package)                        rates of increase. They need to be corrected against actual experience.
Range shows the effect of higher and lower pre-intervention maternal
________ and newbor mortality rates.
7. School based        390       Calculations are based on average BOD and project guidelines.
parasite control                  County specific burdens, actual costs and success rates should be used
_________________      ________ to revise this figure when available.
8. Hepatitis B         500       Assumes only one third of children receive first immunization at time
immunization of                  of birth and that ten percent of mothers are carriers (of whom 40
newborns                  _       percent have e antigen).
9. Tobacco control     200       This is an international price figure. Both the costs and success rates
of tobacco programs are highly variable. Experiences from China
________   would be valuable.
10. Cataract           430       This is cost-effectiveness of bilateral surgery for bilateral cataract
removal                          blindness. Other combinations have other costs. Keeping overhead
_ _______   costs low depends on doing large numbers of operations per county.
11. Injury           Unknown    Counties should study the patterns of injury and potential
prevention/                      interventions in terms of their cost-effectiveness prior to start of
treatment                        programs.
E. Poverty Targeting
37.   The main text of the PAD (Section E. 1) summarizes the mechanisms used to target the benefits of
the project to poor communities, and the selection of interventions and financing mechanisms to relieve
health problems of the poor and encourage their participation in project supported initiatives. All counties
participating in the project axe nationally or provincially designated poverty counties, located in poor
provinces of central and western China.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 70
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
38.   Poverty counties are at a disadvantage in any development project that requires substantial
counterpart contributions or repayment of resources borrowed from higher levels. This impediment to
participation was noted by the National Govenunent in its review of the Three Items Rural Construction
Program (referred to in para 7 above). Even though standards for facilities and equipment were set lower
than average for poor rural areas, it was found that the poorer counties were underrepresented in the
program at the time of the review. The requirement for counterpart funding of 50-60 percent from
townships and from county level MCH and EPS units was considered to be an important deterrent to
participation. Similar constraints apply to the participation of extremely poor counties in IDA supported
projects, due to the financial terms set by MOF and provincial governments.
39.    Another consideration in the selection of project counties is evidence of overall health status, with
preference for those with worse health indicators. However the relevant data may be incomplete for several
reasons, particularly in poor areas where funding for such public health functions as disease reporting has
been in decline and where there may also be problems with routine reporting of births and deaths.
40.    Two limited sets of data help confirm that overall selection of the first group of counties is
appropriate. First, Table 4.9 shows that the three project pilot counties have lower than average GDP and
rural income per capita, and above average prevalence of poverty and extreme poverty (annual income less
than 530 Yuan and 300 Yuan, respectively).
Table 4.9: Economic Indicators for Pilot Counties in Health VIII. 1995
Yichuan (Henan)       1,492       1,136             49.5                8.9
Tianzhen (Shanxi)     1,138        334              47.8                16.3
Zongyang (Anhui)      1,513        908              19.1                3.7
Rural China           3,228       1,578             5.4                 1.4
Source: Baseline survey data tables prepared by CHSI, MOB, 1997.
Notes: Averages for China from Statistical Yearbook of China, 1996, China Statistical Publishing
House. Rural GDP per capita calculated from county averages in Table 10-3. Poverty percentage
of 5.4 for rural China based on income of 500 Yuan.
41.   Secondly, analysis of 1990 census data from the first four counties in each of two project provinces
(Henan and Anhui; summarized in Table 4.10) indicate that the health and economic conditions in project
counties in Anhui are worse than the provincial average; while in Henan, on the other hand, the selected
counties are about the same as the provincial average (and noticeably better off than the provincial
averages for Anhui). The importance of improved targeting to disadvantaged counties for the second round
has been communicated. The county-specific analyses for these provinces are in Background Paper 5.
42.    The project has adopted a county wide approach to improving health systems, and the use of
CHRPs to achieve a rational allocation of resources has been a key initiative. Provisions to increase access
by poverty groups and national minorities include the focus on lower level services, which can be delivered
at relatively low cost, and the medical financial assistance program for the poor, which will subsidize
service costs and/or CMS premiums of households in the lowest five percent income bracket.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 71
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
43.    The two way interaction between poverty and disease is a major issue in rural China, and has
received great attention from the Government. The potential for effective treatment to moderate disease
caused by poverty is considerable; relief from financial risk will be sought for the very poor through a
medical financial assistamce program and through the reestablishment of CMS in some townships. Political
and institutional constraints for both these components, however, will limit their potential to achieve the
desired objectives; the project effort should be considered an experimental first step in these areas.
Table 4.10: Characteristics of Phase I Project
Counties Relative to Provincial Average, Anhui and Henan, 1990
Under-5        Coty1          56.7    44.8    13.5 County 1        39.5    39.5      9.8
Mortality      County 2       8666                  County2 237.1
Rate,          Cotnty 3       46.9                  County 3       39.2
Male           County 4       40.0                  County 4       45.2
Average        57.6                 Average         40.3
Under-5       C(ounty 1       60.2    46.1    17.6 County 1        39.3    38.3    17.2
Mortality      C'ounty 2     108.3                  County 2       34.4
Rate,          C'ounty 3      43.7                  County 3       31.5
Female         County 4       41.4                  County 4       44.2
Average        63.4                 Average         37.4
Life Expectancy County 1      64.0    67.7      2.9 County 1       66.0    67.4    2.1
at Birth,      County 2       59.8                  County 2       67.2
Male           C'ounty 3      67.9                  County 3       67.8
County 4       69.5                 County 4        68.9
Average        65.3                 Average         67.5
Life Expectancy County 1      66.8    71.6      3.7 County 1       70.4    72.0      2.8
at Birth,      County 2       60.2                  County 2       71.1
Female         County 3       72.5                  County 3       72.1
County 4       73.3                 County 4        74.0
_Average   1   68.21        |       | Average   |   71.91
Source: Background Paper 5, prepared by the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine.
Notes: 1. The numbers are based on international model life tables using county-specific death numbers. Similar
numbers are derived using Chinese model life tables. The results from these two different sets of life
tables are iderntical or close to identical.
2. County One is Congyang, County Two is Yuexi, County Three is Funan, and County Four is Lixin.
3. County One is Songxian, County Two is Yiyang, County Three is Yichuan, and County Four is
Ningling.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 72
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
Conclusions
44.    Complementary activities on several fronts are necessary to deal with problems of the rural poor in
China. A 1992 Bank Poverty Study provides the following profile of rural poverty and its effects on health
and health determinants (pg. x, para. iii, iv):
'The majority of the rural poor are now concentrated in resource deficient areas, and comprise
entire communities.. .The poorest households are typically those further disadvantaged by high
dependency ratios, ill health and other difficulties. Minority peoples are known to represent a
highly disproportionate share of the rural poor.. .Poverty... exacerbate[s] society-wide problems of
lower rates of female participation in education, higher relative female infant mortality rates, and
higher rates of maternal mortality.'
'At least 50 percent of the boys in many of China's poorest towns and villages and, particularly in
some minority areas, nearly 100 percent of the girls do not attend school and will not achieve
literacy. Infant and maternal mortality rates in very poor counties.. .are at least 50 percent to 100
percent greater than the national average, and are much greater yet in the poorest townships and
villages. Incidence of several infectious and endemic diseases, including tuberculosis and iodine
deficiency disorders, is concentrated in poor and remote areas. Roughly 50 percent of children in
households at or below the absolute poverty line are at least mildly malnourished, and iron, vitamin
A, and other micronutrient deficiencies remain a severe problem arnong the poor. As many as 90
percent of poor children suffer chronic helminthic infection.'
45.   Improved health services are but one component of a comprehensive approach to poverty
reduction. Yet such investments are essential to improving health status, achieving basic risk pooling and
extending access. There is now national policy commitment to the principle of rural poverty reduction
through improved health. While resource mobilization and allocation decisions do not yet reflect that
commitrnent, this project provides the opportunity to improve these decisions, and to demonstrate feasible
planning and financing approaches to implement them.
46.   The project addresses a high need group (the rural poor) that has been selected for special attention
in Bank assistance strategies and in Government policy initiatives. The project strategy is to improve
capacity and implement reform by simultaneously strengthening demand, supply and management.
Carefully developed plans, formulated within a hospitable policy and institutional framework, can result in
significant health and health system improvements in the project counties. Insights and achievement from
the project can become models for reform throughout rural China.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 73
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
Background Papers
1.    V. Hicks. HeaI6 Finance and Efficiency Issues in Yichuan County. August 1996.
2.    D. T. Jamison. A9llocation of Grant Equivalent of IDA Credit in Basic Health Services Project.
January 1998. (Project working paper).
3.    D. T. Jamison. Determinants of Health Status in China: Influences from Outside the Sector.
March 1998. (Revision of background paper for the sector study).
4.    J. Quinley and C. Murray. Estimates of the Burden of Disease in Three Rural Counties.
November 1996. (Project working paper).
5.    J. Quinley. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Health Interventions. February 1998. (Revision of a
project working paper).
6.    S. Jin, G. Yang, et al. County-Specific Estimates of Key Demographic Variables, all counties of
Anhui and Henan Province, 1990. October 1997.
References
Fu Wei, Luo Wujin, Wei Ying. Study of Health Care Financing and Organization in Impoverished Rural
Areas of China. Paper p:resented at the Workshop on Research on Policy. IHPP Annual Meeting. Beijing,
1995.
Hsiao, W. Community Health Care. Mimeo. Harvard University. 1995.
MOH. Mid-term Evaluation Report on Rural Health Three Items Construction Projects. Translated by
Hongwen Zhao. In Background Papers for Health Project VIII, Planning and Finance, Ministry of Health.
Beijing, 1996.
MOH. Background Papers For International Seminar of Health Reform Under Socialist Market Economy.
Beijing, 1993
Wenbo Xu. Flourishing ]Health Work in China. Social Sciences and Medicine, V. 41-8. Fall 1995.
World Bank. China: Strategiesfor Reducing Poverty in the 1990s. 1992.
World Bank. World Development Report, Investing in Health. 1993.
World Bank. Updating Country Economic Memorandum (Draft). 1996.
World Bank. China: Issues and Options in Health Financing. September 1997.
Yuan Changhai, et al. Quantitative Analysis of Poor Families Caused by Disease in Poor Rural Areas. In
Background Papers for H:ealth Project VIII, MOH. Beijing, 1996.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 74
China                                                                Basic Health Services Project
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Bank Fiscal Year Ending June 30
(US$'000, 1998)
Part I. Basic Health Services
.Project Costs
Investment Costs        7.8    21.7    23.1    16.6        2.5      2.3     1.2      1.2    76.3
Recurrent Costs         2.8      5.1      5.9     6.0      4.3      3.4     1.8      1.6    30.9
Total              10.6    26.8    29.0   22.6         6.8      5.6     3.0      2.8   107.2
La~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d4                              '..
IDA                    67.6%    67.4%    65.6%   66.9%        53.1%     60.2%    60.5%    65.2%   65.3%
Gover.nent             32.4%    32.6%    34.4%   33.1%        46.9%    39.8%    39.5%    34.8%   34.7%
Total              100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
Note: Differences due to rounding.
Part II. Qinba Health Progra
- .~~~~~~~~    -           //   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   /  ~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   47~MW/
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs        2.3      7.0     2.4      0.6      0.5      0.4                     13.2
Recurrent Costs              1.0                       1.5      1.6 1.7  1.4  1.5      6     8.7
Total               3.3      8.5      4.0     2.3      1.9      1.9      3.0          2. 0
IDA                    73.5%    70.9%    67.0%   65.9%   62.0%    60.0%   6.5       6.2    68.3%
Government             26.5%    29.1%    33.0%   34.1%    38.0%    40.0%   3.5      3.8    31.7%
Total              100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
Note: Differences due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 75
China                                                             Basic Health Services Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    The credit will be used to finance procurement of goods, civil works and services. Procurement
under the project will follow the two current Bank Group guidelines for procurement of goods, civil works
and services: (i) Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (Procurement Guidelines); and (ii) Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, and revised in
September 1997 (Consultant Guidelines). The China Model Bidding Documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used. All
consultant assignments will follow the Standard Request for Proposals - Selection of Consultants, dated
July 1997.
2.    The project's national level implementing unit, the Foreign Loan Office of MOH, has managed
procurement for six earlier IDA supported health projects, and most of the project provinces and many of
the counties also have experience of previous projects.
Summary of Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
3 .    Civil Works (Part I US$31.94 million; Part II US$4.13 million including contingencies). The
project will finance new construction of township health facilities as well as expansion and refurbishment
of existing facilities. There are two levels of township health facilities, smaller township health centers
(THCs) in most townships and larger central township hospitals (CTHs) in selected sites, which take
referrals from and provide outreach specialty services to the smaller centers. The value of work on any
individual health facility will usually be less than US$50,000. As many of the facilities are in remote
locations and as construction will be spread over time due to factors such as planning procedures and
clirnate, the work is unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders.
4.    Works contracts costing US$100,000 or more (not anticipated to exceed US$5.34 million in the
aggregate), will be procured through NCB. Smaller works contracts, each costing less than US$100,000,
not to exceed US$26.60 million in the aggregate, will be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified bidders, with the contract awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. Township construction
teams will be encouraged to bid. Minor repairs and works contracts estimated to cost less than US$25,000
in scattered and remote areas, may be procured by force account in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, not to exceed US$4.13 million in the aggregate.
5.    The County Desigi Bureau will be responsible for required design work, based on the functions of
the THC or CTH established in the project guidelines and on design manuals prepared for the project. The
County Construction Supervision Bureau will be contracted to undertake technical assessment of existing
buildings prior to design development and to carry out site supervision during construction. A system of
quality assurance will be introduced during construction and suitable safeguards for cost control and
payment against performance will be incorporated. Maintenance of township health facilities will be
carried out by the local facility, with management and supervision from county level, according to the
approved project guidelines, included in the PIP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 76
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
6.     Goods (Part I US$24.70 million; Part II US$6.73 million including contingencies). Goods
including equipment, vehicles, drugs, and materials will be procured for the project. Previous experience
with implementation of health projects in poor rural areas indicates there will be very limited use of ICB for
procurement of goods. The selection of an item for procurement through ICB may be based on technical
specifications (for some medical and communication equipment and vehicles), as well as the estimated
aggregate size of the package. Goods contracts of US$300,000 or above, and contracts for vehicles
regardless of contract cost, will be procured through ICB. Agreement has been reached on a list of selected
equipment items that will be procured using ICB, which is subject to review during project implementation.
Qualified domestic manufacturers will be eligible for a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent
or the prevailing rate of custom duty, whichever is less. Contract packages costing less than US$300,000,
not to exceed US$13.10 million in the aggregate, if not procured by ICB, will be procured through NCB
acceptable to the Association. International suppliers may compete in these procedures. Drugs for
tuberculosis treatment estimated to cost less than $300,000 each, not to exceed $1.5 million in the
aggregate, will be procured under contracts awarded through Limited International Bidding (LIB).
Contracts with an estimated value of less than US$30,000 each, not to exceed US$3.65 million in the
aggregate, will be awarded through national shopping procedures after solicitation and evaluation of at
least three written price quotations. Contracts, for proprietary items and items required for the purpose of
standardization, not to exceed US$ 1.0 million in the aggregate, subject to the approval of the Association
on a case-by-case basis, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
7.    Equipment lists for Parts I and II of the project have been prepared by the Borrower and reviewed
by the Association, and are detailed in the respective PIPs. The equipment lists will be reviewed during the
Mid-term Review, with a view to introducing newly available appropriate technology.
8.     Overseas and Local Training (Part I US$15.58 million; Part II US$2.05 million including
contingencies). This category includes training expenses such as courses, workshops, and travel and
subsistence allowances. Overseas study tours and placement of candidates in foreign institutions would be
made on the basis of relevance and quality, cost and prior experience, following government procedures.
Local training will be carried out in selected institutions on the basis of training programs described in the
PIP. Each county's annual training progress and the next year's plan will be reviewed by relevant
provincial experts, and reported to the project's expert group.
9.     Technical Assistance (Part I US$4.03 million; Part II US$0.43 million including contingencies).
Technical assistance (TA), provided by individuals and institutions, both local and international, will be
selected and contracted in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines. Most TA will be for contracts of
less than US$100,000, using Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications, or the procedures for
employing individuals. Quality-Based Selection will be used for a few specialized technical tasks,
including development and testing of alternative building designs and construction methods. IDA will
review progress reports and annual plans for technical assistance for provincial and central levels.
10.    CMS Seed Fund (Part I US$7.15 million including contingencies). This fund will be used to
supplement the household premiums for the CMS schemes supported by the project. IDA funds will not be
used for purpose.
11.    Medical Services (Part I US$4.30 million; Part II US$3.99 million including contingencies).
Through the mechanism of a MFA Program the project will fully or partially reimburse service providers
for approved health services to designated and eligible very poor families in the project areas. The county
health bureau will manage the fund, according to management and reporting requirements acceptable to the



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 77
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Association. Some costs of high priority medical services such as maternal care, and immunization and
tuberculosis treatment, used by other designated groups, may also be reimbursed to approved service
providers, according to contracts or guidelines acceptable to the Association.
12.   Program Support (Part I US$15.34 million; Part If US$3.54 million including contingencies)
will include: logistical support, medical (excluding vaccines) and other supplies, transportation,
accommodations, consumable materials, and allowances for health staff. Program support is critical to
reverse the recent decline in availability of funds for the management and maintenance of preventive health
care programs. In addition, by demonstrating the benefits of adequate program support, the project would
increase internal support for such expenditures in the Government. For these reasons, financing of
program support will be on a fixed rather than declining basis.
Thresholds for ProcurementMethods and Prior Review (Table B)
13.   Prior review by IDA of all stages of the bidding process will be required for: (a) the first two
proposed works contracts: from each province annually throughout the project, and all works contracts
valued at or above US$300,000; and (b) all goods contracts procured using ICB, LIB and NCB. In view
of the social objective of the project and using parameters developed in previous health projects, prior
review coverage will be of approximately 15 percent of works contracts and 66 percent of goods contracts.
14.   The Terms of Reference (TORs) for all central level technical assistance contracts will be subject
to prior review by IDA. Technical assistance contracts with firms of US$100,000 equivalent or more and
contracts with individuals of US$50,000 equivalent or more will require IDA prior review and approval of
budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports, and contracts.
Post Review
15.   It is expected that post review of documents related to 25 percent of contracts and direct purchases
will be conducted according to IDA guidelines. This arrangement will be assessed during the Mid-term
Review, and if indicated the percentage may be reduced.
Disbursement
16.   The proposed credit of US$85 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of six years, up
to the closing date of Jume 30, 2005. The allocation of credit proceeds according to expenditure category is
outlined in Table C.
17.   Disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for: (i) works under
contracts costing less than. US$300,000 each, excluding the first two proposed works contracts from each
province annually; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than US$30,000; (iii) contracts for the
employment of consulting firms valued at less than US$100,000 each, and contracts for the employment of
individuals valued at less than US$50,000 each; and (iv) training and program support. These limits are
based on previous experience, and the nature and complexity of the project. Documentation supporting the
SOEs would be retained by FLO in MOH and the Project Offices in the provinces and made available for
review by IDA supervision missions. All other disbursements from the credit would be against full
documentation.
18.    Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursement there will be 11 Special Accounts for the project, one
for each province and one for the center. The Special Accounts would be established in US dollars, in



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 78
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
commercial banks acceptable to the Association and on terns and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. The Special Accounts would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Accounts would be submitted monthly or whenever the
Account has been drawn down by about 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. The
aggregate initial deposits for the 11 Special Accounts is US$7. 1 million.
19.   To ensure timely start-up of the project, retroactive financing of up to SDR 6.0 million (US$8.1
million equivalent) would be available for payments made for eligible expenditures incurred after February
1, 1998 for Part I, and November 1, 1997 for Part II.
Proiect Accounts and Financial Reportin2
20.    Separate project accounts showing expenditure for project activities will be maintained by the BOF
at each level, and for central level expenditures by MOH. With assistance of MOF, a total project account
will be maintained by the central level PMO in two books, one for project provinces and the other for the
expenditure categories for the whole project. Each county and prefecture project office will submit regular
financial management reports to the provincial project office. Provinces will submit their financial
management reports regularly to the PMO in MOH for review and summary. The financial statements will
include the following:
*  Statement of Sources and Uses of Fund (including information on expenditure by disbursement
category).
*  Statement of Costs by Component, showing actual against the budgeted costs with variances.
*  Statement of Unit Variance, comparing the actual and planned physical output with the actual
and planned cost for each unit of output.
*  Special Account Reconciliation Statement, which will be the basis for replenishment.
21.    Project accounts would be audited by the State Audit Administration and/or its local offices in
accordance with standard practices in China, which have been found acceptable to IDA.
22.    The Borrower will submit three types of financial reports to IDA's disbursement office, in format
and at a frequency acceptable to the Association.
A.    Financial Statements as described above.
B.    Project Progress Report.
C.    Procurement Report for prior review contracts for goods, works and consultant services.
Financial Manazement
23.    Following the pattem of earlier IDA supported health projects, financial units will be included in
each project management office, with qualified staff and support staff. The Borrower plans to improve the
financial management arrangements for the project, through the following main actions: (i) phased
computerization of accounting and reporting systems; (ii) compilation of a reference manual to be readily
available in the finance units of all PMOs; (iii) focused training for financial staff, and (iv) introduction of
additional reporting formats to meet IDA's requirements. The Bank's resident mission in Beijing will
provide support in implementation of these actions, through training and technical assistance, and in review
and supervision of the financial management of the project. The resident mission disbursement staff will
screen financial documents before they are sent to Bank headquarters.



Project Appraisal Docum.ent                                                          Page 79
China                                                               Basic Health Services Project
Annex 6
Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Part I. Basic Health Services Project
Civil Works                                          5.34        26.60                       31.94
(2.53)      (13.26)                    (15.79)
Equipment, Vehicles, Drugs & Matenals     9.00      11.15          4.55                      24.70
(9.00)    (10.18)       (3.68)                     (22.86)
Training                                                          15.58                      15.58
(10.90)                    (10.90)
Technical Assistance                                               4.03                       4.03
(4.03)                     (4.03)
CMS Seed Fund                                                                7.15             7.15
MFA Program                                                                  4.30             4.30
Program Support                                                   15.34                      15.34
(11.79)                    (11.79)
Operation & Maintenance                                                      4.18             4.18
Unallocated
4.63)
Notes:
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
a/     =      This category includes consultant services, research and evaluation procured following
Consultant Guidelines; training; LIB; national shopping; direct contracting; force account;
small works; and administrative and operational costs.
N.I.F. -      Not IDA. financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the armounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 80
China                                                                 Basic Health Services Project
Annex 6
Table A2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Part 1E. Qinba Health Program
Ci-,il Works                                                        4.13                        4.13
(1.57)                      (1.57)
Equipment, Vehicdes, Drugs & Materials     2.87        1.95         1.60       0.31             6.73
(2.76)     (1.80)        (1.36)     (-.-)            (5.92)
Training                                                            2.05                        2.05
(1.77)                      (1.77)
Technical Assistance                                                0.43                        0.43
(0.43)                      (0.43)
MFA Program                                                         3.99                        3.99
(1.89)                      (1.89)
Program Support                                                     3.54                        3.54
(2.65)                      (2.65)
Operation & Maitenance                                                         1.11             1.11
Unallocated
g~~~~~1    I
Notes:
ICB    =      Intermational Competitive Bidding
NCB   =       NTational Competitive Bidding
a/     =      This category includes: consultant services; research and evaluation procured following
Consultant Guidelines; training; national shopping; direct contracting; force account; small
works; and administrative and operational costs.
N.I.F. =      Not IDA financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
cor sultancies un er trust funds, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amxounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
Differences due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 81
China                                                                     Basic Healthi Services Project
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Re-pew
Civil Works                > $100,000         NCB                          All contracts costing $300,000 or
rnore; and  e first two works
contracts from each province
aually regardless of the cost.
< $100,000         On the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three
qualified contractors eligible
under the Guidelines, up to an
aggregate not exceeding
US$26.6 million equivalent.
< $25,000         by Force Account as a last
resort in a manner satisfactory
to IDA, up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$4.13 million
equivalent.
Equipment, Vehicles,        > $300,000 and all ICB                         All ICB, LIB and NCB contracts.
Drugs & Materials                    vehicles
TB drugs < $300,000  LIB
Other goods < $300,000  NCB
Other goods < $30,000  National Shopping
Proprietary Items Direct Contracting
Training                           N.A.       Other                        Annual plans for overseas travel
and training for each year will be
submitted to IDA for review and
discussion.
Technical Assistance     $50,000 for individual  e Quality-Based Selection  All indiridual consultants
cornsultants and $100,000  * Least-Cost Selection    contracts costing $50,000 or more
for firms  * Selection Based on       and for consulting firns contracts
Consultants' Quali-fications  costing $100,000 or more. All
TORs for national level TA.
CMS Seed Fund                      N.A.       Other
Health Services and                N.A.       Service Delivery Contractors
MFA Program
Program Support                     N.A.      Other



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 82
China                                                                   Basic Health Services Project
Annex 6
Table Cl: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Part I. Basic Health Services Project
(1)    Civil Works                             15.79                     55%
(2)    Goods (excluding supplies and          22.86          100% of foreign expenditures,
materials under Program                               100% of local expenditures (ex-
Support)                                             factory cost), and 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(3)    Consultants' Services and               14.93         100% for consultants; and
Training:                                             70% for training
(4)    Program Support                         11.79                     85%
(5)    Unallocated                              4.63
Table C2: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Part II. Oinba Health Program
(I)    Civil Works                              1.57                     40%
(2)    Goods (excluding supplies and            5.92         100% of foreign expenditures,
materials under Program                               100% of local expenditures (ex-
Support)                                             factory cost), and 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(3)    Consultants' Services                    2.20         100% for consultants; and
(excluding Health Services) and                       90% for training
training
(4)    Program Support                          2.65                     80%
(5)    Health Services (Medical                 1.89         90% of expenditures incurred in
Financial Assistance Program)                         calendar years 1998 and 1999;
60% of expenditures incurred in
calendar years 2000 and 2001;
and 30% of expenditures
incurred thereafter.
(6)    Unallocated                              0.77
IN    INVENINVOIN     ~~~~~~~~~~/Og/gwwl/=Mpw ~ ~ ~ 9 -
./        ..A:                                            9/,AtX74~ .$..  V



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 83
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
324.9                441.4
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               14                  19
First Bank mission (identification)                 May 1996         May 20, 1996
Appraisal mission departure                         July 1997      January 5, 1998
Negotiations                                     October 1997      March 29, 1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       June 1998      August 31, 1998
Prepared by:         Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant; Consultant Trust Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Janet Hohnen (Senior Public Health Specialist and Task Team Leader), Jagadish
Upadhyay (Senior Projects Officer), Darren W. Dorkin (Operations Analyst), Zhao
Hongwen (Health Operations Officer), and Inani Haidara (Task Assistant). Maurice Le
Blanc and Manju ShanTa provided procurement advice; Claude Salem, Mary Judd and
Concepcion Del Castillo advised on social issues; Nicolette DeWitt was the legal counsel;
Hyung Min Kim and Yi-Ling Liu advised on financial management and disbursement.
Consultants who contributed included:
Vivian Lin (Deputy Team Leader), Gerald Bloom, Vernon Hicks, Dean Jamison, John
Malmborg, Maja Naur, Junko Otani, John Quinley, Chris Scarf, and Wang Zhenyu.
Peer Reviewers were:
Ok Pannenborg (AFTH4); Joseph Goldberg (ECSRE); David Peters (AFTH3); George
Schieber (MNSHD); Armin Fidler (LCSHD); and Richard Bumgamer and Aviva Ron
(World Health Organization, Geneva).
'Includes cost of both Part I (main project) and Part II (Qinba Health Program), prepared separately.
2 Includes preparation of County Health Resource Plans for Part I and pilots of preparation in three counties.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 84
China                                                              Basic Health Services Project
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A.    GOVERNMENT PROJECT DOCUMENTS
1.    Background Papers for Health VIII Project. April 1996 (a selection of reports by Chinese health
economists and MOH experts, covering: history of rural health insurance; financing and efficiency
of rural health facilities; Mid-tenn Review of Three Items Construction Project; and baseline data
on 8/7 poverty counties).
2.    Ministry of Health. Draft project framework. April 1996.
3.    Guidelines for Proposal Outline. June 1996.
4.    Intervention Guidelines. July 1997.
5.    Social Assessment Guidelines and Report of Pilot. December 1997.
6.    Provincial and County Proposals. Revised for Appraisal. December 1997.
7.    Project Implementation Plans
a.    Part I. Basic Health Services. March 1998.
b.    Part II. Qinba Health Program. March 1998.
B.    OFFICIAL POLICY DOCUMENTS
8.    Decisions of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party (CPC) and State Council on
Health Reform and Development. January 1997.
9.    Circular of the CPC Central Committee on Development and Improvement of Rural Cooperative
Medical Care. May 1997.
C.    BANK TEAM MISSION DOCUMENTS
[Main topics: policy framework; health information framework and management information
system; burden of disease; cost-effectiveness analysis and selection of health interventions;
institutional analysis; county health planning; facilities planning, design and construction;
cooperative health insurance and access for the poor; health service quality analysis and
improvement; and participation issues.]
10.   Consultant Reports, Field Visit to Chicheng County, Hebei Province. December 1995.
11.   Consultant Assessments and Guidelines, Identification Mission. May 1996.
12.   Consultant Assessments and Guidelines, Preparation Mission. November 1996.
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                               Page 85
China                                                                                            Basic Health Services Project
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in China
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Loan or    Fiscal
Project ID      Credit       Year        Borrower                   Purpose
No.                                                                       IBRD         IDA       Cancellations  Undisbursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 207
Active Loans
CN-PE-3591      IBRD43090    1998    PRC                 STATE FARMS COMMERCI                150.00           0.00             0.00         150.00
CN-PE-3606      IBRD43040    1998    GOC                 ENERGY CONSERVATION                  63.00           0.00             0.00          63.00
CN-PE-40185    IBRD42370    1998    PRC                  SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                 95.00           0.00             0.00          95.00
CN-PE-51736    IBRD43030    1998    GOC                  E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR               250.00            0.00             0.00         250.00
CN-PE-34081    IBRD42000    1997    PRC                  XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II               230.00            0.00             0.00         230.00
CN-PE-34081    IBRD42001    1997    PRC                  XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II              200.00            0.00             0.00         190.25
CN-PE-3590      IBRD41870    1997   PRC                  QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                 30.00           0.00             0.00          30.00
CN-PE-3590      IDAN0280       1997    PRC               QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                  0.00        150.00              0.00         141.21
CN-PE-3635      IDA28980       1997    PRC               VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                  0.00         20.00              0.00          16.61
CN-PE-3635      IBRD4063A    1997    PRC                 VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                 10.00           0.00             0.00          10.00
CN-PE-3637      IDAN0270      1997    PRC                NATL RUR WATER III                    0.00         70.00              0.00          66.25
CN-PE-36405    IBRD41790    1997    PRC                  WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA               400.00            0.00             0.00         358.66
CN-PE-3643      IBRD40990    1997    PRC                 XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II               300.00            0.00             0.00         268.81
CN-PE-3650      IBRD41720    1997    GOC                 TUOKETUO POWER/INNER               400.00            0.00             0.00         400.00
CN-PE-3654      IBRD41240    1997    PRC                 HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2               400.00            0.00             0.00         400.00
CN-PE-36952    IDA29540        1997    PRC               BASIC ED. IV                          0.00         85.00              0.00          76.95
CN-PE-38986   IBRD41610    1997    PRC                   HEILONGJIANG ADP                   120.00            0.00             0.00         117.00
CN-PE-44485    IBRD41970    1997                         SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                400.00            0.00             0.00         400.00
CN-PE-34618   IBRD3967A    1996    PRC                   LABOR MARKET DEV.                    10.00           0.00             0.00          10.00
CN-PE-34618    IDA28000        1996    PRC               LABOR MARKET DEV.                     0.00         20.00              0.00          15.60
CN-PE-3507      IBRD3933A    1996    GOC                 ERTAN HYDRO II                     177.68            0.00             0.00          51.63
CN-PE-3507      IBRD3933B    1996    GOC                 ERTAN HYDRO II                       88.84           0.00             0.00           4.04
CN-PE-3563      IBRD40010    1996    PRC                 ANIMAL FEED                        150.00            0.00             0.00         150.00
CN-PE-3569      IBRD39290    1996    P.R.C.              SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI               260.00            0.00             7.75         141.26
CN-PE-3589      IDA27940       1996    PRC               DISEASE PREVENTION                    0.00        100.00              0.00          78.99
CN-PE-3594      IBRD40280    1996    PRC                 GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                  60.00           0.00             0.00          60.00
CN-PE-3594      IDA28700       1996    PRC               GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                   0.00          90.00             0.00          70.50
CN-PE-3599      IBRD40550    1996   YUNNAN PROV.         YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                 125.00            0.00             0.00         125.00
GOV.
CN-PE-3599      IDA28920       1996   YUNNAN PROV.       YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                    0.00         25.00              0.00          16.54
GOV.
CN-PE-3602      IBRD39660    1996    PRC                 HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO               125.00            0.00             0.00         125.00
CN-PE-3602      IDA27990      1996    PRC                HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                  0.00         25.00              0.00          15.33
CN-PE-3638      IBRD40440    1996    PRC                 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                80.00            0.00             0.00          80.00
CN-PE-3638      IDA28860       1996    PRC               SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                  0.00         20.00              0.00          10.05
CN-PE-3646      IBRD40450    1996    PRC                 CHONGOQING IND POL CT              170.00            0.00             0.00         170.00
CN-PE-3648      IBRD39870    1996    SHANGHAI MUN.    SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                  250.00           0.00              0.00         211.80
GOVT
CN-PE-3649      IDA28340       1996    CHINA             SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                  0.00        100.00              0.00          49.20
CN-PE-3652      IBRD39860    1996    PRC                 2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY               210.00           0.00              0.00         178.56
CN-PE-36950    IDA28310       1996    PRC                BASIC ED. POOR III                    0.00        100.00              0.00          39.91
CN-PE-40513    IBRD40270    1996    PRC                  2ND HENAN PROV HWY                 210.00           0.00              0.00         198.00
CN-PE-3493      IBRD39106    1995    PRC                 INLAND WATERWAYS                   210.00            0.00             0.00         142.81
CN-PE-3571      IBRD38976    1995    PRC                 RAILWAYS VII                       400.00            0.00             0.00         392.00
CN-PE-3585      IBRD37880    1995    SOC                 SHENYANG IND. REFORM               175.00           0.00              0.00         122.24
CN-PE-3596      IBRD3874A    1995    PRC                 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                  97.26          0.00              0.00          65.06
CN-PE-3596      IDA27100       1995    PRC               YANGTZE BASIN WATER                   0.00        110.00              0.00           9.45
CN-PE-3598      IBRD37810    1995                        LIAONING ENVIRONMENT               110.00           0.00              0.00          75.09
CN-PE-3600      IBRD3847A    1995    PRC                 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME               194.99           0.00              0.00         174.53
CN-PE-3603      IBRD3773A    1995    PRC                 ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE               262.51           0.00              0.00         240.11
CN-PE-3603      IDA26420      1995    PRC                ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                  0.00         75.00              0.00           6.20
CN-PE-36041    IBRD38736    1995   14OF                  FISCAL & TAX REF. &                 25.00           0.00              0.00          25.00
CN-PE-36041    IDA27090       1995   MOF                 FISCAL & TAX REF. &                   0.00         25.00              0.00          17.73
CN-PE-3612      IBRD37870    1995    PRC                 XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                 150.00            0.00             0.00          95.75
CN-PE-3634      IDA26550       1995    pRC               MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                  0.00         90.00              0.00          33.43
CN-PE-3636      IDA26510      1995    PRC                BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                  0.00        100.00              0.00          17.64
CN-PE-3639      IBRD39066    1995    PRC                 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                47.50           0.00              0.00          35.59
CN-PE-3639      IDA27440       1995    PRC               SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                  0.00        200.00              0.00          99.00
CN-PE-3642      IBRD3846A    1995                        ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                154.15           0.00              0.00          93.74
CN-PE-3642      IBRD3846B    1995                        ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                215.67            0.00             0.00         178.66
CN-PE-3647      IDA26540      1995   P'RC                ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                   0.00         10.00              0.00           6.02
CN-PE-36947    IBRD3B48A    1995        OC               SICHUAN TRANSMISSION               270.00            0.00             0.00         196.37
CN-PE-37156    IBRD3914A    1995   I-RC                  IODINE DEF. DISORDER                  7.00           0.00             0.00           7.00
CN-PE-37156    IDA27560       1995   EPRC                IODINE DEF. DISORDER                  0.00         20.00              0.00          11.37
CN-PE-3502      IDA25390       1994   MOH                RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                   0.00        110.00              0.00          40.30
CN-PE-3504      IBRD37480    1994    ERC                 HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL H'WAYS    380.00                0.00             0.00         115.10
CN-PE-3540      IDA26160       1994   EPRC               LOESS PLATEAU                         0.00        150.00              0.00          41.90
CN-PE-3557      IDA26230       1994   EPRC               FOREST RESOURCE DEV                   0.00        200.00              0.00          94.86



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                           Page 86
China                                                                                         Basic Health Services Project
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Loan or    Fiscal
Project ID      Credit      Year       Borrower                  Purpose
No.                                                                     IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed
CN-PE-3562     IBRD37270    1994   PRC                 XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE            460.00          0.00             0.00          23.36
CN-PE-3586     IBRD3711S    1994   PRC                 SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT              160.00           0.00             0.00          79.76
CN-PE-3593     IDA25710      1994    PRC               SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                   0.00        205.00             0.00          58.55
CN-PE-3595     IDA25630      1994    PRC               RED SOILS II DEVELOP                 0.00        150.00             0.00          46.75
CN-PE-3609     IBRD3716A    1994   GOC                 SICHUAN GAS DEV &                 175.45           0.00             0.00         145.08
CONSERVATION
CN-PE-3622     IBRD3652S    1994   SHANGHAI            SHANGHAI MTP II                   150.00           0.00             0.00          10.39
MUNICIPAL GOVT
CN-PE-3626     IBRD3681A    1994   GOC                 FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                 80.33          0.00             0.00          60.53
CN-PE-3633     IBRD3687A    1994   GOVERNMENT OF   TELECOMMUNICATIONS                    132.76           0.00             0.00          79.19
PRC
CN-PE-3641     IBRD3718A    1994    PRC                YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER            248.16           0.00             0.00          89.75
CN-PE-3644     IDA26050       1994    PRC              XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT              0.00        110.00             0.00          37.65
CN-PE-3473     IDA24750       1993   P.R.C.            ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                 0.00        110.00             0.00          43.82
CN-PE-3509     IDA24570       1993   PRC               CHANGCHUN WAT SUPP &                 0.00        120.00            27.55          24.15
CN-PE-3512     IBRD3552S    1993   GOVT OF             SHANGHAI PORT REST.                124.26          0.00             0.00           5.11
PEOPLES REP.
OF C
CN-PE-3518     IBRD3530S    1993   PRC                 GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT         240.00           0.00             0.00          21.43
CN-PE-3526     IBRD3515A    1993   GOC                 SHUIKOU II                          43.86          0.00             0.00          18.40
CN-PE-3533     IBRD3572A    1993                       TIANJIN IND. II                     82.68          0.00             0.00          56.09
CN-PE-3559     IDA24620       1993   PRC               AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                 0.00        115.00             0.00          10.43
CN-PE-3561     IDA24110      1993   PRC                SICHUAN ADP                          0.00        147.00             0.00          22.59
CN-PE-3567     IDA24710      1993   PRC                EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                 0.00        100.00             0.00          48.24
CN-PE-3570     IBRD35810    1993   PRC                 RAILWAY VI                        420.00           0.00             0.00         125.14
CN-PE-3580     IBRD35820    1993   PRC                 SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.   250.00              0.00             0.00          29.05
CN-PE-3581     IBRD35310    1993   PRC                 HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT             120.00           0.00             0.00          16.15
CN-PE-3592     IDA24470      1993   PRC                REF. INST'L.&                        0.00         50.00             0.00         21.57
PREINVEST(CRISP)
CN-PE-3597     IBRD3560A    1993   PRC                 TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL          88.65           0.00             0.00          64.71
CN-PE-3597     IDA24630      1993   PRC                TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL            0.00        100.00             0.00           4.92
CN-PE-3616     IBRD3606A    1993   PRC                 TIANHUANGPING HYDRO               196.60           0.00             0.00          96.63
CN-PE-3623     IDA24230      1993   PRC                FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                 0.00         60.00             0.00          33.95
CN-PE-3627     IBRD3624A    1993   PRC                 GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P              325.00           0.00             0.00        325.00
CN-PE-3627     IDA25180      1993   PRC                GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                0.00         165.00             0.00          53.50
CN-PE-3632     IDA25220      1993   ROC                ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                0.00          50.00             0.00          14.91
CN-PE-3486     IBRD3406A    1992                       RAILWAYS V                         33.73           0.00             0.00         29.05
CN-PE-3492     IBRD3412S    1992   GOC                 DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                   28.88           0.00             0.00           2.83
CN-PE-3492     IDA23050      1992   GOC                DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                     0.00         37.00             0.00            .42
CN-PE-3503     IBRD3462A    1992                       ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE               26.78           0.00             0.00          14.02
CN-PE-3534     IBRD3471A    1992    PRC                ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP               70.13           0.00             0.00         26.59
CN-PE-3544     IDA23390      1992    PEOPLE'S          EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO                 0.00        130.00             0.00           4.06
REPUBLIC OF
CHIN
CN-PE-3555     IDA23070      1992    PRC               GUANGDONG AG. DEVT.                 0.00         162.00             0.00           7.36
CN-PE-3564     IBRD3415A    1992   BEIJING             BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                32.90           0.00             0.00         28.58
MUNICIPALITY
CN-PE-3564     IDA23120      1992   BEIJING            BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                 0.00          80.00             0.00           3.69
MUNICIPALITY
CN-PE-3565     IDA22960      1992                      SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                 0.00         60.00             0.00           3.75
CN-PE-3568    IDA23870       1992   R.O.C.             TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                 0.00        100.00             0.00          32.32
CN-PE-3587     IDA23360      1992    PRC               RURAL WAT SUPP & SAN                 0.00        110.00             0.00           1.80
CN-PE-3624     IDA23170      1992   MIN. OF            INFECTIOUS DISEASES                  0.00        129.60             0.00          51.41
PUBL.HEALTH
CN-PE-3478     IDA22100      1991   PRC                KEY STUDIES DEVELOPM                 0.00        131.20             0.00            .82
CN-PE-3560     IDA22420      1991    PRC               HENAN AGRIC. DEVT.                   0.00        110.00             0.00           3.22
CN-PE-3582     IBRD3337T    1991    PRC                IRRIG. AGRIC. INTENS               45.05           0.00             0.00           2.37
CN-PE-3472     IBRD29685    1988   PRC                 RAILWAY IV                        171.30           0.00             0.00           2.04
Total                                                                                   11,370.      4,426.80             35.30      9,283.23
12
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                6,441.79            12,596.06            19,037.85
of which has been repaid:                   17.17             2,122.25            2,139.42
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               15,744.44            10,116.00           25,860.44
Amount sold                      :                  0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                  0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              9,283.23                  .21            9,283.44
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of
Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU   highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901),
August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Page 87
China                                                           Annex 10                                      Basic Health Services Project
China at a glance                                                           8115197
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            East    Low-
China      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millobns)                    1,211.3     1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            750       890      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                            903.8      1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                       1.1        1.3     1.7      GNP                            Gross
Labor force (°X)                                      1.1       1.3     1.7      per                           primary
Most recent estmate flalest year available sinoe 1989)                           capita                     enroJiment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populatlon)             9
Urban population (% of toial population)              30        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (ysars)                      69        68       63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)             34        40       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of clVidren under 5)            17
Access to safe water (% copopulation)                 46        49       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  19        17       34               China
Gross primary enrollment 1% of school-age population)  109     117      105
Male                                                 .       120      112               Low-incone group
Female                                              ..       116       98     _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1995    1996
GOP (billions US$)                         160.3   378.1      755.9   914.2      Economic rtos
Gross domestic investment/GOP               30.3    37.8       40.5    42.4              openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GOP            5.2     9.9      21.0    18.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  30.6    33.7      42.2    43.9
Gross national savingsIGDP                  30.6    34.0      40.6    42.8
Current account balance/EODP                -0.2    -3.9        0.2     0.5
Interest paymentsJGOP                         ..     0.2       0.9      0.5     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..     5.5       16.9    14.2
Trtal debt service/exports                    ..     8.3        9.4     8.7
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..       15.5
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..      70.8       ..                  Indebtedness
197545  1986-96    1995       1996  1997.06
(average annual growth)                                                             -China
GOP                                 8.3     9.9      10.5       9.7     8.5                ovncmgru
GNP per capita                      7.5      8.4     7:9        8.9     7.6           -       F""' /DUp
Exports of goods and services      17.2    13.1      9.6        7.4     8.6    _
STRUCTURE of the ECOINOMY
1975    198       1995    1996
(% Of GOP)                                                                       Growth rates of output and Investment Ih)
Agrculture                                  32.0    28.4       20.6    20.0    30
Industry                                    42.8    43.1      48.4    48.9    20
Manufacturing                             31.6    35.4       37.6    38.9
Services                                    25.2    28.5       31.1    31.1      1
Private consumption                         61.9    53.1       45.6    46.1             SI S2    52   04   56   0
General government consum-nption             7.6    13.2       12.2    10.0               -     GD    +GDP
Imports of goods and services                5.0    14.0       19.3    17.0                        _
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996                _
(average annual growlt/)                                                        Growth rates of exports and Imports (h/)
Agriculture                                  5.4     4.3        5.0     5.1      40
Industry                                    10.4    13.4      14.1    12.7
Manufacturing                             13.0    12.9       13.3    12.3      20
Services                                     9.8     9.4        7.9     7.8
Private consumption                          8.2     &2         6.3     3.3       0      .    I
General govemment consumption                9.0     87          ..    11.4              a          '3          s s  s
Gross domestic investmrent                   9.8    11.3       19.1    16.6    .20
Imports of goods and services               22.1     9.5       5.0      8.86            -        U   -l prts
Gross national product                       9.0     9.9        9.0     9.9    I
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Ks income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Documernt                                                                                                            Page 88
China                                                            Annex 10                                       Basic Health Services Project
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     11985     199S     1996
Domestc prices                                                                    Inflation (h.
(°X change)
Consumer pnces                                ..      9.3       16.9      8.3
Implicit GDP deflator                        -0.9    10.1       13.1      6.1     20
Govemment finance                                                                1C
(%ofGDP)                                     ,.
Current revenue                                ..    25.5       11.4     11.5            9S r2   93   94   95   so
Current budget balance                                6.7       -1.4      0.5             -ODPd df. -'-CP
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    .0.5        -1.7     -1.6
TRADE
1975    1985      1995    11996                     _
(millions US$)                                                                    Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  27,350   148,770  151,073
Food                                               3,803     9,954   10,232
Fuel                                               7,132     5,335    5,929     iso.oo 
Manufactures                                      13,522   127,283  129,141
Total imports (cft)                                42,252   i32,078  138,828      s0ooor r
Food                                               1 881     9,126    7,866                      lhBi  ii
Fuel and energy                                     172      5,127    6,877         -0 0
Capital goods                                     18,694    57,481   63,901        oa__________________   _
Exportpriceindex (1987=100)                   ..       92       133      132             so  el  92  13  94  e5 SO
Import prce index(1987=100)                    .       78       132      131                  3Eports    aimport
Terms of trade (1987=100)                             118       101      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995     1996
(millians USSJ                                                                    Current account balance to 5DP ratio (V.)
Exports of goods and services              7,828   28.163   147.240  153,740 a
Imports of goods and services              8,097   41,149   135,264  141,340      4
Resource balance                            -269  -12,986    11,956   12,400
Net income                                     0      932   -11,774  -10,370      2
Net current transfers                          0      171       810    1,580      0       .    J,n
Current account balance.                                                             so  91   S2                     so 94   9 ff
before official capital transfers         -269  -11.883       992    3,810    .2--
Financing items (net)                               9,443    21,477   28,030
Changes in net reserves                       ,,   2,440   -22,469  -31,640      4--
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)            .   13,214    76,036  108,289
Conversion rate (bcaWlJS$)                    1.9     2.9        8.4      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBTr and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1986       1995    1996                       -       
(millions USS)                                                                  [ ComposItIon of total debt, 196 (mWll.'
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  16,696   118,090  126,288                          A
IBRD                                        ..    498       7,209    7,616             G          7616    Ba
IDA                                          ..    431      7,038    7,579            24558               7579
Total debt service                             ..   2,478    15.066   16,825                                    2499
IBRD                                        ,,       26       810      840
IDA                                          ..       4        63       73
Composiion of net resource flows                                                                                  E2372
Ofliciai rants                              .,      117       329                                               2 8/ 2
Oflicial creditors                                1,117     7,202    7,193
Private creditors                           ..   2,867      5,683    1,873
Foreign direct investment                    ..   1,659    35,849
Portfolio equity                             .        0     2,807
World Bank program                                                                         Fc614
Commitments                                  ,   1,092      2,850    1,900      A-IBRD                      E-BJ0aera  I
Disbursements                                       568     2,269    2,097      a-IDA     D-Olhernillaterrl   F-PrPvate
Prncipal repayments                         ..        0       364      364      C - IMF                     G- Short-tenn
Net flows                                    ..     565      1,905    1,734
Interest payments                           ..       29       509      549
Net transfers                               ..    536        1,396    1,185
Development Economics. 1996 extemal debt and resource flows data are from DRS (preliminary).                       8/15/97
Note: The dollar estimates for Chinaes GNP per capita, GNP and GDP are preliminary figures based on an on-going Wodd Bank study of
Chines GOP. They were calculated to facilitate inter-country comparisons. Official statistics are used as the basis for all other economic
analysis contained in this document.



MAP SECTION



_____________________                      lO~~IRD   29462
PROJECT COUNTIES, BY PROVINCE                                        go,                                                         ,---'oi                                                                                                                              HB                  IA N G
QINGHAI PROVINCE'       HENA  PROVINCE/
1DULAN                 50. TAKOIAN-O 
OXNGOAI               Sl.YIYANGNNE
3.YUSHU                 52.YICHIUAN                     XNEJ/ANGMONG~OLl~                                                                                                                                                                    ~    O        o,, 
4.MENYUAN               SOSNGAZA
DOATONG                54NNZA
H.XUANGZHONG           55.XICHIUAN                      ~                                                                                                      (,INI
H.000HU                S:NINOUNG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B Ha
.LEDU                  57XIXI(AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bo  Hai 
OMNIYX                 58.$HANGCHENG
10.XUNIU               59.00581 
CAETONGREN              ANHUI PROVINCE 
GASRVNEl         60:FUNAN
12.HEZHENG             IlOE
13.GVANGHE             62.JINZHAi
K.IANGLE              A3SHUOSHAN
I5UNTAO               64SHUC ENG
I6 DINGXI              65.0UEXI
IXVINIA                 6.AHU                                       fSHA
IUXIAN                87.OGA                                      Qm
IR WUDU                68JINGXA                            
20 KANGXIAN             801-0                             , I
SNDONG 
2CHONGOINO PROVINCE     NINGXVIA PROVINCE                   ,'.
22WUVUNXYANG            I -Y-NAX
23 TIANCHENG            I CI.
24WOG                   A!AJNGY-
2S PWE501i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
21.  ~ ~~~~SCA-I PROVINCE 
27IIUal                 C XXAA X,G" 
ouxIZHO   OVNE          CZASII'1
29 ZHENGAN                  N CC,ACN                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C
J130WUCHUANICV,A, 
YA NHE0                 I""CAN! U                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "C,,
33.5OAXANG              I I, SCINC                                                                                                           -I
3,.NANG                 '4 CIACAVA                                                                                                                                                                                                N'A  ~N
3GU0ANUG
37 IUOOIAN              II TONG IANG
38 PINGTANG             ICNANIANG
SHANXI PRVNCE           'I  - CA -A<XC
59TIANHE               IC ClOT AX,
40.GUANGLING            IC(AG41
41:LOUPAN               CC 'AE'.C.
42.HESHUN              2CI  AL NGQI.>*                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~                            ~
4A3.2UU00C`PAN          2C YACA.                                                                 1 
:5WUXIANG              GC OANA Al
A, QINXIAN              2C X-HIAX
aZPINGSHUNC  AHAIC-
AS.QINSHIUIAHUN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EC
~~ONGOLIA                                                                                                                          5   II ASCCEAA  SRSCESPRJETACCAIE
'1      BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                                                                                      ,         I-NGX
chA             H        PROVINCE CAPITALSICI                                                                       ''"'4.                                 '( FU I                                                                      N       M1~
COUNTY (SIAN) BOUNDAR ES                                            -,.          /          "'       Vo         5     9I9
U                                           -----    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~~INTERNAT[ONAL BOLUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                     b-dUn N A      w   ->
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                 .5                            [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YU       A N 
-T VVVX:   IVCXCC>dN~~KC:ER5IA                                                                                    ~         *,CC[9.                                                                                       5           '    "                           .  -g&'VXCR V
_____________________ __________________________________________________________200___00                                                                                                                                      OUAGDON
S-1h  - -    ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ,Id 0.4 G-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA   C



