Page  1
March 19, 2001
Mr. Jin Liqun
Vice Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beijing,
People’s Republic of China
Re:
Japan Social Development Fund Grant for Improving Access to Health 
Care by the Rural Poor 
Grant TF 026562
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan under the Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding four hundred thousand United States Dollars (US$400,000) (the 
Grant) to the People’s Republic of China  (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance with the project described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement (the Project) and on the terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Deputy Director General, International Department, 
Ministry of Finance
Date: March 21, 2001
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1.
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient (in relation to Part B 
of the Basic Health Services Project, Credit Number 3075-CH) in improving access to 
effective basic health services for the rural poor in Shaanxi Province, Sichuan 
Province, and the Ningxia Autonomous Region through improvement of the quality and 
management of such services and increased involvement and participation of communities 
and NGOs. 
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the 
following activities (Activities):
Page  2
Part A Medical Financial Assistance Program
(i) Review the use and acceptability of the Medical Financial Assistance program 
(MFA) with beneficiaries, service providers and other stakeholders; (ii) based on the 
review results, pilot improvements to the MFA in selected townships; and (iii) 
document success factors of such pilots for dissemination to other project areas, 
which activities are estimated to cost in total US$134,000 equivalent.
Part B Township and village health facilities
(i) Identify the essential service functions of township and village health 
facilities in selected areas and key staff of such facilities; (ii) consult with 
stakeholders to ensure that services provided by such facilities meet community needs; 
and (iii) develop and test new service guidelines, a manual of operations (including 
management and supervision) and related materials for health facility managers, which 
activities are estimated to cost in total US$45,000 equivalent. 
Part C Basic health services
On a pilot basis in selected townships: (i) review community health service 
needs and resource availability; (ii) prepare and implement health service business 
plans, in consultation with local government and key stakeholders; (iii) establish 
community health boards to improve communication and accountability between the health 
services providers and the local community; (iv) provide relevant training to health 
managers and board members; and (v) monitor and evaluate the results of the foregoing 
activities, which are estimated to cost in total US$85,000 equivalent.
Part D Technical support
(i) Assess the technical support required to improve the provision of health 
service (with emphasis of services for maternal care, immunization and tuberculosis 
control) and the outcomes of such service; (ii) identify the skills, institutions and 
agencies necessary for the provision of such technical support; (iii) develop and 
implement an outreach support program to provide such technical support; and (iv) 
monitor, assess and disseminate the results of the foregoing activities, which are 
estimated to cost in total US$136,000 equivalent.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project through the Recipient’s Ministry 
of Health with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the People’s Republic 
of China for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Project.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Page  3
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Project:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (in United States Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
374,300
100%
(2)
Goods
 20,700
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expendiutres (ex-
factory cost) and
75% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Workshops
  5,000
100%
TOTAL
400,000
For purposes of this paragraph: 
(a)
The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Recipient for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Recipient for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures." 
(b)
The term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures. 
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Bank; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by 
a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after January 31, 
2003, or such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date); and 
(c)
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she 
shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of 
the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount 
Page  4
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Project.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (b) services by consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each and (c) services by individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Page  5
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Attachment I 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$15,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$20,700 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract for the procurement of goods.
Section II.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Page  6
Consultant Guidelines and that are estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $374,300 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
Notwithstanding the Parts C.2(a) and C.2(b) of this Section II, with 
respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and individual 
consultants, regardless of the cost the contract, the terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
Page  7
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible items, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1(b)(ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  8
