                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000512




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-CREDIT NUMBER 3075 CHA)




                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 63.0 MILLION
                        (US$ 85 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR A

                      BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT




                               December 28, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Office
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective December 19, 2007)

                                       Currency Unit = Yuan
                                           Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.14
                                            US$ 1.00 = 7.38

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1 ­ December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BHSP  Basic Health Services Project (The          LIB       Limited International Bidding
      Project)
BOF   Bureau of Finance                           M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
BOH   Bureau of Health                            MCH       Maternal and Child Health
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                 MFA       Medical Financial Assistance
CEA   Cost Effective Analysis                     MIS       Management Information System
CEM   Country Economic Memorandum                 MOF       Ministry of Finance
CHRP  County Health Resource Plan                 MOH       Ministry of Health
CHSI  Center for Health Statistics and            MTR       Mid Term Review (of Project)
      Information
CMS   Cooperative Medical Scheme (refers to       NCB       National Competitive Bidding
      system for financing health care)
CPS   Country Partnership Strategy                NCMS      New Cooperative Medical Scheme
CTH   Central Township Hospital                   NEP       National Expert Panel
DFID  United Kingdom Department for               PEP       Provincial Expert Panel
      International Development
EAP   East Asia and Pacific                       PIP       Project Implementation Plan
EPI   Expanded Program of Immunization            QAG       Quality Assurance Group (of World
                                                            Bank)
EPS   Epidemic Prevention Station                 QHP       Qinba Health Program
ESW   Economic and Sector Work                   OPD        Outpatient Department (of hospital)
FLO   Foreign Loan Office (of Ministry of         PIP       Project Implementation Plan
      health)
GE    Grant Equivalent                            PMO       Project Management Office
GOC   Government of China                         RMC       China Resident Mission (of World Bank)
H8SP  Health Eight Support Project (DFID          SARS      Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
      financed)
ICB   International Competitive Bidding          SDR        Special Drawing Rights
HLG   Health Leading Group                       SPC        State Planning Commission
IDA   International Development Association       SOE       Statement of Expenditure
IDD   Iodine Deficiency Disorders                 THC       Township Health Center
IMR   Infant Mortality rate




                                   Vice President:    James Adams, EAPVP
                                Country Director:     David R. Dollar, EACCF
                                  Sector Manager:     Fadia Saadah, EASHD
                           Project Team Leader:       L. Richard Meyers, EASHD
                               ICR Team Leader:       Shuo Zhang, EASHD

                                                 CHINA
                      Basic Health Services Project (Health VIII)




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 36
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 39
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 40
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 53
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 61
 MAP: IBRD 33387

A. Basic Information

                                                                      CN-BASIC HEALTH
Country:               China                   Project Name:
                                                                      (HLTH8)
                                                                      IDA-30750,JPN-
                                                                      26562,JPN-
Project ID:            P003566                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      52892,MULT-
                                                                      52328,UK-04290
ICR Date:               04/13/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      People's Republic of
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      China
Original Total
                       USD 85.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 84.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health / Foreign Loan Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/16/1996     Effectiveness:         09/10/1998       09/10/1998
Appraisal:             01/05/1998     Restructuring(s):                           n.a
Approval:              05/19/1998     Mid-term Review:                        08/15/2001
                                      Closing:               06/30/2005       06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory        Government:              Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory        Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:         Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:               Satisfactory        Performance:             Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project                    Quality at Entry
                            No                                      Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                            No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               4                  4
Compulsory health finance                                       5                  5
Health                                                         77                 77
Non-compulsory health finance                                  10                 10
Sub-national government administration                          4                  4


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                 Secondary         Secondary
Health system performance                                    Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           James Adams                      Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:           Fadia M. Saadah                  Maureen Law
Project Team Leader:      L. Richard Meyers                Janet Hohnen
ICR Team Leader:          Shuo Zhang
ICR Primary Author:       Ian P. Morris



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to achieve sustainable health improvement for the populations of poor
rural counties through: (a) improved allocation and management of health resources; (b)
upgrading of health facilities at township level; (c) improved quality and effectiveness of

health services and programs; and (d) increased risk sharing and affordability of essential
health care for poor families

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percent of Township Health Centers implementing standard clinical protocols
                (Part A of the Project)
Value
quantitative or       2%                         80+ %.           n.a.            85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                     01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        A key effort to improve service quality
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Number & Percent of Upgraded Hospitals Upgraded according to County Health
                Resource Plan (Part A of the Project)
Value
quantitative or       1,214 (0%)              100%                 n.a.        1,107 (85%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/1998                                                   01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        A significant achievement where performance improved significantly over time.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Number & Percent of Townships With Cooperative Medical Scheme Operating
                More Than Two Years. (Part A of the Project)
Value
quantitative or     1,214 (2%)                Not Defined         n.a.            991 (80%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/1998                                                     01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Project has supported GOC to rebuild CMS. Remains scope to deepen and

achievement)    extend scheme. Project helped build capacity to design elements of the scheme

Indicator 4 :   Percent of Eligible Poor Population Receiving Medical Financial Assistance
                (Part A and B of the Project)
Value
quantitative or        0%                     100%                n.a.         90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                     01/31/2007
Comments        A critical Project achievement. Demonstrated feasibility of assistance for the
(incl. %        very poor (Target 5% families in Part A counties and 20% in Part B counties).
achievement)    Scope to extend and deepen extend of subsidy.

Indicator 5 :   Percent of Women Receiving Pre-natal Care (Part B of the Project)
Value           Ningxia       0                                                   54.8
quantitative or Shaanxi      34.0              Not defined       n.a.             82.1%
Qualitative)    Sichuan      41.3                                                 77.1%
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                    01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        A core project achievement. Still room for improvement particularly in Ningxia
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Number & Percent of Counties with Approved County Health Resource Plans
                and Annual Reviews (Part A of the Project)
Value
(quantitative           32 (41%)               71 (100%)           n.a.          71 (100%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/1998                                                    01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        A critical project achievement supporting local planning and initiatives. Still

achievement)    scope to improve system efficiencies over time.

Indicator 2 :   Percent of Counties/Towns With an Information System Working to Stipulated
                Standard Reports. (Part A of the Project)
Value
(quantitative        31%/ 4%                   100%                n.a.          100%/85%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                    01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        This was a key project achievement although much still needs to be done to

achievement)    improve the quality of data to enable even more improved decision making.

Indicator 3 :   Percent of Township Hospitals Having Effective Referral and Supervision
                Agreements. (Part A of the Project)
Value
(quantitative            3%                  Not Defined           n.a.          87%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                    01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        A sound achievement with particular import for emergency obstetric care.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Percent of Hospital Deliveries (Part A of the Project)
Value
(quantitative            20%                 Not Defined        n.a.             75%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                    01/31/2007
Comments

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Percent of Hospital Deliveries (Part B of the Project)
Value           Sichuan     32%                                                   73%
(quantitative   Shaanxi     31%           Not defined.           n.a.             86%
or Qualitative) Ningxia       7%                                                  56%
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                       01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       This is a significant increase in hospital deliveries in very poor areas.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Infant Mortality Rate (Part B of the Project)
Value           Sichuan     44%                                                    16%
(quantitative   Shaanxi     72%            Not defined           n.a.              12%
or Qualitative) Ningxia 42%                                                        19%
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                       01/31/2007
Comments        The reduction in IMR is significant particularly give the stall in the two
(incl. %       decades prior to Project. Other factors including income growth has helped by
achievement)   health system performance suggests it had solid impact.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                           IP                Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/29/1998          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     1.25
  2     01/05/1999          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     1.25
  3     12/22/1999          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     6.45
  4     06/13/2000          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     9.86
  5     11/06/2000          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    14.81
  6     03/23/2001          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    19.42
  7     06/03/2001          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    20.91
  8     10/18/2001          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    27.34
  9     01/02/2002          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    32.57
  10    10/18/2002          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    43.04
  11    01/01/2003          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    45.74
  12    07/24/2003          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    49.10
  13    01/30/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    53.05
  14    06/21/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    54.62
  15    12/21/2004          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    58.85
  16    05/05/2005          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    62.29
  17    12/19/2005          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    69.64
  18    12/18/2006          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    82.16



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

China made outstanding progress in raising the overall health status of its population
during the 1960's and 1970's by significantly reducing infant, child and maternal
mortality and increasing life expectancy. Despite accelerating growth between 1980 and
1995 health improvement slowed significantly relative to economic growth and a health
status divide emerged between poor rural areas and urban and more prosperous rural
areas. The Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) in poor rural areas was triple urban levels and the
Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) twice as high. The IMR in poor counties was as high as
100 per 1,000 live births and the MMR 200 per 100,000 births.

The Government of China (GOC) became increasing concerned about this health
outcome divide. The system capacity to deal with this health challenge was approaching
crisis proportions. The cooperative medical systems (CMS) that had underpinned rural
health financing had virtually collapsed in the context of the overall national economic
reforms. Rural health care became largely dependant on fee for service. Further, fees
were increasing, to a large extent driven by unnecessary pharmaceutical prescriptions and
increasing use of diagnostic tests, in large part to generate funds to keep health facilities
financially viable. This raised even more serious barriers to health care for the poor. Debt
arising from catastrophic health costs became a significant cause of a family's poverty.
Core public health program coverage which should, on public finance criteria, receive
high priority for public subsidies, were seriously lagging. Health staff were also poorly
trained and supervised. Rural hospital infrastructure was also in an extremely poor state -
- often too unsafe for occupation and all poorly equipped. GOC federal financing
arrangements also meant lower level governments were poorly resourced to cope with
these problems and remained unsure of the space they had to make independent plans.

In January 1997, the State Council of the Peoples Republic of China released its Decision
Paper on Health Reform and Development (Health Reform 1997), setting health sector
priorities to 2010. Local governments were required to prepare implementation plans for
these policy priorities. The key national rural health strategies involved: (i) increasing
health budgets; (ii) improving public funding for prevention and basic care, especially in
lagging areas; (iii) upgrading and maintaining health facilities based on area planning
principles; (iv) reestablishing CMS schemes; and (v) improved personnel policies. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) wanted to regain the lost momentum in rural health status
improvement and improving the cost-effectiveness and accessibility of services and
looked to the Bank for support.

Bank's Rationale for Involvement. The rationale for the Bank's involvement was
strong. First, GOC had clearly identified major structural problems with current rural
health care arrangements in poor rural areas and signaled a strong willingness to
undertake reform. The Bank's own health sector work confirmed that GOC's proposed
reforms were in the right direction. Second, experience from the Bank's past health



                                             1

portfolio, where the focus had been on specific aspects of the rural health system
(including the experience of the Integrated Regional Health Development Project
(Cr.2009-CHA) completed in 1997), had demonstrated there was an increasing urgency
to deal with the structural issues bedeviling health service delivery to achieve sustained
improvement of health outcomes.

Third, MOH actively sought Bank support to undertake these significant health reforms
and saw this as a logical step in its partnership with the Bank. Fourth, the Project's
development objectives aimed to advance two key strands of the Bank's China assistance
strategy: (a) poverty alleviation and promotion of human development by meeting basic
health needs of the rural poor (CAS: Document No. 16321-CHA, February 25, 1997; and
reaffirmed in the CAS progress report of May, 1998); and (b) improved public funding of
essential social infrastructure through reform of the health finance system, as
recommended by the Bank's sector study, "Financing Health Care: Issues and Options
for China" (China 2020 Series, 1997). It was also assessed that the proposed reforms
were feasible in the current political and policy environment in China. Finally, the Bank
had considerable international experience with health sector reform and believed it had
the capacity to work at both national and local government levels of GOC's federal
system, including an ability to create mechanisms to support management of funds flows,
procurement and other project processes in a way which could strengthen local capacities

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as         approved)

The project aimed to achieve sustainable health improvement for the populations of poor
rural counties through: (a) improved allocation and management of health resources; (b)
upgrading of health facilities at township level; (c) improved quality and effectiveness of
health services and programs; and (d) increased risk sharing and affordability of essential
health care for poor families.

1.3 Revised PDO

The PDO were not revised during Project Implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project aimed to improve health programs for an estimated 45 million people (1998)
in 97 designated poverty counties of ten poor provinces/areas in China. Part I of the
Project covered a population of about 32 million in 71 counties from 7 provinces (Anhui,
Gansu, Guizhou, Henan, Quinghai, and Shanxi; and the municipality of Chongqing).
Part II of the Project -- Qinba Health Program (QHP) -- targeted about 13 million people
living in 26 of China's poorest counties in two provinces (Shaanxi and Sichuan) and in
the Ningxia Autonomous Region.

The primary project beneficiaries were poor families who were targeted in three ways: (i)
the selection of townships and villages of designated poverty counties; (ii) support of
priority health interventions for conditions that particularly affect the poor; and (iii)



                                             2

specific initiatives to improve access to public health services and to reduce financial
barriers to hospital and ambulatory care through CMS programs and medical financial
assistance (MFA) schemes designed to reduce service costs for the poorest 5 percent of
families. The Project also aimed to assist all families to receive specific benefits for
women and children.

The Project also aimed to develop county level institutional capacity by: (i) improving
the technical and managerial competence of township/village health staff; (ii) improving
their capacity (especially health bureaus) to plan and manage sector investments and
programs; (iii) increasing the cost-effectiveness of health sector resource use; and (iv)
improving implementation and monitoring of health policy reforms. At higher levels of
government the Project primarily aimed to build capacity to: (a) provide technical support
to Project areas; (b) monitor and evaluate policy progress and Project implementation; (c)
conduct studies on Project issues as they arise; (d) disseminate lessons to other areas; and
(e) contribute to further policy analysis, dialogue and development.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Basic Health Services Project (BHSP) project had two parts. Part 1; Basic Health
Services     (IDA     US$70     million   equivalent)   covered   71  counties   in   seven
Provinces/Municipalities (Anhui, Chongqing, Gansu, Guizhou, Henan, Qinghai, Shanxi).
Part II; Qinba Health Program (QHP); (IDA $15 million equivalent) covered 26 counties
included in the Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (Ln. 4187-CHA/Cr. No. 28-
CHN) in Shaanxi and Sichuan provinces and Ningxia Autonomous Region. The QHP
objectives and rationale was as for Part I, but its scope primarily focused on priority
health interventions and the MFA scheme.

PART I. BASIC HEALTH SERVICES.

A.      Improve Planning, Management and Health Infrastructure

A1.     Improved Health Sector Planning.            Implementation of the County Health
Resource Plans (CHRP) through funding support for a planning unit in each county
health bureau for: (i) health planning training and workshops; (ii) progress reviews and
site visits; and (iii) technical support to prepare annual work plans.

A2.     Upgrading of Township Health Facilities.           Support (including training and
supervision expenses) for reestablishing and equipping about 1,000 township health
centers (THCs) and Central Township Hospitals (CTHs) based on revised service
functions and standards, defined in the (CHRP), and to ensure their maintenance.

A3.     Improve Management Information System. To improve the collection and use of
information for planning and monitoring health programs and the Project through: (i)
improvements to the reporting system; and (ii) surveys. Funds supported equipment,
software development, training, surveys, supervision and technical support.




                                                3

B.      Improved Health Service Quality and Effectiveness.          This component aimed to
improve the quality and effectiveness of township and village health programs.

B1.     Improved Health Service Delivery. This aimed to: (i) establish effective
supervision and referral relationships between health system levels; (ii) implement
standard case management and infection control protocols and X-ray safety; and (iii) pilot
essential drug lists to reduce dangerous and unnecessary prescribing. Preference was to
be given to townships where CMS schemes were established (see C1 below).

B2.     Priority Health Interventions. This aimed to improve coverage and utilization of
selected cost effective interventions, targeting important health problems in Project
counties. Priority was to be given to improving maternal and child health (MCH),
tuberculosis control and immunization programs. Diseases of local significance were
eligible for support if these three programs were in place.

C.      Increased Affordability of Health Services.     This aimed to introduce risk sharing
for health care costs and to reduce financial barriers to essential services for the very poor.

C1.     Cooperative Medical Scheme (CMS). This aimed to help townships to establish
risk sharing schemes, expanding slowly according to progress, based on Bank approved
criteria. Funds were for startup costs (e.g., baseline analysis, scheme design, community
mobilization, management capacity and seed funds to promote initial participation.

C2.      Medical Financial Assistance (MFA) Scheme. To establish an MFA scheme in
participating townships, as a means to reimburse service providers in partial payment for
health services and inpatient care for the poorest five percent of households (using
acceptable eligibility criteria) Startup costs and services for eligible families were funded.

D.      Project Coordination and Support. Enabled participating provinces and national
level agencies to: (i) monitor and supervise all aspects of the project; (ii) provide
technical support and training to implementation units (including through the national
expert panel (NEP) and provincial expert panels (PEP); (iii) appraise CHRPs for the
second group of counties; (iv) conduct Project related investigations; and (v) analyze and
disseminate the Project experience.

PART II. QINBA HEALTH PROGRAM Activities were grouped into three county
level components covering health service delivery, service utilization and project support.

A.      Health Service Delivery. Covered: (i) MCH; (ii) immunization; (iii) priority
disease interventions, (primarily tuberculosis control, childhood deworming, control of
iodine deficiency and other diseases of local significance).

B.      Health Service Utilization. This aimed to set up a MFA Scheme (as per Part 1 C2
above) to subsidize essential health services costs to the poorest 20 percent of families.




                                               4

C.     Project Coordination and Support. This component supported MOH in monitoring,
supervision and technical assistance as well as coordination across government levels.

1.6 Revised Components

The components of the Project were not revised during Project Implementation.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

The Project was prepared by Government and appraised by the Bank as a stand alone
project. However, a range of development partners saw the benefits, to both the Project
and GOC more generally, if they could combine resources with the Bank in support of
health reform within the strategic framework agreed for the Project. The Bank and
government agreed this made strategic sense. The decision of the British Department for
International Development (DFID) in 1999 to support the Project, as its first health
project in China, through a Health Eight Support Project (H8SP) with a grant of RMB
210 million (33 million pound) -- equivalent to about 16 percent of total Project costs was
an important development. Detailed design of H8SP was undertaken by MOH and
relevant counties (in close consultation with DFID and the Bank) and was reflected in
joint annual county plans. H8SP accepted all the project objectives, conditions and
agreements incorporated in the Bank agreements with GOC to ensure strategic
consistency with the original Project intent. It was also agreed that supervision of the
combined program would be done jointly under Bank leadership and that all procurement
and financial management systems established for the BHSP would be followed.

MOH was keen to gain significant additional grant funds to support a range of aspects of
the Project ­ particularly for additional technical assistance and operational funds for
national support of the county activities. Internal budget and financing constraints within
China prevented adequate Bank credit financing of these items. Thus, H8SP initially
supported: (i) additional technical assistance and operational costs (including conferences
and studies) for FLO and the NEP to support the program; and (ii) a county in two
provinces (Gansu and Chongqing) to pilot more intensive and well resourced
interventions in the various components of the Project. The Project mid-term review
(MTR) acknowledged the important role of these pilot counties in: (i) developing
innovative approaches to health system change; and (ii) strengthening national and
provincial capacity to support Project implementation. It was also jointly agreed that
H8SP would: (a) extend its intensive pilot approach to one county in each of the other
seven provinces; and (b) fund additional technical and operational support to help
counties incorporated in the QHP.

Other development partners provided additional resources to GOC and/or specific
counties to undertake more intensive activities or pilot new initiatives which included: (a)
Ford Foundation support ($ 0.5 million) to improve reproductive health/safe delivery in
four counties (this experience influenced the design of revised protocols nationally); (b)
China Foundation ($2.1 million) support of a pilot to test the feasibility of including
geothermal energy supply in hospitals in four provinces; (c) Global Environment Facility



                                             5

($750,000) support for the design and installation of passive solar hospital heating in very
remote areas of three poor counties; (d) ORBIS (RMB 0.4 million) for cataract treatment
in Shanxi; (e) Canadian SIDA ($100,000) supported analysis of gender issues and
equality of access to care; and (f) Japan Social Development Fund ($0.4 million) for
management support of township hospitals in the QHP.

The arrangements for the additional development partner resources supporting the Project,
as agreed with MOH and concerned partners were formally approved by the County
Director.

Closing Date Extension.         The closing date was extended 2 years to allow the
implementation momentum to be sustained and project objectives to be met more fully.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project objectives were fully consistent with the Health Reform of 1997 which
emphasized rural health strategies to: (i) increase health budgets; (ii) improve funding for
prevention and basic care, particularly for the poor; (iii) upgrade health facilities based on
regional planning principles; (iv) reestablish CMSs in rural areas; and (v) improve health
worker skills and personnel policies. They were also fully consistent with the Bank's
CAS and were underpinned by Bank health financing sector work, which emphasized the
need to: (a) strengthen public health programs; (b) ensure essential services for the poor;
(c) reform prices and provider payment mechanisms; (d) control investments and
improve regional planning; and (e) promote risk pooling through community financing.

The Project was also built on the foundations of a well-established relationship with
MOH and FLO and lessons learned in poor counties.               These lessons included an
understanding that: (i) system reform simultaneously addressing both demand and supply
side issues was essential to ensure sustainability of quality health services; (ii) one size
does not fit all areas of the country ­ particularly poor areas with limited capacities; (iii)
central planning according to norms contributed to duplication and inefficiency and
would be improved by focusing on local needs; (iv) cost-effective health interventions
targeted to local priorities had been proven feasible and had been adopted nationally in
the Ninth Five Year Plan; (v) adequate public funding of public health was essential; (vi)
most services were not affordable by the poor; and (vii) rural areas lacked health
insurance. Experience had also shown the need for strong project ownership. To this end,
Project preparation was intensive over more than two years fully involving all
government levels.

Preparation and appraisal by the Bank was led by a senior sector specialist supported by a
wide range of technical specialists well versed with both the technical issues and with
health sector on-ground realities. Project components addressed key aspects of the health
reform and were by-and-large fully owned by the client. However, there was considerable
resistance to the Project condition that Part I counties must establish an MFA scheme



                                              6

acceptable to the Bank before civil works could proceed. While this caused some tension
there is now wide consensus that the Bank's position was far sighted and appropriate.

Part II of the Project was initially prepared as part of a Qinba poverty project and was, at
GOC request late in the preparation cycle, added to the Project. While the content was
similar to Part I components, there were significant differences and lines of
accountability for management and financing were not as fully developed adding,
perhaps unnecessarily, to project complexity. The risk assessment clearly identified its
complexity as substantial but also identified clear risk minimization measures. The need
for higher level authorities to proactively support Project implementation, including
through Health Leading Groups (HLGs) at each government level, a NEP and Provincial
Expert Panels (PEP) was also identified. While substantial risks were identified there was
also a high probability of significant positive outcomes.

The Project was rated highly satisfactory by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
for quality of entry. QAG emphasized that it was exceptionally well prepared because it
was: (i) strongly underpinned by ESW: (ii) developed collaboratively with the client; (iii)
supported by good practice institutional and social analysis; and (iv) supported by a well
prepared Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and key upfront implementation actions.

2.2 Implementation

Factors outside the control of government. No major factors outside the control of
government negatively affected strategic implementation of the project. The emergence
of SARS in 2003 prevented most Project supervision for twelve months and caused
implementation delays due to travel restrictions and redeployment of management
attention to the new emergency. However, SARS, and the later emergence of Avian
Influenza in 2004, both emergent zoonotic diseases with major global implications,
positively reinforced the urgency of GOC action to sustain health reforms and address
major deficiencies in the public health protection of its population. The Project assisted
in the response to SARS and Avian Flu in Project areas. The DFID financed H8SP
(discussed in 1.7 above) supported: (a) Project objectives; (b) technical and logistic
support; and (c) in-depth intervention pilots and later administrative and logistics support
for the Qinba HSP (Part II of the Project).

Factors subject to government control.         Firstly, GOC's macroeconomic and growth
strategies helped sustain remarkable income growth over the Project decade. Large GOC
investments transformed the transport system (reducing travel time to health facilities)
and improved economic opportunities (resulting in many more households with at least
one family member working in a city). However, income differences between rural and
urban areas widened. Secondly, supportive health sector policies and initiatives evident at
Project outset were sustained. The State Council issued a paper on "Opinions on Rural
Health Reform and Development" in 2001 which emphasized the rationalization and
consolidation of THCs. Significantly, in 2003 GOC decided to rapidly expand a new
system of county-level rural health insurance, drawing partially on Project experience.




                                              7

Third, however, a lack of counterpart funds during the first half of the Project period
(often only 1/3rd of requirements) constrained implementation. This was recognized at
appraisal as a high risk. Fourth, tough on-lending conditions of the Bank Credit by the
GOC (on terms harder than the Credit terms) to provinces and counties, together with
confusion over whether individual health facilities should be liable for the debt arising
from Credit support, constrained the willingness of local authorities to use credit funds ­
particularly for training, experimentation and other "software" support. Consequently,
project managers had to expend significant time and effort on advocacy with local level
authorities. On the other hand, this process helped ensure consultation and ownership of
local initiatives. Fifth, public sector reforms negatively impacted on local level health
bureau implementation capacities in the initial phases of the Project as a consequence of
significant staff downsizing, and of the reforms more generally. Sixth, while
administrative procedures were of necessity complicated in a federal system, initial
implementation phasing did not devote adequate time and attention to fully embed
workable administrative procedures. Finally, GOC and FLO made strategic use of the
H8SP grant to build capacity and address operational expenditure constraints at all levels
of the Project -- expenditures which could have been Credit financed but which could not
be included in the Project due to GOC internal restrictions on Credit use.

Factors generally subject to implementation agency control.               Overall project
management was reasonably effective, albeit with some variability over time at
provincial and county levels. The MOH and FLO initially underestimated support levels
needed by Project management to implement it. Problems emerged with procurement and
special account acquittal and reimbursement processes and the critical area planning
process. While these were slow to be systematically established they were ultimately
quite successful. Guidance from proactive supervision missions were responded to by
Project management with considerable diligence at all levels. Significantly, project
management capacity for administrative and technical support of lower levels, was
enhanced over time. Specifically, provincial/county HLGs and PEPs, together with the
NEP and the national HLG were heavily invested in by the FLO -- albeit with significant
additional resources from H8SP ­ to provide implementation leadership. The NEP and
the PEPs became critically important for the provision of technical support ­ these in turn
were critically supported by the Core Supervision Team (CST) (5b below).

The MTR made adjustments to improve implementation. While recognizing progress
made, the MTR successfully: (i) increased the focus on outcomes and access for the poor
(MFA implementation); (ii) reemphasized the need to strengthen leadership commitment
and Project links to the daily work program of counties and townships; (iii) improved
service user capacity to make better health choices and to monitor the CMS and MFA
initiatives; (iv) improved the TA strategy (emphasizing increased use of local TA),
enhanced the scope of the NEP and PEPs and the oversight of all training activities; (v)
limited the construction to its budget and reinforced the importance of construction
quality, functionality, safety and patient comfort; and (vi) increased the focus on
sustainability of activities. By the end of 2004, with the hospital program largely
completed, GOC, with the active support of development partners, was able to increase
their focus on the "software" dimensions of the Project. Reinforced by GOC's positive



                                             8

new health reform initiatives, the imperative of the reform agenda increased over time.
The Project was able to support the health system at all levels and enhance
implementation capacity. Specific focus was given to the improvement of the quality of
service delivery, more aggressive implementation of priority health interventions, support
for the new CMS, the MFA and poor performing counties. Efforts also led to improved
integration of the Qinba HSP into the overall Project (with significant support of H8SP).
In this context the project was extended 2 years allowing significant extension and
consolidation of achieved progress.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project had a well designed and comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
framework catering to the key needs of policy makers and Project managers. The Project
designers had to balance the complexity of a wide range of health reforms and activities
being implemented with the desirability and feasibility of working and supporting
existing MOH information systems in a complex federal government system. The CHRP
and annual plans in the Qinba region, together with Project performance indicators
enabled adequate Project monitoring ­ both progress towards meeting outcomes (and
PDOs) and subcomponent implementation progress at each level of the system. Each
Project component supported the development of information and provided for its
analysis and use for monitoring. Importantly, the Project M&E system supported the
institutional development of the core information system to assist with sustainability.

Nevertheless, an improved focus on formal monitoring indicators and outcomes by all
parties and improved timeliness of reports could have alerted implementation delays
more quickly ­ particularly during the first years of the Project. Key project financed
surveys generated important information on Project outcomes. It needs to be
acknowledged, however, that the quality and comprehensiveness of information system
data, while significantly improved as a consequence of Project support, is often
problematic -- the quality and comparability of information generated still requires
significant improvement.

The FLO and implementing agencies used the supervision dialogue and aides memoir as
an important M&E tool. The CST played an important role in assisting FLO, counties and
supervision missions in this. The NEP and PEPs (and FLO/provincial supervision teams)
also played a critical role in M&E and project supervision -- often drawing on the
expertise in the CST. The NEP, in particular, provided technical support to M&E
implementation and fostered the utilization of the information for decision making. The
CHRP process helped rationalization of the location and size of THCs and their staffing.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment. The Project's environmental impact was substantially positive. Hospital
rebuilding/refurbishment significantly improved: (i) medical waste disposal; (ii) infection
control systems (including standard protocols); (iii) X-ray safety (and protocols) ­
although X-ray safety barriers are yet to be installed in all facilities; (iv) water supply and



                                             9

sanitation facilities; (v) piloting of energy saving technology, and (vi) patient comfort ­ a
significant achievement. Chemicals used and waste from THCs did not raise major safe
disposal issues. An Environmental C category for the Project was appropriate.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Refurbishment and building of facilities were
virtually all located on existing sites. No issues of resettlement were anticipated or arose.

Social Assessment, Stakeholder Consultation and Minority Nationalities in Project
Areas. The Project integrated social assessment, stakeholder consultation and a focus on
minority needs into both the preparation and implementation phases of the Project. This
was important as the reforms resulted in the need for fundamental changes in
relationships, roles and accountabilities between facilities, staff and patients. To achieve
preventive population behavior change and targeting of the extreme poor social
assessments were undertaken and detailed designs provided for stakeholder consultations.

Auditing Requirements. Audit reports were provided annually on a generally timely
basis without any serious qualification except for the lack of counterpart funds in the
Project's early years. Adequate Project accounts were maintained by implementation
entities and no major problems were identified with either Project resource use or those
of H8SP which were also monitored by the supervision team on behalf of DFID.

Procurement. No major fiduciary related procurement issues were identified during
implementation. There were significant initial procurement delays due to confusion over
responsibilities and accountabilities for LCB contracts at provincial and county levels.
Significant delays in ICB equipment and IS contacts for tuberculosis drugs arose because
of the confusion over responsibilities. However these problems were addressed with the
support of supervision missions and the quality of most construction, goods and services
procured met appropriate quality standards.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Project has assisted with sustainable health system reform addressing both the supply
and demand side problems simultaneously. The Project diligently experimented with
what worked and what didn't work, while also helping with institutionalizing agreed
reforms into core government systems. Pilot experience also impacted national health
policy development.        Key Project staff, particularly NEP staff, developed their
professional and technical leadership capacities through training, local and international
exposure to health policy issues, and to international technical assistance. This leadership
was able to alter the prevailing mindset and encourage innovative reform. Key staff
influenced national policy which remained supportive of Project reforms confirming the
appropriateness of the original reform agenda.

Specific examples of the sustainability of project interventions include: (i) increased
policy and funding priority to rural public health programs by GOC; (ii) adoption of area
health planning frameworks (CHRPs) resulted in some rationalization of facility
infrastructure; (iii) adoption of new hospital designs in the national construction program;



                                               10

(iv) improved quality staff complements in facilities, administration and policy making
areas better able to network their skills and to implement rural health reforms; (v)
hospital managers employed on contract with enhanced managerial space to exercise
discretion; (vi) improved capacity for program supervision; (vii) adoption of standard
public health protocols with the support of training designed to improve service quality;
(viii) improved focus, capacity, and incentives, for local level health authorities to deliver
priority public health interventions; (ix) reduction of the number of harmful drugs being
prescribed (notwithstanding provider incentives to over-prescribe) to ensure facility and
practitioner income; (x) development of a community insurance scheme with increased
national funding ­ albeit one where the degree of risk sharing embodied in the program is
not yet optimal; and (xi) the successful operation of a range of MFA schemes focused
subsidies for the poorest 5 percent of the population. The MFA programs were generally
seen as fair and equitable by communities. There has also been a significant effort to
disseminate Project experience across all counties and nationally.

Health system information capacity and performance indicators were improved by the
Project and are available on a continuous basis for performance monitoring (see Annex 2)
­ however quality and data consistency require additional work. The experimentation and
piloting culture at local levels of interventions and monitoring their success is a positive
achievement as is use of local level surveys. A follow-on project would be consistent
with the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and could assist GOC, and the
poorer provinces and population segments, to more fully institutionalize and extend
project achievements. Health authorities in participating counties (and provinces) were
keen for a follow-on project -- particularly if they could receive grants or national
government assumed repayment obligations to the Bank -- because projects provide a
unique platform to test and implement new "best practice" ideas and programs. National
health authorities appreciated the Bank's sector work and noted that currently China
appreciates access to international knowledge and technical assistance to work with
national experts to support the health reform process.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project objectives, as appraised, continued to be fully relevant to current country and
global health priorities ­ including the international commitment to the Millennium
Development Goals with their focus on reduced infectious diseases, IMRs, MMRs and on
poverty reduction -- agreed well after Project development. They also remained
consistent with Bank priorities as reflected in successive CAS's, including the current
CPS, which recognizes the importance of: (i) health, social inclusion and progress, and
reduced barriers to services; (ii) strengthened sub-national financing; (iii) focusing on the
needs of the poor and lagging regions; (iv) creating demand-driven knowledge and access
to international expertise and "best-practice" to underpin health policy and strategies; and
(v) environmental responsibility. The Project also supported GOC to implement its health
reform objectives and specific health targets formalized in successive policy initiatives
and its Five-Year Plans. Health policy making was, to a significant extent, informed by



                                              11

Project outcomes (including key pilots). Senior officials recognized it for being "far-
sighted" ­ particularly its focus on the very poor, demand side issues more generally, and
its efforts to improve the range and effectiveness of services supplied.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

ICR Rating: Overall Achievement of Project Development Objectives is Satisfactory

(a)     Improved Allocation and Management of Health Resources. A critical Project
output was the use of CHRP and annual planning processes across all 71 Part I Counties
to improve health program efficiencies. An annual plan process was used in the 26 Part 2
Counties. The CHRP was a break from the past inefficient top-down norms based process.
They were based on an analysis of local needs, patterns of service and delivery options,
and on an assessment of resource availability. Efforts were made to improve the poor
information system to underpin decision making at the county level. They aimed to
improve basic preventive and medical services coverage through: (a) defining township
service roles; (b) establishing referral and supervision linkages; (c) a reduction of hospital
facilities and capacities to reduce duplication; (d) increased funds for cost-effective
essential public health interventions; and (e) an improved response to changing local
health problems.

The planning process outcomes were significant and underpin Project outcomes as
discussed below. Some 100 percent of counties and 85 percent of towns now have a
working information system producing agreed standard reports ­ up from 31 and 4
percent respectively in 1998 -- although problems persist with data quality. Indicators of
improved efficiency include: (i) a reduction in the number of hospitals and beds; (ii) bed
occupancy rate increasing in THCs from 25.4 to 51.1 percent and from 33.9 to 63 percent
in CTHs (in 2006 non-project rural county surveys indicated rates of 12.6 percent and
24.5 percent in THC and CTHs respectively); and (iii) annual hospital discharges per
technical worker almost doubling in THCs (from 13.5 to 25.3) and for CTHs it rose from
15.2 to 22.3. While outpatient visits per professional staff remained unchanged, survey
results indicate a substantial increase in the utilization of health services ­ doctor visits in
a two week period almost doubled from 11.8 to 21.9 percent of the population over the
Project period. Similarly, those reporting a hospitalization over the past year rose from
2.1 to 3.6 percent. There were significant county and provincial variations.

(b)     Upgrading of Health Facilities at Township Level. The CHRP process was
influential. Some 95 percent of reestablished health facilities were in accordance with the
plans. At Project outset hospital facilities lacked functionality, provided little comfort,
privacy or safety for patients or staff and virtually all were in extremely poor condition --
70 percent were unsafe and inhabitable. Further, functional equipment was also almost
non-existent and typically broken -- often comprising of little more than a stethoscope,
thermometer and a blood pressure instrument. The project initially planned to reestablish
and equip 1,214 THCs -- after completion of the CHRPs and the MTR, the target
numbers were reduced to 312 CTHs and 786 THCs ­ a total of 1,107.




                                              12

The reconstruction process utterly transformed the quality and functionality of rebuilt
facilities. The durability and quality of construction was enhanced by: (a) building brick
and concrete structures; (b) using qualified hospital designers; (c) developing design
guidelines; and (d) institutionalization of central approval of plans, competitive tendering,
and close supervision of construction standards. A standard set of fittings were specified
including impervious surfaces for infection control in defined areas, X-ray radiation
shielding and sanitary facilities ­ including running water. This entailed the introduction
of new concepts for hospital design with emphasis on safety, comfort and functionality.
Priority was given to ensuring that facilities could support quality obstetric services.
There was considerable initial resistance to this approach as there was little precedence
and the benefits were not fully appreciated. Thus, early efforts did not fully incorporate
these changes -- the use of study tours, training and an experienced international hospital
architect helped demonstrate the benefits of the approach.

End Project surveys of the functionality of facilities (Project and non-project) found that
in Part 1 counties: 83.5 percent were completely functional overall, in Part II counties
76.3 percent were generally functional. It found that non-project facilities were only 47.8
percent functional. Part II counties had significantly less technical input prior to the
initiation of construction and did not benefit from the full CHRP process. The survey also
demonstrated specific dimensions of functionality (layout, work flow, use of floor space)
were much higher in Project areas than in non-project areas. Facilities built late in the
project were of even higher standard. Maintenance guidelines and procedures were also
developed for facilities (and equipment ­ see below) and maintenance allocations are
beginning to be made by county and facility managers in recognition of its importance to
attract and maintain staff and clients. A number of pilots to evaluate the potential of
alternate methods of providing energy for small rural hospitals (financed by other
development partners) were also undertaken with positive results. The use of passive
solar heating has potential for wide use in future construction. The MOH has now
adopted the construction implementation guidelines developed under Part I of the Project
to the recently expanded national construction program ­ a policy decision that will reap
very significant benefits.

The Project developed a list of basic equipment required to enable planned services to be
provided in the rehabilitated THCs.1 The equipment transformed the ability of facilities
to successfully offer basic services which otherwise were covered by referrals or not
provided at all. The equipment is relatively simple to operate and maintain and site visits
suggest the equipment is being used. The project purchased about 60 percent of the
equipment supplied while other funding sources ­ particularly H8SP financed the
remainder.




1The major items comprised: refrigerators for immunization; gynecological examination tables; obstetric
delivery tables; infant resuscitation bag, radiant heated rescue table and warmers for new born;
gastriclavage machines; microscopes; ECG machines; beta-ultrasound machines; X-ray machines;
operating tables; anesthesia machines and ambulances.




                                                       13

(c)      Improved Quality and Effectiveness of Health Services and Programs. Health
service quality was of crisis proportions at Project outset. Past, largely disease specific
projects, had made a limited patchwork of improvements where implemented but this
Project was the first systematic attempt to make structural changes to the health system
and the services provided. The Project aimed to improve: (i) the quality, user satisfaction
and utilization of THCs services; and (ii) the impact of public health programs through
enhanced implementation, coverage and utilization of key cost-effective interventions.

Two key health outcomes, the MMR and the IMR, which together are a reasonable test of
overall health system performance, made sound improvements over the Project period.
The MMR fell from 131.5 to 68.2 deaths per 100,000 births ­ a fall of 40 percent.
Surveys of non-project rural counties found the MMR fell by only 13.5 percent.2 While
this fall cannot be solely attributed to the Project (e.g. incomes rose significantly,
attitudes have changed, transport improved), the health sector had an impact. An analysis
of maternal deaths suggests fewer deaths occurred at home or in THCs, and, that deaths
due to postnatal hemorrhage and to postnatal infection fell ­ an indication that basic
services were working. The IMR fell from 36.8 to 18.9 live births in Part I counties ­
somewhat better than the average fall in rural counties. Specific data estimates for Part II
counties (Annex 2 part B) suggest the MMR more than halved while the IMR also fell
significantly. Intestinal parasite infection of children also fell significantly.

Project conditions required Part I counties to expend at least 25 percent of funds on
public health service improvement and no more than 50 percent on construction and
equipment. Part II counties needed to maintain domestic expenditure on health at 1996
levels and at least increase it as fast as the total budget. These basic conditions were
broadly met ­ although not in the early years. Counties implemented an agreed menu of
cost-effective public health interventions which had to include MCH (emphasizing
increased institutional delivery), immunization and tuberculosis treatment (if not already
supported by other projects). There was also a specific focus on emergency services
network development in Part II counties subsequently taken up by many Part I counties.

Part I Project output indicators demonstrated dramatic improvement (see Annex 2 Part A).
On the public health side: (i) immunization coverage increased from 77 to 98 percent; (ii)
implementation of the agreed post-natal care program improved from 73 percent (2002)
to 82 percent; (iii) hospital delivery increased from 20 to 75 percent; (iv) Hepatitis B
vaccination coverage rose from 42 to 67 percent; and (v) the proportion of the
tuberculosis control program using the standard DOTS protocol rose from 71 percent
(2002) to 100 percent.         Indicators of improved THC performance using protocols
developed under the Project include: (a) increased use of standard referral and
supervision protocols from 3 to 87 percent; (b) rising use of standard clinical protocols
for MCH from 2 to 81 percent; (c) increased compliance with national infection control
standards to 81 from 2 percent; (d) use of essential drugs (including village clinics) rising



2"Joint review of Maternal and Child Health Survival Strategies in China", report to the Ministry of Health,
UNICEF, WHO and UNFPA, December 2006.




                                                  14

from 1 to over 80 percent; and (e) rising compliance with national X-ray safety
requirements from 10 to 61 percent. Similarly Part II of the Project realized significant
changes in output indicators (see Annex 2 Part B) indicating improved access to primary
health services. Specifically, the proportion of mothers accessing new delivery methods
or having their child in a hospital increased. Importantly, there was a substantial increase
in the proportion of high-risk pregnant women delivering in a hospital. The share of
children receiving the "systematic package" of services from the health system more than
doubled in each province while vaccine coverage increased on average by 20 to 25
percentage points to the mid 90's.

Central to these achievements, and included in the CHRPs for funding in Part I counties,
were efforts to: (a) invest in human resources (about 16 percent of project funds); (b)
reform THC hospital staffing and management; (c) develop clinical guidelines and
standardize drug lists; (d) increase the focus of THCs and counties on prevention; (e)
improve clinical supervision in hospitals; (f) establish a two-way clinical referral system;
and (g) expand the diagnostic and treatment capacity of THCs and village health services.
Training efforts were directed at the specific Project interventions. Most was short term,
focusing on clinical training, essential drug list use and clinical guidelines. Management
training, initially covering project management shifted focus to county health bureau staff
and THC managers and health policy development. The quality of THC staff was
significantly improved by reducing the number of unqualified staff from about 50 percent
to less than 20 percent with more than 80 percent qualified and receiving continuing
professional education. Almost one quarter of staff are Junior College or above graduates
­ up from 7 percent in 1998. A decision was finally taken to select THC managers on
merit and to give them power over key aspects of hiring and firing -- a significant shift in
accountabilities. The development of a range of clinical protocols and guidelines for
under-qualified and inexperienced staff and training on their use (management of
common illnesses, standard drug lists with clinical indications of their use, prescription
writing, infection control and X-ray safety standards) underpin quality improvements.

New methods of delivering services have evolved and are being institutionalized. The
range of tests available has increased but drugs remain the core revenue base of THCs.
Current financing arrangements have not been able to significantly reduce THC
dependence of drugs and tests to underpin revenues. Extensive supervision visits
designed to improve provider behaviors noted some change for the better but there were
many examples of inappropriate prescriptions still evident. This is part of a larger set of
health financing reforms that is currently under discussion.

(d) Increased Risk Sharing and Affordability of Essential Health Care for Poor
Families. The Project gave support: (i) to CMS programs; and (ii) MFA schemes for the
very poor. Prior to the Project, CMS schemes had collapsed ­ around 5 percent of rural
populations compared to almost universal coverage 15 years before. The initial CMS
effort encouraged Project counties to establish schemes based on a set of principles
designed to support government's 1997 policy for rural CMS schemes. Some 991
township CMS schemes were eventually supported. However local level governments
were loath to provide financial support to these activities in the absence of either financial



                                             15

support from the national government or clear guidelines on how they might evolve.
Consequently outcomes were very disappointing despite their initial promise. By 2000,
the focus shifted to undertake key studies of aspects of CMS design and management ­
particularly in poor counties. The H8SP project ran pilots in two counties to support this
effort. A new national CMS scheme (NCMS) was announced by GOC in 2003 which
provided both additional national resources and guidelines for their establishment. The
Project schemes were transformed into the NCMS and a number of counties applied to
host pilot schemes. By end 2006, 37 Part I counties and 13 part B counties had
established NCMS with project support. While the NCMS is a positive move in the right
direction, there are insufficient resources to enable it to work as intended. There is a need
for increased central government funding, a reduction in the cost share paid by families,
at least for those below the poverty line. Currently, the NCMS does not yet adequately
reduce out-of-pocket expenses and adequately risk share.             Further, there are few
incentives to encourage efficient supply of care ­ although, as discussed, Project supply
side interventions did improve hospital efficiencies in Project areas.

A key Project achievement was the demonstration that MFA for the very poor was
feasible. All Project counties established MFA schemes aimed at ensuring the poorest 5
percent of families (Part I counties) or 20 percent (Part II counties) received subsidies for
the costs of hospital treatment. Between 2002 and 2005, 87,648 people received an
average of 227 RMB per hospital admission ­ an average subsidy of 39 percent. The
Project financed the establishment of systems and procedures for the scheme. The
subsidies were county financed (Part I) as a condition of access to Project funds for the
construction component. In Part II counties Bank funds financed the subsidies, provided
health allocations were sustained as a share of the budget. In addition to subsidies for
hospital care (equivalent to 53 percent of average hospital costs per admission between
2002 and 2005) the scheme also provided free immunization and basic MCH services.
Open and transparent procedures were used to select beneficiaries and surveys in three
counties demonstrated over 90 percent of the population thought the process was fair.
Experience was gained in using mechanisms to control costs including contracting with
designated institutions, close monitoring and fines for unacceptable provider behavior. As
the first large scale experiment in China with a health safety net this is a significant
achievement. Many MOH officials believe the scheme has both changed the GOC
mindset and built capacity to support the national scheme.

3.3 Efficiency

At preparation the economic analysis largely justified the Project on the grounds of: (a)
its clear support of the CAS objectives; (b) consistency with the direction for health
reforms proposed by sector work; (c) documentation of the cost-effectiveness of standard
public health interventions proposed to be implemented; (d) likely fiscal impact; and (e)
its poverty targeting objectives. No formal cost benefit analysis of the overall Project was
undertaken at appraisal or for this ICR. As discussed, the Project objectives have
remained fully consistent with subsequent Bank CAS documents and with successive
developments of health reform in China over the past decade. Project components aimed
to redress three key rural health problems: (i) inefficiency and imbalance of capital



                                              16

investment; (ii) inefficiency in achieving health gains from health expenditures; and (iii)
financial barriers to access services for the very poor.

The Project has transformed the quality of hospital and ambulatory care services
available in Project counties and has seen clear improvement in efficiency. Hospital
buildings are made of significantly better and longer lasting materials and are more
functional. Hospital and bed numbers have been reduced and bed occupancy rates
improved. Staff quality has been dramatically improved and the autonomy of staff
management increased. On the other hand, there is evidence that both bed and hospital
numbers could have been reduced further without hitting supply or access constraints
while increasing their cost-effectiveness. There is still scope to improve hospital
functionality. The Project successfully increased expenditures on "soft" items including
training which has helped improve the capacity and quality of services able to be
provided. The increase in public health expenditures, as discussed, has been significant.
These have been focused on standard international best practice cost-effective
interventions adapted to Chinese conditions. These service were often not previously
available, were often too expensive and inefficiently supplied. The documented impact
on health outcomes including the MMR and IMR has been a very significant Project
achievement ­ including for the poor. The implementation of MFA schemes in all
counties to provide subsidies for the very poor has been a dramatic success. The Project
has assisted in developing the capacity of counties to implement community insurance
schemes and the NCMS is a significant step in the right direction. However, more needs
to be done to increase the insurance against major health events which is part of the
broader health financing reform currently under discussion.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory.

The Project remained fully consistent with the Bank CASs and the current CPS designed
to support GOC's development strategy. The Project also responded well to assist
implementation of official health policy in place both at its outset and with subsequent
developments. The Project and key officials involved in its implementation positively
influenced national health policy development. More specifically, significant gains have
been made in reducing the MMR and IMR in Project areas and in meeting other key
Project output aims. Public finance for these types of investments in health are fully
justified on public good grounds, particularly those developing the oversight functions,
extending public health services and reducing the costs to poor families. Reforms on the
supply side, as discussed, have been relatively successful. On the demand side CMS
schemes have moved in the right direction and MFA scheme for the very poor have
proved feasible and have largely met objectives.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The Project aimed to
be socially inclusive and was focused on the needs of mothers and children ­ particularly
the poor. China's minority nationalities were also well represented in the populations



                                              17

covered by the project. Project surveys suggest success in ensuring access to services of
both the poor and of ethnic minorities (the overlap of these two groups is significant). At
Project outset and completion ambulatory care visits (in a two week period) increased
from 11.8 percent to 21.9 percent of the population respectively. The proportion of the
impoverished population (bottom 20 percent) who made use of clinics rose to 31.1
percent. Hospital admission rates (in the past year) increased from 2.1 to 3.6 percent of
the population as a whole over the Project period while 5.7 percent of the poor had a
hospital admission in the year prior to Project closure. The proportion of low income
groups, not being admitted to hospital when they should have been, fell from two thirds
to one third over the Project period. Similarly, access to hospitals for females and
minorities also improved significantly. The proportion of minorities not being treated at
clinics fell from 12.9 percent to 9.4 percent ­ the same figures for females was 13.2
percent to 10.5 percent, respectively.      Access to hospital deliveries also increased
dramatically for minorities and the very poor. The proportion of hospital deliveries for
minorities increased from 12.7 percent at Project outset to 74.3 percent at closure.
Similarly for the very poor hospital deliveries increased from 17.1 percent to 72.7 percent,
respectively, while for the Project population it increased from 19.1 percent to 80.2
percent. These results indicate the Project had a positive impact on social inclusion,
gender and poverty.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening. The Project made a substantial contribution to
development of the institutional infrastructure necessary to reform the health system in
China ­ particularly at the county level in poor areas. It has also made a significant
contribution, as discussed, to health sector policy development and to the human resource
capacity required to implement reforms on a national scale. The 1997 Health Policy
signaled the need to rebuild services in rural (poor) areas that had collapsed and that there
was a need for local level planning ­ a clear break from the past ­ but it did not determine
how this should be done. The Project CHRP process became a significant platform
around which local (county) officials could debate and review local policy initiatives and
Project activities and plan and monitor their implementation. The need for county
government to approve the CHRP helped ensure ownership, resources and
accountabilities for the complex reforms and local services. The establishment of an
improved information system, supported by specific surveys, improved the information
base for decision making. Significant capacity was developed to: (i) design, build and
equip improved hospitals; (ii) plan technical content and implement public health
programs; (iii) establish improved referral systems and treatment protocols; (iv) manage
hospitals more effectively; (v) develop complex administrative processes and the staff
capacity to implement CMS and MFA schemes; and (vi) to undertake and sustain reforms.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low.

There do not appear to be any substantial risks of political or economic instability which
would negatively influence the development outcomes achieved by the Project.
Sustained economic growth and rapidly increasing public revenues are dramatically and
positively altering the environment within which the health sector operates and having a



                                             18

sustained positive impact on health outcomes. GOC ownership, at national, provincial
and county levels of Project outcomes and the processes established to support the health
reforms is very substantial. Health policy developments during the Project period have
significantly reinforced the direction of health reform in rural areas and additional
national resources are now being devoted to rural health programs ­ the latter indicating
there will likely be fiscal space for provincial and county governments to continue the
reforms. Post-Project closure national health policy initiatives suggest GOC intends to
further the rural health sector reforms.       Legislation, policies and protocols, many
developed under the Project, and substantial training for technical and managerial staff
provide an important underpinning for both sustainability of outcomes and their further
development. Formal decisions to apply policies, processes and outcomes developed
under the Project to national programs including: (i) the dramatically improved
guidelines on the design and quality of hospital construction and their equipment; (ii) the
sound medical and public health protocols; and (iii) implementation of medical assistance
programs targeted to the very poor auger well for the sustainability and extension of these
Project outcomes.

Nevertheless, it is evident that GOC continues to face major rural health reform
challenges. If these are not carefully addressed in the future, progress made may stall and
many families will not be able to afford (or will be pushed into poverty) due to high out-
of-pocket health expenses. Individual health facilities may not remain financially viable
and/or will continue to depend on revenue from pharmaceutical sales to underpin
revenues with the consequent incentives for inappropriate use of pharmaceuticals at the
expense of patients ­ and quality of service provided. Solutions to these problems will
entail increased national resources for health to support local level governments (to
reduce the need for out-of-pocket charges) and the resurrection of viable CMS schemes
which should also include incentives to achieve further health provider efficiencies to
lower costs.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.

The Project was diligently prepared and appraised over a two year period. The GOC
preparation team was supported by a team of Bank experts with a wide range of
appropriate technical skills and a deep knowledge of the past and existing project
portfolio in the health sector in China. The team was also able to be guided and supported
by extensive sector work, with substantial borrower involvement and responsibility,
which was undertaken before and in parallel with project preparation. As discussed, the
project objectives were fully aligned with the core objectives of both the Bank's CAS and
GOC health policy statements. Careful consideration of past project lessons learned is
evident in its design, and, in particular, the Project has clear linkages to, and builds on,
the results and lessons of the preceding Bank financed Integrated Health Development



                                             19

Project. The systematic process to develop the Project by the Bank team, and the depth
of policy dialogue, is clearly evident from the preparation documentation (and from
discussions with GOC officials).       Evident strong GOC/MOH/FLO ownership was
essential given the complexity of government and the health reforms being canvassed.

Project design aimed to achieve far reaching development outcomes but it also
recognized the significant risks which might hamper implementation. In this context
Project design was informed by: (i) an explicit analysis of identified risks and actions
required to reduce them; (ii) an analysis of the capabilities of key implementing agencies
and the support needed to enhance their capabilities to implement the Project; (iii) an
analysis of and agreement on the principles and capacities which needed to be developed
to underpin community insurance and medical assistance for the very poor; (iv) a sound
social assessment and stakeholder analysis which also identified issues that affect
minority nationalities. Strong attention was also focused on how best to significantly
improve the technical quality and relevance of county public health programs,
ambulatory care clinics in villages and THCs and of CTH services. The Project also had
well prepared implementation plans prepared by government. Other up-front actions also
included: (a) key government approvals; (b) establishment of the NEP; (c) agreement that
provinces would establish PEPs to support Project implementation; (d) PLGs to
spearhead Project decision making at national, provincial and county levels; and (e) a
first annual work plan with associated budgets approved.

The Project, for various reasons, encountered significant implementation delays. Reasons
for this were complex and included: (i) an underestimation of the time the Project needed
to invest in the NEP and PEPs; (ii) uncertainty in many counties about the degree of
freedom they had to take decisions independent of MOH/GOC on new policy; (iii)
county concern at building up debt (from the Credit) in the context of uncertain GOC
revenue flows; and (iv) delays in the establishment of Project special accounts and
agreement on procedures by which county and province special accounts would be
replenished. The latter issue and the initial confusions over who should be responsible
for the repayment of loans, should have been sorted out up-front as part of the preparation.

The Project team received extremely high praise by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group
(July 1999) for the Projects "quality at entry". The panel rated it "highly satisfactory".

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision missions were consistently carried out on a regular basis, apart from an
almost one year disruption due to the SARS outbreak in 2003. Given the complex and
hierarchical structure of the Project, Bank supervision needed, appropriately, to rely
heavily on the supervision efforts required to be undertaken by each higher level of
government of activities managed and implemented by the next lower level. Initial
experience suggested this was an appropriate approach but that it stretched the
capabilities of Bank supervision teams to sustain the work load arising from the span of
control and complexity of the Project. There was a major positive revision of the overall



                                             20

supervision strategy after year one following the decision of DFID to fund H8SP. It was
decided: (i) the Bank and DFID would combine resources and jointly supervise the
combined Projects under Bank leadership; and (ii) to establish a CST financed by H8SP
comprising three international technical experts to assist in the supervision process
collaboratively with FLO and the Bank/DFID supervision teams. This was a pivotal
development. While ultimate responsibility for Bank/DFID supervision remained with
the project supervision team, the CST: (a) provided needed additional technical expertise;
(b) developed a deep and detailed knowledge of the Project and the Chinese rural health
system; and (c) established a very important, sound and trusted professional working
relationship with key FLO officials and with every level of the system. The CST also
often acted as a healthy interlocutor between the Bank/DFID and FLO.

Project supervision was focused, robust as appropriate, and diligent when it came to
identifying and resolving technical, managerial and fiduciary problems as they arose.
Supervision missions were staffed with well qualified and appropriate professionals able
to participate and contribute to strategic discussions on policy and implementation issues
and the way forward (often through major national seminars held on specific topics as
they arose during supervision missions). The CRHPs for Part I counties and the annual
plans for Part II counties and associated Project monitoring plans produced by relevant
government health agencies ably supported by the NEP and PEPs ­ and the CST ­
provided a good vehicle to focus supervision dialogue with government both during
supervision missions and on a "continuous" basis through both the resident mission (and
DFID Beijing office) and with the support of the CST.

The aide memoire addressed management and technical aspects of the Project well. This
process provided clear support to FLO and lower levels of government and assisted in
setting implementation priorities. The benefits of this work were often reflected in
subsequent revised CHRPs and annual work plans. The early work of supervision
missions included a focus on: (i) the need for critical counterpart funds; (ii) problems
with planning and execution of procurement across all levels of government ­ both NCB
and ICB; (iii) improvements in the CHRP processes; and (iv) increasing focus on
monitoring and the improvement of the information system ­ all areas of the Project rated
as unsatisfactory in at least part of its first phase. Strong emphasis was also put on
advocating and addressing the problems associated with the quality and efficiency of
construction and on the implementation of the agreements to establish MFA schemes.
The supervision team also encouraged the GOC to take a cautious approach to the CMS
and to develop the systems necessary to enable it to be operationally feasible and
economically viable. The mid-term review appropriately supported all agencies to review
progress made and reschedule project activities having agreed that core objectives of the
Project remained valid.

Following the revised national health policy statement of late 2002, and the SARS
epidemic of 2003, MOH worked to increase the tempo of Project implementation.
Supervision missions were able to focus on technical and policy issues of the Project,
particularly its public health aspects, the specific health needs of the poor and new
opportunities arising from increased financing for rural health arising from the new



                                             21

national policy. The Project agenda was at the forefront of the national health policy
debate. Seminars held during supervision missions played a role in this national dialogue
and helped dissemination of results ­ problems, successes and possible solutions --
encountered in implementation of Project activities and pilots.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project "quality at entry" and supervision are both rated satisfactory, so the overall
rating is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

GOC demonstrated strong ownership of the Project through both an intensive preparation
process and in its implementation. Ownership and the political will to deal with some
difficult issues increased over time as problems with the poor quality and inaccessibility
of rural health programs rose in the national political and economic agenda. GOC policy
became increasingly concerned with the growing divide between rural and urban area and
between those reaping the benefits of the significant growth. Health policy development,
as discussed, has considerably strengthened the environment within which the project
was implemented and this also augers well for future sustainability of the results ­
including through additional national government financing for the sector. Each
government level appointed "leading groups" to oversee Project approvals and
implementation and appointed key project staff in county and provincial health bureaus to
implement local project activities ­ sometimes with some initial delays because of the
major national public sector reforms which were limiting total civil service levels.

The willingness to appoint a well qualified and experienced NEP (and the PEPs) and
enable the Project (and H8SP) to: (a) invest in these teams through training and study
tours to expose them to international best practice; and (b) disseminate knowledge and
lead the critical internal policy dialogue, also demonstrated the seriousness attached to
the Project by all governments involved. The main areas where government could have
performed better include: (i) allowing more "software" financing of knowledge and
quality enhancing operational costs to be financed by the Project and/or by national
resources (H8SP made a critical investment in this area, the absence of which could have
jeopardized final Project outcomes); (ii) ensuring sufficient and more timely counterpart
funds particularly in the early years of the Project; (iii) clarifying much earlier that health
facilities would not have to repay to the national government through counties and
provinces the funds borrowed for hospital construction, equipment and other activities
(which delayed political approvals for Project activities ­ particularly at county level);
and (iv) taking a more cautious and considered approach to the launch of the new CMS
scheme, drawing more on Project and international experience to better ensure objectives
could be met. However, these problems are perhaps better seen as missed opportunities
and do not detract from the significant Project outcomes actually achieved.


                                             22

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

At the national level MOH through FLO was responsible for overall coordination of the
project and conduct of national level activities. MOH established a national PLG chaired
by a Vice Minister and comprising high level representatives of the main divisions of the
MOH to be responsible for high level oversight of all aspects of the Project. FLO acted as
secretariat to the PLG and operated the national level management office (PMO) jointly
with the MOH Department of Finance and Planning.              The major management and
coordination of county project activities was the responsibility of the provincial
government, primarily through the provincial bureau of health (BOH) guided by the
national level and a PEP to provide technical support and supervision. Each BOH
established a project management office (PMO) responsible for logistics of
implementation, preparation of work plans, progress monitoring and reporting and
coordination of the PEP and to support the PLG. At the county level implementation was
the responsibility of the BOH (through a project management office) with guidance from
the provincial level and from the county leading group.

MOH. The Project was undertaken with dedication and enthusiasm, with an eye to
Project objectives at all stages, and, with a full appreciation of its complexity and a need
to draw on both national and international expertise to underpin the policy development
and pilots undertaken. While initially understaffed and under-resourced, the PMO was
staffed with experts who had been involved in the sector and had an understanding of
Bank projects. The FLO/PMO developed its own project related expertise but also fully
facilitated and actively drew on the expertise of the PLG, the NEP and other technical
assistance that was needed to bring both international and local knowledge to underpin
policy dialogue and to implementation issues. This was critical to developing and
sustaining institutional capacity and sectoral knowledge. By-and-large Project
coordination, implemented in a dynamic national policy environment, was competent.
Annual plans and their monitoring reports, while sometimes delayed, nevertheless,
proved to be a sound management tool to monitor project implementation progress and to
resolve issues as they arose.

The FLO maintained a sound professional relationship with the Bank and other
developments partners that became involved in the Project and proactively drew on their
expertise in many key areas embraced by the Project. They also encouraged increased use
of social assessments and stakeholder consultations ­ a significant positive development.
Project covenants were largely kept and fairly quickly rectified where they were in
danger of not being compliant. There were no major fiduciary issues relating to financial
reporting, auditing, and procurement. Some administrative issues related to uncertainties
in procurement management and the acquittal and replenishment of project accounts in
the early years of the Project, and ensuring the confusion over responsibilities for project
debt at the lower levels of government could have each been deal with more
expeditiously. Overall, MOH/FLO successfully ensured the key outcomes agreed for the
Project were basically achieved.



                                             23

Provincial/County Entities. Although there was variation in county and provincial
performance, the majority of Part I counties prepared, monitored and updated their
CHRPs competently and together with all Part II counties also produced their annual
work plans as a basis for detailed implementation and monitoring with due diligence. The
preparation of these plans provided a very important platform for local officials to enter
into a detailed policy dialogue on how best to meet local needs and increasingly enabled
local officials to take responsibility for area planning rather than rely on top down
instructions. PLGs were critical for gaining formal government approvals of plans and
their financing. Where staff involved in PLGs were more reform minded and committed
to Project objectives, the tone was set for more focused implementation.

The local BOH, including the PMOs, and PEPs, supported by the national level, were
generally well staffed and increasing able to design, implement and monitor project
activities. Implementing the Project in all its aspects required a long and steep learning
curve at both the national and local level. Given the time it took the national level to get
on top of many of the specific design and strategy issues which they then had to enter
into dialogue with local level agencies, it is understandable that early implementation was
sometimes delayed or of lesser quality that in later phases of the Project. Many local
(and national) officials emphasized the learning by doing nature of the Project and the
transformational nature of the quality and efficiency gains of the investments in hospitals
and equipment; the focus on the demand side of the health system; and of the focus on
the poor through the MFA programs and to a lesser extent the CMS. In this context the
capacity of local level governments and health officials to manage policy dialogue, plan
new complex initiatives and implement them significantly increased over time. The
PMOs and the PEPs were critical in this process. While problems with: (a) special
account acquittal and replenishment processes; (b) procurement processes and
procedures; and (c) the production of monitoring reports somewhat delayed
implementation progress, the problems were eventually overcome by the PMOs. Some
of the scarce human resource capacity built up with the design and management of MFA
and CMS programs within counties (and provinces) is now in high demand from across
the nation as these programs go national indicating there is recognition of the capacities
developed and a need to sustain the training program capacities developed under the
Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

For the reasons stated above, the overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

General Applicability: to all projects

· Strong ownership and commitment at highest levels of government, together with a
    group of empowered, reform-minded professionals charged with task of



                                               24

  implementing major reform projects and who understand the major risks and
  strategies to overcome them is critical to ultimate success of a reform project. An
  ability to change project details in response to a dynamic and positive national policy
  environment is also important.
· Designed appropriately, projects provide a very good platform for sound policy
  dialogue and reform strategy design and implementation.
· A well-prepared Project Implementation Plan supported by a strong preparation team
  improves understanding of project objectives, activities and client ownership. It also
  smoothes project implementation and helps clarify implementation responsibilities.
· The active involvement of responsible agencies, officials and experts (national and
  provincial) in operational study design and monitoring succeeds in increasing national
  (and local) evidence-based debate and in translating findings into policy.
· Community participation and stake holder consultations assists with both ownership
  and clarity of objectives and implementation strategies.

General Applicability: to Health Sector Projects

· Well designed support of dedicated local experts (through training and study tours ­
  both international and local), who are charged with leadership of reform and project
  implementation (at each level of government) is a sound investment. Time needs to
  be allowed for this support in the phasing of project implementation.
· At a macro level, a Project large enough to be an important platform to: (a) capture
  national attention and create space for policy discussion and debate; and (b) that
  enables local experts to lead the policy and implementation process (supported by
  exposure to international best practice) enables a Project to support an active learning
  by doing process by both individuals and institutions.
· Establishment of public health programs can have significant impacts on health
  outcomes in low income environments. Public expenditure on these programs are
  justified on public finance criteria because of both their public good nature and that
  typically the poor are more than proportionally excluded from such services. Work
  under the Project has demonstrated the benefit of increased public subsidies in these
  areas and the resultant improvement in health status ­ including the reductions in the
  MMR and IMR.
· To substantially increase the coverage of ambulatory and hospital care, particularly
  for the poor, in a system highly reliant on fees, it is critical that a choice of efficient
  and affordable quality services are offered and that adequate subsidies and
  information are provided to consumers to enable informed decisions. The project
  made progress in improving the quality and efficiency (lowered costs) of hospitals but
  more progress can still be made including through improved provider incentives. The
  MFA programs demonstrated that the very poor could benefit from targeted subsidies
  but many services remain unaffordable to many and they are often the cause of a
  family falling into extreme poverty. Health insurance schemes still provide limited
  protection but additional public funds, particularly at the county level, are required to
  make further progress along the lines initiated by the Project.




                                           25

· Project training can contribute to overall capacity building, support implementation of
    changed technical protocols and processes for service delivery and help
    institutionalize management systems when systematically conducted.
· Expert panels are a very sound way to: (a) harness national skills to deal with
    technical issues; and (b) enhance individual and institutional capacity. Expert panels
    have played an indispensable role in policy development and technical leadership
    across a broad range of project activities. Panels, because of their professional status,
    can become very influential in development of national policy and ensure national
    policy is influenced by project experience and lessons learned.
· A contracted Core Supervision Team was a critical method of ensuring appropriate
    supervision of the Project by the Bank (and DFID) in the context of a complex project
    being implemented in many locations across the country. The CST was able to build
    up an almost unique knowledge of the Project and issues surrounding the
    implementation of each of its components across the country. They became fully
    trusted by GOC and the Bank/DFID supervision team and played an important
    interlocutor role to help all sides better understand the policy and implementation
    issues as they arose.
· The strong leadership of FLO in coordinating subsequent donor support to the Project,
    particularly the DFID H8SP, and the partnership developed between all parties
    assisted in smooth operation and supervision of both projects and in ensuing good
    outcomes. This development partnership is a demonstration of what can happen
    when all parties: (a) share one set of strategic objectives for the Project; and (b)
    recognize the capacity of government and strongly support its leadership in
    implementing the Project.
· The internal policy of GOC which requires under-resourced counties to repay Bank
    credits creates serious problems for counties (and provinces) and ultimately impacts
    on the fees charged and/or the viability of hospitals and service providers to the extent
    they become liable for the repayment. It also creates, inappropriately, a reluctance to
    spend on quality enhancing training, technical assistance and other intangible items of
    expenditure. On the other hand it probably increases ownership of local governments
    to expenditures undertaken because they have to repay the loans. Ultimately it is
    important to get the incentives right and this probably argues for rapidly increasing
    current national government revenues allocated to local government programs
    including health.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co-financiers

As discussed, in strict legal terms, DFID and other development partners were not co-
financiers of the Project (see section 1.7). However, functionally and through the active
cooperation between all parties (including GOC), the Project was effectively co-financed.

This evaluation concurs with DFID that the Project was successful in meeting core
objectives. It also concurs with the DFID sponsored independent evaluation that the



                                             26

H8SP made a significant positive contribution to the Project through its support of: (a)
national support functions to provinces and counties (including additional technical
assistance, support of the CST, operational support for the NEP, PEPs and FLO); (b)
intensive county pilots; and (c) administrative support to Qinba region (Part II) counties
(see Annex 8). It also agrees with other partners, as reflected in documentation and
consultations, that their support made a significant contribution to specific elements of
the Project. All parties have agreed that separate stand-alone projects would not have
made strategic sense and that the Project was a unique platform for dialogue and
partnership with GOC.




                                            27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                 Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest
              Components                                                                             Percentage of
                                                    (USD millions)               Estimate (USD
                                                                                    millions)         Appraisal

PART I Basic Health Services
Improved Planning, Management
And Health Infrastructure                                     42.32                     59.15           140.0

Improved Health Service Quality
And Effectiveness                                             23.67                     33.75           143.0

Increased Affordability Of Health
Services                                                      12.45                      9.85            79.1

Project Coordination And
Support                                                         7.34                     6.96            94.8

PART II. Qinba Health
Program
Health Service Delivery                                       14.31                     16.10           112.5
Health Service Utilization                                      3.40                     4.26           125.3
Project Coordination and Support                                1.12                     5.85           522.3


                 Total Baseline Cost                         104.61                    135.93

Contingencies                                                 24.59                     ---
                  Total Project Costs                        129.20
       Total Financing Required                              129.20                    135.93

Errors Due to Rounding


(b) Financing
                                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest

              Source of Funds                              Type of            Estimate       Estimate  Percentage of
                                                        Cofinancing              (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                                              millions)      millions)
International Development
Association (IDA)                                     Credit                       85.00       98.42

Government                                                                          44.2       37.51
Below Line Partner Support*
DFID                                                  Grant                                    66.60       Na.
Ford Foundation                                       Grant                                      0.50      Na.
China Foundation                                      Grant                                      2.10      Na.
Global Environment Facility                           Grant                                      0.75      Na.
ORBIS                                                 Grant                                    0.054       Na.
Canadian CIDA                                         Grant                                      0.10      Na.
Total
* All partners joined Project after Appraisal (see section 1.7). Na = not applicable




                                                                  28

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The agreed Key Performance Indicators were set out in the Project Design Summary
(Annex 1 of the PAD) together with information on how: (i) they were to be monitored;
and (ii) the critical risks/assumptions which might affect their achievement. A number of
indicators were to be fully specified after further definition after appraisal. The baseline
data and achievements at Project completion were derived from surveys and analysis of
progress reports, special surveys and relevant health information systems. The Key
indicators were designed to capture and reflect the essence of the significantly complex
Project but also encompass: (a) overall Project Development Indicators; and (b) Project
Output Indicators by Project Component for both Part A and Part B of the Project. A
summary version of this data set was captured in Aide Memoires and/or Project Status
Reports during Project supervision. These are also presented in Section F of the Basic
Data Sheet.

Table A. Part A of Project: Selected Indicators of Achievement of Project
Objectives.

Component                 Indicator                    Base Line          At Project
                                                                          Completion


Project Development
Objectives:

The Project aimed to
assist the government
to achieve sustainable
health improvements
for the populations of
poor rural counties
through:

(i)      improved         · Bed occupancy rate of       25.4%/33.9%        51.1%/63.0%
         allocation and       THCs /CTHs.
         management
         of health        · Ratio of OPD visits:         3.4/2.9            3.2/2.9
         resources;           professional staff in
                              THCs /CTHs.

(ii)     Upgrading of     · # % upgraded health
         health               facilities according to    1,214 (0%)         1,107 (85%)
         facilities at        CHRP.
         township
         level;

(iii) Improved quality    · (%) CTHs have both
         and                  effective referral and     1,214 (0%)         1,107 (90%)
         effectiveness        supervision agreements
         of health            with county hospitals and



                                                 29

        services and     using standard clinical
        programs; and    protocols.


(iv) Increased risk    · # of townships with
        sharing and      CMS lasting two or more   1,214 (2%)   991 (80 %)
        the              years.
        affordability
        of essential   · % of the eligible poor        0%          90%
        health care for  population receiving
        poor families    MFA.




                                           30

Project Outputs:


Component A.
Planning,
Management & Health
Infrastructure.

A1. Establish system
and capability for      · # (%) counties with         32 (41%)   71 (100%)

CHRP.                     approved CHRP and
                          annual review.


A2. Upgraded health
facilities at both      · # (%) upgraded facilities    0 (0%)      95 (100%)
central and general       according to CHRP.
townships to meet the
needs for their
revisited functions
under the CHRP.

A3. Improved            · (%) of counties/towns
information system,       with an information        31% (4%)     100% (85%)
which can provide         system working to
useful and timely         stipulated standard
information to health     reports.
service managers and
other interested parties· (%) counties providing
at each level.            satisfactory six monthly     na.           na.
                          project reports and health
                          sector status reports
                          within target date.


Component B.
Health Service
Improvement:

B1. Improved quality    · % THCs having effective      3%           87%

of health services at     referral and supervision
township and village      agreements
level through:
implementing referral   · % THCs using standard        2%           85%

and supervision           clinical protocols for
agreements between        MCH
service levels;
introducing standard    · % THC complying with         2%           81%

case management           national infection control
protocols;                requirements.
implementing national
hospital procedures


                                             31

for infection control  · %THC complying with         10%             61%
and X-ray safety; and    national X-ray safety
introducing policies     requirements.
and procedures to
reduce dangerous and   · %THC/village clinics       1%/1%        81%/84%
excessive drug use.      using essential drugs.

B2. Improved county    · Rate of antenatal care
wide programs to                                    81% (2002)       87%
prevent or control     · Rate of hospitalized
selected high priority   delivery                      20%           75%
health problems for
which cost-effective   · Rate of post-natal care    73% (2002)        82%
interventions are
available in China, but· Immunization coverage         77%            98%
not yet adequately       (4 common diseases)
implemented in
project areas.         · Coverage of Hep B                           67%
                                                       42%

                       · DOTS Management of        71% (2002)    100%
                         TB


Component C.
Cooperative Medical
System (CMS).

C1. Establish CMS      · People enrolled in CMS   193,778       10,236,498

schemes in the project
areas.                 · Very poor receiving
                         hospitalization benefit
                         from MFA                      0          54,290


                       · Very poor women               0          16,780

                         receiving institutional
                         delivery as MFA benefit

                       · % townships and CMS           0%           90% (started)

                         schemes meeting agreed                  Approx 35% compliant

                         conditions for project                 (10% NCMS)

                         support.
C2. Establish a
program for MFA for    · % of the poor among the
the very poor.           eligible population          0%               90%

                         receiving support from
                         MFA Program
                                                      0%
                       · % Amount of MFA                               100%

                         program expenditure




                                            32

Component D.
Project Coordination
and Support.

D1. Provide the         · % provinces with fully           20%               100%

structure for effective     staffed PMO
project planning,
budgeting,              · Average time for claim
management and              and disbursement cycle      9 months            3 months

technical supervision       in each province
at provincial and
central levels.

D2. Improve the         · # of visits by provincial
capacity of provinces       experts to the project      Na but regularly Na but very
to provide technical        counties                                     regularly
support to the project
areas and to            · % of counties complying
disseminate the             with their annual training    Approx 50%
experience gained in        plans by component.                          Approx 90%
project areas to other
counties.

D3. Ensure that the
central level can
provide technical       · # of visits by central
support to the              experts to the project     na but regularly

provinces and use the       provinces.                                   na but very
experience of the                                                        regularly
project to contribute to
policy development
and national
dissemination.


Table B. Part B of Project: Selected Indicators of Achievement of Project Objectives.

Component               Project Province               Base Line         At Project
                                                                         Completion

1. Improved
Capacity of Primary
Health Service
Provision

(i) Number and %         Sichuan                        0/0%              73/100%
target of rebuilt and    Shaanxi                        0/0%              73/100%
renovated THCs.          Ningxia                        0/0%              20/100%

(ii) Accumulative        Sichuan                       Very Limited       54,074
hours THC and village    Shaanxi                       Very Limited       38,500



                                               33

medical staff trained   Ningxia         Very Limited    13,295

2. Improved Access
to Primary health
Services

(i) New method of       Sichuan         65.6 %          95.1%
delivery %              Shaanxi         66.4%           99.6%
                        Ningxia         39.6%           93.3%

(ii) Hospital           Sichuan         32.4%           73.1%
delivery %              Shaanxi         31.3%           85.7%
                        Ningxia          7.1%           55.5%

(iii) Hospital delivery Sichuan         65.3%           96.7%
for high-risk pregnant  Shaanxi         30%             98.3%
women %                 Ningxia         70.2%           87.9%

(iv) Systematic         Sichuan          68.2%          76.2%
management of           Shaanxi          70.6%          89.3%
pregnant women %        Ningxia           --            73.8%

(v) Systematic          Sichuan          41.3           77.1% *
management of           Shaanxi          34.0           82.1% *
children %              Ningxia          0.0            54.8% *

(vi) Planned
immunization %
(Target 85%) :

BCG Vaccine             Sichuan          60.5%          96.8%
                        Ningxia          88.7%          96.9%

Neonatotetus            Sichuan          77.5%          96.3%
                        Ningxia          87.9%          96.4%

Poliomyelitis           Sichuan          71.1%          96.9%
                        Ningxia          95.9%          97.5%

Measles                 Sichuan          74.5%          96.1%
                        Ningxia          87.6%          96.6%

Management of TB        Shaanxi           0%            96.5%
smear %

3. Improved Health
in Project Areas.

IMR                     Sichuan         44.3%           15.7%
                        Shaanxi          72.2%          11.6%
                        Ningxia          41.7%          19.1%


                                   34

Maternal and antenatal Sichuan                      145.4               56.2
mortality (1/10)j)     Shaanxi                       83.3               39.4
                       Ningxia                      219.0               62.6
Intestinal parasite
infection %            Sichuan                      36.7% (2002)        20.6% **
                       Shaanxi                      27.2% (2002)        19.0% **
                       Ningxia                      26.3% (2002)        23.0% **


Note: -- missing data; * systematic management rate of children under 7 years in 1996;
** 2005 data.




                                         35

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic rate of return was not estimated for the overall Project at the time of
appraisal, nor was it calculated after closure.




                                             36

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title               Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Xiaowei Guo              Sr Procurement Spec.             EAPCO
L. Richard Meyers        Lead Operations Officer (TTL)    EASHD
Jinan Shi                Sr Procurement Spec.             EAPCO
Shuo Zhang               Operations Officer               EASHD



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY88                                                                 1.28
  FY89                                                                 2.44
  FY90                                                                10.38
  FY91                                                                12.84
  FY92                                                                 0.00
  FY93                                                                47.35
  FY94                                                               155.34
  FY95                                                               215.01
  FY96                                                                 0.00
  FY97                                                                 0.00
  FY98                                                                 0.00
  FY99                                                                 0.00
  FY00                                                                 0.00
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
                        Total:                                       444.64
Supervision/ICR
  FY88                                                                 0.00
  FY89                                                                 0.00
  FY90                                                                 0.00
  FY91                                                                 0.00
  FY92                                                                 0.69
  FY93                                                                 3.63


                                         37

FY94                       0.00
FY95                       5.99
FY96                     105.38
FY97                      76.93
FY98                      70.47
FY99                     121.76
FY00               29     77.92
FY01               21    108.19
FY02               17     88.34
FY03               14     70.02
FY04               16     36.94
FY05               15      0.00
FY06               14      0.00
FY07                8      0.00
        Total:    134    766.26




                 38

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                    39

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The FLO commissioned a major Project evaluation report written in 6 Chapters (180 pages)
which included key results of an end of project survey. This report was summarized and
presented to the ICR mission as the Borrowers views on the Project in the form of a report:
"Building Rural Health Systems: The Experience of China's Health VIII and Health Support
Projects (51 pp plus addendum of 8 pp)". The latter documents are summarized/excerpted below.
Section 5 is reproduced in full.

1. PROJECT DESIGN

In early 1995 the Government of China (GOC) and the World Bank agreed to develop a project
for strengthening basic health care in poor rural areas. There was a long design process, during
which 28 counties undertook major planning exercises. The final project addressed many of the
concerns in the 1997 GOC health policy document. Health VIII was launched in September 1998.
That year the Department for International Development of the UK (DFID) decided to support
China's health sector development. Its first project was the Health 8 Support Project (H8SP),
which funded additional technical assistance and intensive innovation and lesson learning. The
aim of Health VIII and H8SP was to help GOC achieve sustainable health improvement for the
populations of poor rural counties through a combination of supply and demand-side
interventions.

Total project expenditure came from the three major sources: World Bank Credit, Government
Counterpart Funds; and DFID grant was about 968 million RMB in Part A and 227 million RMB
in Part B ­ total of RMB 1,195 million with the Bank funding RMB 943.2 million (78.9 percent)
government RMB 40.9 million (3.4 percent) and DFID RMB 210.8 million (17.7 percent)(Note:
the terms Part A and Part B are used in this section to refer Parts I and II, respectively). A number
of agencies including the Ford Foundation, China Foundation, Global Environment Facility,
ORBIS, SIDA and the Japan Social Development Fund provided an additional $4.25 million for
activities linked to the project.

The implementation strategy emphasized the integration of project activities into the routine work
of the relevant county and township government departments'

The choice of a comprehensive approach posed a number of challenges. The project counties
were experiencing rapid economic, institutional and demographic change. Large central
government investments were transforming the transport system and creating many economic
opportunities for their residents. These changes affected the burden of disease, health-seeking
behavior, attitudes of health workers and sources of health finance.

Many factors outside the project's control influenced health system performance, including public
finance, human resource management and local government planning and regulation. This had
important implications for sequencing health system changes. For example, many people who
began work in health facilities during the 1970s did not have appropriate qualifications. By the
end of the project many unskilled health workers had retired. Meanwhile, a previous expansion in
training institutions resulted in an increase in the number of graduates seeking jobs. This greatly
improved the prospects for improved township hospital performance. The investment by Health
VIII in upgrading facilities and improving human resource management yielded major benefits as


                                                  40

the previous constraints were overcome. This illustrates the importance of context in sequencing
interventions and the need to take a longer-term perspective in assessing their impact.

China's decentralized government system influenced project implementation. The counties were
responsible for repaying most of the World Bank credit and the views of their government leaders
were influential. Project managers had to convince them of the value of interventions and the
project had to provide the appropriate technical support to help them implement change. The
project was also implemented during a period of major debate about future health policies. In
2003 the government announced it would support the rapid spread of county-level rural health
insurance schemes called the New Cooperative Medical System (NCMS), and it began to transfer
public funds to these schemes.

2. OVERALL ACHIEVEMENTS

2.1 Improved health status. The project counties achieved substantial health improvements
during the life of the project:
· Between 1998 and 2005 maternal mortality fell from 131.5 to 68.2 deaths per 100,000, a
    decrease of over forty percent. The falls in maternal mortality in project counties exceeded
    national trends. The ratio of maternal mortality in Part A counties to the national average for
    rural areas was 1.77 in 1998 and 1.29 in 2006. A recent review of trends in maternal
    mortality in non-project counties found that it fell by only 13.5 percent between 1996 and
    2004.3 The project counties did much better.
· An analysis of the deaths of 2,232 pregnant and delivering women in the project areas
    between 1998 and 2006 shows a significant change in the location of maternal deaths -- fewer
    deaths occurred at home or in township hospitals and more occurred in medical institutions at
    or above the county level, or in transit to one of these institutions. This suggests that, while
    the overall proportion of hospital deliveries has improved and the referral processes have
    strengthened, maternal deaths continue due to poor or absent transportation, late referral or
    inadequate emergency capacity at county-level institutions.
· The causes of maternal deaths have also changed. Between 1998 and 2000, 28.4 percent of
    maternal deaths were due to postnatal hemorrhage, which dropped to 21.9 percent between
    2004 and 2006. In the same period, death caused by postnatal infection dropped from 4.7
    percent to 2.9 percent. However the proportion of deaths due to amniotic fluid embolism and
    uterine failure rose. These changes indicate that, despite improving obstetric services, further
    attention needs to be paid to effective referral and management during high-risk pregnancies.
· During the life of the project infant mortality fell from 36.8 to 18.9 per 1000 live births in
    Part A counties. This compares with the average improvement for all rural counties which fell
    75 to 40 per 1000 births.
· The decline in infant deaths in project counties was accompanied by a change in the causes of
    death. During all stages of the project there was a slight rise in the proportion of neonatal
    deaths (0 to 7 days) and a small decline in the rate of infant deaths. This trend occurred in all




3'Joint Review of Maternal and Child Survival Strategies in China', report to the Ministry of Health, UNICEF,
WHO and UNFPA, December 2006.




                                                   41

    project counties in the 10 Health VIII provinces and was more pronounced in counties
    undertaking MCH interventions and in DFID comprehensive pilots.
· The proportion of infant deaths occurring at home fell while those occurring in hospital rose.
    Fewer children died from TB or diarrhea and a higher proportion of deaths were due to
    congenital abnormalities. This indicates that the improved health services have reduced infant
    deaths from preventable and treatable causes.
· Reports from health facilities suggest that chronic diseases associated with ageing account
    for an increasing share of the workload of township health facilities.

2.2 Achievement of project objectives. The project established a number of targets for counties
to achieve. Annex 1 of the ICR presents data on the key outcomes. Key points include:

· All Part A counties prepared county health resource plans (CHRPs) and a very high
    proportion implemented their plans for upgrading and equipping township health facilities
    fully. All counties and 85 percent of townships also established a project health management
    information system.
· There were significant increases in bed utilization in township health centers (THCs) and
    Central Township Health Centers (CTHCs). This reflected both the rationalization of
    infrastructure and increases in utilization.
· There was little change in the number of outpatient visits per health worker at these facilities.
· Several indicators demonstrate widespread implementation of measures for improving the
    quality of medical care such as the establishment of referral linkages between township and
    county, the use of clinical norms and essential drug lists and the implementation of infection
    control measures and X-ray protection in township facilities.
· The performance of high priority public health services including maternal health care,
    immunization and treatment of tuberculosis improved significantly.
· There was a large increase in the number of people enrolled in a CMS scheme, associated
    with a major government policy change in 2003, and a substantial number of very poor
    people receiving benefits from a project MFA scheme.

2.3 Utilization of health services. The household surveys demonstrate a substantial increase in
the utilization of health services over the project's life:

· The proportion of people reporting a visit to a doctor during a two-week period rose from
    11.8 to 21.9 percent and those reporting a hospitalization over the past year rose from 2.1 to
    3.6 percent. During this period the proportion of people over 65 years rose from 3.4 to 6.5
    percent. Project county annual hospitalization rates ranged above 4 percent to below 3
    percent. The average length of stay decreased from 15.5 to 11.5 days, while the percentage of
    admissions that included a surgical operation rose from 23.2 to 30.2 percent.
· The number of people denied access to necessary medical care declined between 1998 and
    2006. The proportion of people reporting they were advised to enter hospital but did not do so,
    fell from 60.4 to 28.1 percent. This compares to 38.3 percent in the non-project counties
    included in the end-of project survey. The proportion of people declining hospitalization who
    said it was because of cost fell from 46.4 to 22.1 percent. In the non-project counties, 32.7
    percent of those who declined hospital care mentioned cost.




                                                  42

· The fall in the proportion not receiving hospital care was consistent for all income groups.
    The quintile with the lowest income experienced a fall from 66.6 to 36.2 percent compared
    with a fall from 52.6 to 21.1 percent for the richest quintile. Poorer households still face
    substantial financial problems when a family member falls seriously ill.
· The household surveys found that households allocate a substantial proportion of their
    expenditure to health (18.3% for the poorest and 13.2 for the richest quintile ­ 19.9% and
    8.8% respectively in 1998.. The proportion rose for all income groups, except the poorest,
    over the project's life. The average figures mask the very great problems households face
    when a family member needs hospital care.
· Public health services were strengthened particularly maternal and child health, childhood
    immunization and tuberculosis.
· Improvement in maternity services resulted in a large reduction in maternal mortality in
    project counties.
· The project also introduced affordable programs of cataract management for thousands of
    older farmers, transforming them from dependency on their family.
· The project's contribution to hypertension detection and management has oriented the
    community and rural health providers to the importance of lifestyle and dietary measures
    necessary for reducing the risks of stroke and other cardiovascular complications of otherwise
    symptom less hypertension.

2.4 Efficiency.     The project employed a number of strategies to improve the efficiency of the
use of health care resources. The first was the formulation and implementation of county health
resource plans that led to a rationalization of township health facilities and the closure of some
beds. At the same time, the proportion of staff in project counties with health care training at
junior college or above rose from 11 to 23 percent and the proportion of trained people allocated
to township level rose from 21 to 32 percent. This represents a major upgrading of the skills mix
at these facilities.

There was also a significant rise in bed occupancy during the life of the project (e.g.29.6% to
39.8% for THC in Part A counties). This compares favourably to very low occupancy rates in the
non-project counties which increased marginally from 32% to 35.6%. There was a substantial
increase in the annual number of discharges per technical worker, but no increase in the daily
outpatient visits per technical worker.

3. IMPROVEMENTS IN SERVICE PROVISION

At the commencement of the project, the physical status of the THCs and CTHs and their
equipment were run down, many with old and unsafe buildings and inadequate, often broken,
equipment. Facilities lacked functionality and provided little in the way of comfort, privacy or
safety for patients or staff. There were also staffing problems. Most staff members had limited
health professional training or qualifications. Patient throughput numbers were uniformly low as
was on-the-job experience. At that time, these institutions were the responsibility of the township
governments. Those bodies had neither the financial or technical resources to support their
maintenance. All health centers were allocated staff by the personnel administration bureau at
township or county level with the hospital director having, at best, limited influence in their
selection or their effective supervision.


                                                 43

With small patient numbers and low government subsidies, these institutions were frequently
unable to pay wages and meet their obligation to pay retired staffs' pensions, let alone refurbish
premises, acquire modern basic equipment or support continuing professional education for
clinical and managerial staff. Their focus was on revenue raising, although the community
considered that the range, quality and acceptability of services was poor. Managers were usually
appointed for reasons of seniority rather than managerial capacity and few had the skills or access
to resources needed to overcome the problems their institution faced.

Most township hospitals maintained a "service centre" attitude and waited for patients to present
rather than provide outreach services to expand their potential clientele. County hospitals
recognized the poor standards available at the township level but had few incentives to provide
the technical support needed to overcome these problems. The project's supply side interventions
targeted this range of problems and made good progress.

This section reports details on the scale of facilities improvement, human resource achievements,
health services improvement, improvement in services delivery and service quality and
performance improvement in town ship health centers (6 pages. Some key data reported in Annex
2 of ICR)

4. ACCESS TO MEDICAL CARE

One of the main objectives of the project was to increase access to health services. It employed a
combination of strategies to achieve this goal: strengthening the rural health system to improve
quality and control unnecessary costs; subsidizing certain cost-effective health services for all;
supporting the creation of a medical financial assistance scheme for the very poor; and supporting
the creation of risk-sharing mechanisms to protect people against the high cost of major illness.

4.1 Physical access to services. There was little change in physical access to basic health
facilities. The proportion of people living within 2 kilometers of a village clinic fell slightly from
93.1 to 87.4 percent between 1997 and 2006 in Part A counties, and the average travel time rose
slightly from 8.4 to 8.9 minutes. The proportion of people living less than 6 kilometers from a
township health centre fell from 84.2 to 77.2 percent. Another sign of the rationalization of
health facilities is the change in pattern of use. By the end of the project more people used village
clinics and fewer used private clinics and higher-level facilities (In 1997 58% were treated at a
village clinic; in 2006 61% largely at the expense of private providers). There were substantial
improvements during the life of the project in the proportion of THCs that have ambulances,
provide 24-hour emergency services and can handle a surgical delivery.

4.2 Subsidies for treatment of high priority diseases. The project subsidized the treatment of a
number of common health problems to reduce financial barriers to access. The project spent
167.7 million RMB on these subsidies. A total of 92,816 pregnant women received benefits,
including 9,912 who were MFA beneficiaries. The project subsidized 11,364 cataract operations
including 9,025 lens replacements. It also supported experiments with measures to ensure that
subsidies are used effectively. These include the design of contracts between government and
service providers and the use of vouchers for subsidised care.



                                                   44

4.3 Medical financial assistance (MFA) for the very poor. All project counties established
schemes to provide medical financial assistance for the very poor. The schemes differed between
Part A and Part B counties. Part A counties financed MFA with government counterpart funds.
Every township that upgraded a health facility had to establish a scheme, which covered up to 5
percent of the population. Part B counties financed MFA from World Bank credit. Every project
township established a scheme that covered 20 percent of the population. All schemes provided
free immunization and basic maternal and child health services and reimbursed part of the cost of
inpatient treatment. This was the first large scale experiment in China with a health safety net for
the very poor. The project invested a lot of effort to make the scheme work well.

Counties used open and transparent mechanisms to select beneficiaries through a combination of
village meetings and review by government officials. A number of studies found that the great
majority of beneficiaries were poor and that a majority of the population believed the process was
fair.  Counties created mechanisms to control unnecessary costs of medical care. They signed
contracts with designated institutions, monitored their charges and imposed fines for
unreasonable behavior. Many people benefited from MFA. The coverage of the population in Part
A counties rose gradually to 4.9 percent by 2005. Between 2002 and 2005, 87,648 people
received an average of 227 RMB per hospital admission, accounting for 39 percent of their total
costs. Beneficiaries had to pay the balance, themselves. This was a heavy financial burden for
very poor people and limited the benefits from MFA. In Part B counties, MFA reimbursed a
portion of hospital costs for 36,723 admissions, financed immunization for 71,479 children and
anti-natal care for 37,346 pregnant women. Between 2002 and 2005, MFA in Part B counties
reimbursed 53 percent of the cost of hospital care.

Five counties that received additional funding from H8SP tested a more comprehensive benefit
package. They extended coverage to 8-10 percent of the population, raised reimbursement for
hospital care substantially and subsidized outpatient care for children with pneumonia or diarrhea.
Surveys of beneficiaries found that they valued these outpatient benefits, which enabled them to
gain access to health care when problems began. In 2003 a social assessment in pilot counties
found that high costs of travel were a major barrier to access to care for people in remote villages.
In response, Qianjiang District in Chongqing Municipality organized regular visits of doctors to
remote villages and provided transport allowances for people requiring inpatient care, who live
more than 5 kilometers from a township facility. This provides useful experience to policy-
makers, as they design the national MFA scheme.

4.4 Cooperative Medical System (CMS). The 1997 government health policy statement
recognized the potential role of CMS in rural health finance. However, the central government
provided no funding for CMS and it did not provide clear guidelines for lower levels of
government until 2003, when it announced a new policy in favor of the rapid expansion of NCMS.
Project support for CMS differed greatly before and after the 2003 policy announcement.

During the preparation of Health VIII the project drew on lessons from experience with
traditional CMS schemes to develop principles for the design of project schemes. Project counties
were encouraged to establish schemes, and 991 townships were eventually involved. By 2000
these schemes were having great difficulty in raising funds in the face of national policies for


                                                 45

reducing the burden of charges on peasant households and reforming the tax system. It was
decided that counties should not be pressed to meet unrealistic targets. Instead the project
concentrated on a few studies of aspects of CMS design and management, particularly relevant to
poor counties. It also supports a small number of experiments with CMS schemes in DFID-
funded pilot counties, where they received subsidies of up to 10 RMB per person from grant
funds. After the announcement of the new government policy in 2003, the remaining project
supported schemes were transformed into NCMS. A number of project counties applied to host
pilot schemes and a number were selected. In 2006, 37 counties in Part A and 13 in Part B had
established NCMS.

The implementation of CMS, especially in DFID-supported pilots, enabled the project to develop
management guidelines for a number of aspects of scheme operation such as democratic
supervision, fund raising, payment methods, supervision of participating health facilities,
mobilization of the population, auditing control of costs, and so forth.

5. DEVELOPMENT OF INSTITUTIONS

5.1 The project's contribution to health sector management capacity and to the
development of policy.        From preparation in 1996 to its conclusion in 2007, the policy
framework for rural health in China went through much change. The project both contributed to
this development and benefited from its introduction. In 1996, it was widely recognized that rural
health services were in a parlous state. Government attention and support had dissipated and there
were increasing instances of basic public health and curative services failing or becoming
bankrupt. In 1997, Central government introduced major new policy directions. These strongly
supported and influenced the reform strategies being proposed for the project and made Health
VIII an important platform for testing and implementing the government's reforms.

In this environment, the project gave particular emphasis to the active involvement of
governmental officials at township, county and provincial levels in understanding the project's
activities in relation to announced policy and ensured their active involvement and commitment.
It also provided information and extensive training for governmental leaders at the county level
and required the development and maintenance of inter-sectoral leading groups to ensure whole
of government involvement and commitment to the project's multifaceted reform program.

By 2001 the policy focus of government had turned to people's livelihood and in 2002 a new
policy on rural health was promulgated by Central government and included declarations on the
organization of rural health services, allocating responsibility for township and village services to
counties; further reform of personnel and management practices in rural health services;
strengthening of public health services; the introduction of the government subsidized New CMS;
and introduction of government funded MFA program for the poor.

County health resource planning and coordination by government. Government's 1997 policy
called for regional health planning. For most administrations, this presented difficulties because
of legacies of the centrally planned economy. In Health VIII, agreement was reached that county
health resource plans would focus on the township level and below avoiding many of the
ownership issues at higher levels.         While complex organizational issues were avoided,


                                                 46

development and implementation of plans was challenging for governments of very poor counties
where health facilities were dysfunctional and personnel capacity often weak. The project
provided guidelines, training and technical support from both the central and provincial level. To
oversee and direct the development of CHRP, county governments were required to establish a
health leading group, led by the county governor or vice governor with representatives of key
government bureau. CHRP led governments to more fully understand the health needs of their
rural communities and the capacity of the established rural health system. Each year, the county
government was required to evaluate progress in implementation and update its project plan and
its CHRP as appropriate. Ultimately, more than 70 percent of counties were able to meet this
requirement. The revised plans required governmental approval and commitment prior to
submission. In 2004, the Central government introduced a further rural health facility
improvement programme based on funding by public debt under treasury bonds. A number of
project provinces determined that expenditure of a further rural health facility improvement
program established in 2004 would follow the same methodology developed under Health VIII
and be based on carefully developed CHRP.

Government financial input to rural health. Prior to the project there was evidence of declining
investment in rural health services by government. This was both in absolute terms and as a
proportion of government expenditure and was particularly pronounced in poor counties. Over
the period of the project, project counties have increased their total investment in health services
from 404.64 million RMB in 1998 to 17.7754 billion RMB in 2006 ­ more than a fourfold
increase. There was initially a continuation of the decrease in the proportion of government funds
allocated to health but, by 2001, the situation had changed with around 6 percent of the
government budget allocated to the sector. Within this framework, progressively higher
proportions of the income of rural health facilities and public health services came from
government, rising from 28.3 percent in 1998 to 37.7 percent in 2006. There was a major upturn
in government expenditure on health services from 2005 when government subsidies for New
CMS and MA became available.

Improved planning and implementation capacity.         Implementation of CHRPs developed by
project counties required administrative skill and political will. Overall, 148 health centres were
closed, 218 institutions had their role redefined, 2000 beds were closed, and over 1,000
unqualified technical workers were laid off. Strict adherence to construction of civil works
standards and procedures were demanded by the project. Complex training plans were developed
and programmed for staff. New ways of allocating financial resources were devised and
implemented. After the mid term, counties took over responsibility for township level services
and continued the reform process. In all of these activities, project county health directors report
that CHRP provided both the blueprint for action and the political support necessary for
implementation.

Improved efficiency of township health centre. Services reorganization under CHRP and its
reforming construction programme, improved staffing skills, provided better facilities and
equipment, and introduced new approaches to services delivery that have positively impacted on
utilization. Health centre bed occupancy has risen from 30 percent in 1998 to 42 percent in 2006.
Modest rises in utilization have been achieved in outpatient and emergency services, more




                                                 47

particularly in DFID pilot counties where improvements have been made to the internal personnel
deployment systems.

Improved law enforcement and supervision; and information collection and analysis. The project
provided a basis and plan for services improvement as well as practical aids such as training of
managers and supervisors as well as vehicles for them to be able to reach out into the field to
enforce regulations and to provide supportive supervision to health providers. The project also
brought requirements for levels of reporting and accountability not previously established in
project counties. Project resources were allocated to providing the computer hardware and
systems for gathering required data, and the training and support necessary for it to be routinely
and accurately gathered and analyzed.

5.2 Innovation, experimentation and strengthened implementation: the contributions of the
DFID Health 8 Support Project (H8SP) and other donors. Health VIII and H8SP were fully
integrated. Grant funds provided by H8SP enabled much higher levels of support to be provided
for implementation of the project and supported the introduction of new ways of analyzing
problems and experimentation with implementing change under the project.

Pilot counties. H8SP provided intensive implementation support in pilot counties. Initially these
were located in two provinces (Gansu and Chongqing) and later were extended to all provinces.
In most instances, pilot counties made excellent use of their access to additional support and
carried out important experiments in extending the depth and scope of reform activities. These
included personnel reform with new processes introduced for the competitive selection on merit
of health centre managers and clinical staff; innovative job descriptions and appropriate incentive
based remuneration packages based on objective performance evaluation. Other support
innovations included coordinated rural health management at the county level; the introduction of
new systems of funding services, including a shift to county health bureau paying for contracted
outputs rather than funding inputs. These pilot county activities and their achievements have been
widely shared in the project and beyond and are playing a part in influencing the future direction
of rural health services reform.

Business planning. The Japanese Social Development Fund supported management development
through business planning in Part B of the project prior to the full integration of the projects.

Innovation fund. H8SP allocated resources to enable counties to develop new ways of delivering
services or manage institutions. This provided grassroots institutions with the opportunity to test
ideas and encouraged them to make innovative decisions relevant to the market economy rather
than wait to be told what to do and how to do it. Two rounds of funding were offered and a total
of 48 projects were approved after careful assessment. Topics included health service system
reform; optimizing health resource allocation; improvement in the health service accessibility for
impoverished people; and models for improved services delivery in remote areas. Many projects
produced good results that were practical and could be adopted elsewhere. Examples were:
township hospitals improving the accessibility and security of health services through setting up
small-sized maternity hospitals in remote mountainous areas, and creating mobile tent hospitals
for nomadic communities in pasturing areas; popularizing safe medication knowledge;
establishing demonstration families for health promotion, setting up chronic disease clubs,


                                                48

organizing literary and artistic health information publicity teams; and trialing novel rural
management systems and operation mechanisms of various forms. All these projects
demonstrated innovation and practicality.

Operations research. H8SP provided funds for substantial operations research activities to be
carried out by universities and research centers on topics relevant to the project and the further
development of policy. Projects fell into three areas: New CMS, MA and rural health services
development. Ultimately 25 projects were deemed acceptable and their findings have been
published in books and electronically. The results have been taken up by Health VIII counties and
in policy development at the national level.

Technical support and the impact of National and Provincial Expert Panels. H8SP supported
high levels of provision of technical assistance and advice to project counties. This took several
forms. The major part was the development and maintenance at the national level of highly
qualified expertise in each of the components the project. This group was known as the National
Expert Panel (NEP). Members were drawn from academia and senior management posts and
brought with them extensive knowledge and experience in their relevant fields. The
responsibilities of NEP members were substantial and included development of annual plans,
providing direct technical assistance at the provincial and county level, supervision of project
implementation; working with international consultants; coordinating implementation of their
component; and ensuring appropriate integration of project activities. Membership of the NEP
remained essentially stable throughout the project.

Each provincial project office was also provided with resources by H8SP to develop its own
Provincial Expert Team (PEP). The members of PEPs had similar backgrounds to NEP members
and took responsibilities at the provincial level for technical advice, support and supervision. All
counties were encouraged to develop their own expert teams to advise and support
implementation activities.

The continuous availability and commitment of high level expertise made a substantial
contribution to the achievements of the project.

Resource Centre.     DFID funds also provided access to international expertise through an
independent Resource Centre. That agency provided international consultants on request from
national project managers and arranged international study tours that were supported by H8SP.

5.3 Experiences and lessons from project experience. Health VIII provided a large-scale test
of strategies for improving health system performance in poor and less developed areas. It was
implemented while government health policies were evolving and when many policy-related
constraints could not be overcome. The efforts of the 97 county governments with support from
provincial and national levels provided many lessons for implementing change upon which
policy-makers can draw to ensure that their strategies are practical. Some of the most important
ones are summarized below:

· Governments should continue to increase funding of rural health services. One reason for the
    project's success was that funding of rural health services rose considerably in the project


                                                 49

    counties. Between 1998 and 2005 health expenditure by Part A counties averaged 47.5
    million RMB per year, of which 31.8 million was from government and 15.7 million from the
    project. Government needs to maintain and increase this level of expenditure. However, it can
    draw on the lessons of the project to ensure that funds are used well. It should allocate
    resources on the basis of a systematic assessment of needs and definition of priorities. It
    should take an integrated approach to health system development.
· System innovation. The project demonstrated that poor counties can implement major health
    system changes but that they require a lot of technical support. It illustrated the degree to
    which local health system leaders are capable of identifying innovative approaches for
    dealing with their particular circumstances. Local initiatives have only a limited impact in the
    absence of a supportive policy environment.
· The importance of village health services. The project demonstrated the great importance of
    village health services to the majority of peasants. Despite this, village health workers receive
    very little financial support from government. This is a serious problem. Much more effort
    and investment is needed to improve village clinics, train village health workers and improve
    rural health system management.
· Management, monitoring and evaluation. The project emphasized the need for systems that
    support county-level implementation, monitor progress and adjust implementation to
    overcome problems that emerge. The project established a team of information experts to
    collect and analyze data and provide summary reports to implementers. The ability to respond
    flexibly was an important element in the project's success. It is suggested that government
    appoint a special institution or particular staff to monitor and oversee the implementation of
    all major health system change initiatives.
· Communication between departments. The project was led by government and implemented
    by health departments. One important feature was its comprehensive nature, which meant that
    successful implementation required coordination between departments. Health departments
    also need to strengthen their capacity to manage health system change and to communicate
    effectively across the government system.
· Improving the health security system. One major long-term policy objective is to establish an
    integrated system for ensuring access to appropriate health care and reducing the financial
    burden of major illness. The NCMS schemes have made a start in sharing the burden of the
    cost of medical care, but much more needs to be done to establish a fully developed social
    protection system. As counties design their future health systems they should take into
    account the need for public health services, basic medical care and treatment for serious
    illness. They also need to recognize the special needs of the poor. MFA provides a minimal
    safety net for the very poorest. However, it provides limited protection against the cost of
    chronic illness and the impact of very costly medical care on slightly better off households.
    An integrated health security system will eventually be needed to protect poor people against
    these problems.

5.4 Project sustainability. This section explores the degree to which project gains are likely to
be sustained. It asks whether project counties will be able to sustain the improvements they have
made. It also asks whether the lessons learned are likely to have a long-term influence on the
development of China's rural health system. Recent changes in the government's development
strategy that give priority to the creation of a harmonious society and the construction of a new




                                                 50

socialist countryside have created a favorable context for the development of rural health services.
However, there are still many challenges. The following points are made:

· Economic sustainability. Government spending on health care has increased greatly in the
    project counties. It largely takes the form of funds earmarked for investment in health
    facilities and for NCMS and MFA. This increase far exceeds the annual expenditure from
    World Bank credit and other grants. The project counties should not find it difficult to replace
    project funding. However, they need to ensure that additional funds are used well drawing on
    project experience.
· This involves the use of facility planning to ensure that investments are consistent with the
    development of an efficient health system. It also involves planning the allocation of public
    funds to ensure that the cost of public health services, maintenance of buildings and
    equipment, staff training, supervision and provision of technical support for health system
    change is covered. This is particularly important because a large proportion of government
    health funding is earmarked for NCMS and MFA. One special problem is the need to repay
    the World Bank credit. If THCs have to repay a substantial share of the loan, they may need
    to focus on revenue generation at the expense of the provision of public services. This
    demonstrates why all levels of government need to arrange special funds to repay the loans.
· Sustainability of supply-side achievements The project financed substantial investments in
    health facilities and equipment and it is important that project counties make adequate
    maintenance arrangements. In addition, all Part A counties produced health resource plans for
    rationalizing the infrastructure. They need to revise and update their plans regularly to take
    into account rapid social and economic development. This is unlikely to happen unless the
    central government states that future funding of investments must be on the basis of up-to-
    date plans. The project invested a lot of effort in all aspects of the formulation and
    management of a building upgrading program and it has published guidelines. Several project
    provinces are using procedures developed for Health VIII to implement government-funded
    investment programs. One of the major project strategies for improving health system
    performance was to combine the development of guidelines and protocols with training and
    regular supervision. A number of project counties have decided to use this approach after the
    project's end. It is important to note several limitations of this approach. As long as health
    facilities continue to employ under-qualified staff, the performance of facilities will be
    constrained. Also, it is important to modify the financial incentives for facilities to encourage
    high levels of use of pharmaceuticals and diagnostic tests.
· Sustainability of public health services. The project has made substantial gains in improving
    the coverage of priority interventions. Project counties face a number of challenges in
    sustaining these gains. In particular, they need to identify sources of finance to replace project
    funds and establish management systems to ensure these funds are used well.
· Sustainability of MFA. The major contribution of the project MFA was to develop and test
    procedures to make a large-scale intervention work well. The procedures were improved
    through continuous monitoring and revision. As the project was being implemented, the
    views of the public, government and policy analysts about disease-related poverty changed
    and there was an increasing interest in doing something about this problem. The project
    demonstrated a way to do this quite quickly. This demonstration is likely to have influenced
    policy discussions.




                                                 51

  In 2003 the Government issued a document entitled Suggestions by Ministries of Civil Affairs,
  Health and Finance on the Implementation of Rural Medical Assistance, which advocated the
  rapid spread of MA schemes, integrated with NCMS. It allocated special funds to support
  rural medical assistance. The project counties gradually integrated their schemes into the new
  one organized by local departments of civil affairs. The project has provided support to the
  Ministry of Civil affairs in developing ways to help local governments establish good quality
  MFA schemes. The experience of Health VIII has been very useful in developing strategies
  for avoiding potential problems. Experts from Health VIII are helping the Ministry of Civil
  Affairs produce the Guide for Implementation of MFA in China's Rural Areas, which will be
 widely disseminated.
· Sustainability of CMS. In 2002 and 2003 the government issued several important policy
 statements strongly supporting the establishment of county CMS schemes aimed at reducing
 the risk to households of becoming impoverished as a result of a major illness. A number of
 counties established pilot schemes in which households, central government and other levels
 of government each contributed 10 RMB. Government contributions have been increased in
 subsequent years. As NCMS spreads, it will provide substantial transfers of funds to all
 project counties. This will play an important role in reducing financial barriers to access to
 care, including in the facilities the project upgraded. This will go a long way towards
 ensuring that project gains are sustained. Equally important is the potential that NCMS
 provides for establishing management and supervision agencies capable of monitoring the
 performance of health facilities and acting to correct problems. The success of this
 development will depend on continued emphasis on the need for an integrated approach to
 health system development and investment of efforts to strengthen the management capacity
 of NCMS and the ability of supervisory committees to play and effective role.




                                             52

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

United Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID) was a major
partner in the Project ­ although it was not recognized legally as part of the Bank's
Project it was functionally a part of it and the two projects were jointly supervised by a
team lead by the Bank. These comments are derived from ICR team meetings held with
the DFID office in Beijing and from the independent evaluation report (see edited
executive summary below). The H8SP was DFID's first in China's health sector and was
a quick win for DFID to enter health in China and working in an informal partnership
with the Bank significantly lowered transaction costs for GOC. The Project enabled
DFID to learn about practical constraints to implementing pro-poor reforms in less
developed countries and to participate in the development of a highly effective process
for large scale reform implementation. DFID fully accepted the Project objectives and
the structure of the Project and accepted the strategic leadership the Bank had shown in
its original formulation which stood the test of time. The Bank Project was a sound
platform to engage with GOC at many levels ­ on policy and reform strategy in
partnership with the Bank. Traditionally GOC has left implementation entirely to local
governments ­ this Project actively supported national agencies, particularly FLO and the
NEP, to support counties and provinces in implementation including with additional
support to the Project from H8SP.

The partnership with the Bank in this process was effective with considerable regular
consultation through local Bank and DFID offices in Beijing and through joint missions.
There were occasional administrative problems, which arose in part because of different
operational cultures which added to transaction costs and occasional difference about best
options on specific issues. However as this was a joint "learning-by-doing" Project with
leadership from GOC these issues were always resolved and there was no disagreement
about the strategic objectives of the project. The Bank was particularly concerned about
apparent slow implementation in the early period after the mid-term review but the SARS
epidemic, threat of Avian Flu and the investments in professional staff capacity,
including the NEP, led to significantly improved implementation process. Government,
particularly FLO, also valued the DFID contribution because: (i) it was a grant which
also meant some GOC internal constraints on use of Credit funds allowed more focus on
"software" expenses to improve qualitative impacts of institutional development; (ii) the
general flexibility of H8SP to underwrite agreed expenditures in the CHRPs and annual
plans and (iii) these factor enabled H8SP to assist in altering internal Project incentives to
encourage improved provider and user behavior. The intensive county pilots also added a
major dimension to the "learning by doing" aspects of the original Project design and
made a significant contribution to project outcomes.

Edited Executive summary of: "Health VIII (China Basic Health Services/Health
VIII Support Project) External Evaluation Final Report, June 2007, financed and
published by DFID.

The China Basic Health Services Project (Health VIII) began in 1998 with the aim of improving
health status in 97 poor rural counties located in 10 provinces through strengthening the health
system and assisting the development of affordable and sustainable services and funding


                                               53

arrangements. In 1999, DFID began supporting the Health VIII Support Project (HVIIISP) with
the goal of increasing capacity of Health VIII (HVIII) implementation to improve access to
effective, good quality health services for poor and vulnerable people. HVIII/HVIIISP closed in
June 2007 after almost 10 years of operations. This report presents the key findings of an external
evaluation of the report.

The External Evaluation was guided by a simplified illustration of the project logic model and
selected entry points. Maternal and infant mortality were selected as key outcome areas for
investigation as they represent major health problems in the project counties and are both key
areas of work within the project and a national health priority. Similarly, access by poor and
vulnerable groups has been a particular concern of HVIII/HVIIISP and is likely to be influenced
by both demand and supply side interventions. The project addressed the development of county
health system capacity through measures that include influencing planning and resource
allocation, enhancing technical expertise, strengthening linkages between levels of services and
supporting management reforms.

1. Methodology.          The External Evaluation used multiple data sources and research methods.
Project documentation and related literature (including financial reports and county
implementation plans) informed and guided the investigation. Selective use was made of primary
data (both quantitative and qualitative) to confirm and validate project reports as well as to
produce in-depth information from a few selected counties, which is unavailable from other data
sources. In addition to primary data, the External Evaluation undertook secondary data analyses
of routinely collected statistics. Extensive data editing and quality control measures were taken to
improve these data sets. Selective use of results from the End of Project survey were also
incorporated into the report.

2. Findings

2.1. Institutional Capacity

Health VIII was... a well designed project that focused on capacity building. It was like "cooking rice
porridge with a lukewarm fire" and prepared a basis for other projects like Reducing Mortality and
Eliminating Tetanus that aimed at fast results within a short period of time... (County Project Office)


2.1.1. County Health Resources Plans (CHRP).                  The CHRPs were an effective innovation
introduced by HVIII/HVIIISP. CHRPs were based on health needs analysis and were realistic and
achievable. There appeared to have been adequate involvement of county level departments from
other sectors. Implementation of plans showed redistribution of resources (both staff and hospital
beds). In comparison, the non-project county CHRP showed no evidence of HNA, no reallocation
of resources and no poverty focus

2.1.2. Quality standards

Health VIII Project gives us new thinking in improving... grassroots medical work. Taking Obstetrics and
Gynecology as a starting point, all township and county health centers provide free antenatal and post-
natal visits to pregnant and lying-in women, and work with village healthcare workers to know more about
the pregnancy of village women. (THC)


There was a general perception that clinical quality had significantly improved, particularly in
priority diseases, as a result of training, supervision and the introduction of clinical protocols.



                                                    54

There was also evidence of an increased customer focus with regard to privacy and dignity. From
project documentation and a sampling of records, there was a demonstrable improvement in drug
prescribing. However, there were still too many antibiotics and hormones in use, while dose and
duration of medication did not always conform to evidence-based best practice.

2.1.3. Management capacity. Managerial capacity was widely identified as improved, although
there was no hard evidence of increased competence. HVIII/HVIIISP had supported national
policy on open competition and project counties could demonstrate a rigorous and transparent
recruitment process. Improved infrastructure, leading to greater potential for income generation,
has also helped attract candidates to THC posts in project counties. Examination of objectives set
under performance management (obligation contracts) showed that those set in project counties
were more specific than those in non-project counties.

2.1.4. Management information. There was evidence of increased access to computer hardware
and improved input skills, but the resultant information showed inconsistencies. There was no
indication of data audits, which would have improved quality. Also, managers and clinicians did
not demonstrate an `information culture' that valued this data as part of decision making.

2.1.5. Capacity of county level project officers and experts

The technical support was good. They conduct monitoring four or five times a year. Experts from
provincial, prefecture and country level all have come. There was even an annual evaluation and
competition. They review medical records, sometimes visit the clinic or patients. It is helpful. (THC)


HVIII/HVIIISP's success was partially attributable to strong, target-driven project management.
However, this resulted in quite significant transaction costs. Project staff that have been trained
by the project are a valuable resource for the future, but there were no identifiable plans for future
utilization of this cohort of staff.

2.1.6. National Expert Panel and Provincial Expert Panel The cohort of experts built through
HVIII/HVIIISP is an extremely valuable resource. Selection was not entirely transparent and,
inevitably, many experts were older so they would not be available indefinitely. Some younger
experts were developed successfully. Access to international expertise through study tours and
individual international experts has been appropriate. Supervision had been implemented
successfully and could be demonstrated to be extremely effective.

2.1.7. Impact on international policy making There is evidence that MFA acted as a pilot for
MA and the expertise built up in the NEP contributed to MA and NCMS. Operational research
had the potential to inform national policy but there is no evidence of this, partly due to the
quality and timing of research studies. However, the OR capacity development was itself valuable,
in that it built capacity for future research and evaluation.

2.2. Access

2.2.1. Physical access and strengthening of the county network. CHRP and the rationalization
of facilities paved the way for a stronger three-tier county health system. Project support for
infrastructure and equipment upgrading has increased the availability of essential services at
township level. Resource allocation decisions on project infrastructure were strongly influenced
by the anticipated potential for generating revenues and the capacity of townships to repay loans
(with the consequence of excluding some of the poorest and remotest townships in some areas).
Political economy influences on village doctors and township providers have produced a mixed


                                                    55

performance on integration of these two health cadres and, in some areas, resulted in diminishing
incentives for village doctors.

Despite investments in strengthening the county network, results from the EOP survey and
project monitoring data show that patient use has graduated up the health structure with an
increasing demand for county and CTH services. This trend appears to be driven by demand for
better quality and in the absence of project investments would most likely have been stronger.

2.2.2. Affordability. Results from the baseline and EOP surveys show a general increase in the
proportion of APC income spent on health care. The level of health care spending on one-time
hospitalization (including direct and opportunity costs) has declined substantially during the
project period from 124% of non-subsistence annual household income to 70%. However, the
absolute level of out-of-pocket expenses for hospitalization remains high and for many rural
people it is catastrophic.

Demand for hospitalization increased over the project period. In 2006, the gap in use of
hospitalized care between better-off and poorer income groups was less in project than non-
project areas.

Data shows a positive relationship between household income and institutional delivery rates
across income quintiles: the highest income groups have the highest hospital delivery rates. The
relationship between institutional delivery and poverty pivots geographically too, with the poorest
counties and townships tending towards lower hospital delivery rates. Against this backcloth, the
project has shown that higher financial subsidies for hospital delivery can help the poorest
increase their use of this service. These and other results are suggestive of how the
HVIII/HVIIISP reduced financial barriers and increased access to hospital care for the majority.

2.2.4. Community health financing.            MFA was an important initiative introduced by
HVIII/HVIIISP to reduce financial barriers for the most vulnerable. Although it made several
contributions to this goal, particularly at policy level, it was constrained by limited counterpart
financing. As a result, in many settings MFA only covered a small proportion of the absolute poor
and chronically ill in counties. At provincial level, beneficiary rates did not reach the targets 5%
and 20% (for part A and B respectively) before the introduction of MA. Low premiums prevailed
in HVIII areas, and province-wise the in-patient ratio for MFA beneficiaries remained lower than
for non-MFA beneficiaries.




                                                 56

2.3. Maternal and Child Health

2.3.1. Health outcomes and system performance. There have been substantial declines in
maternal mortality ratios (MMR) in HVIII/HVIIISP sites. In 1998, the MMR in part A counties
was 125.5 falling to 68.2 in 2005 (latest year for which data are available); in part B the ratio was
91.3 in 2002, declining to 84.6 in 2005. These impressive gains in fact mirror national trends for
rural areas.

Results from sub-group analysis of the national MMR surveillance suggest that HVIII/HVIIISP
may have accelerated, or otherwise contributed to, improvements in maternal health in China. For
example, the changes in MMR in HVIII/HVIIISP counties have been larger and more sustained
than the trends in national MMR for rural type III counties: between 1996 and 2004, MMR was
reduced by 42.4% in project counties compared to 13.5% in rural type III counties. Furthermore,
in contrast to national data on rural types I ­ IV, where progress seems to have stalled since 2001,
the declines in MMR in HVIII/HVIIISP sites restarted in 2005 at steeper rates than national
averages. This is suggestive of the project's effect on sustaining trends towards improving health
outcome.

The proportion of institutional deliveries to the number of births increased steadily in all of the
project counties, in both part A and B settings. In 2001/2002, there appears to have been a take-
off point for provincial level county results, coinciding with the change in national policy
discouraging home deliveries. By the end of HVIII/HVIIISP, most sites were reporting a majority
of births (66%) taking place in institutions. Some counties had dramatic gains, for example
Qinghai (5.7% in 1998 increased to 40.6% in 2005) and Ningxia (14.0% in 1998 increased to
44.5% in 2005), clearly indicating the project's contribution to accelerating progress towards this
national health goal.

2.3.2. Contributions to Health Outcomes and Improved Service Performance

Infrastructure

The project offered us ... machine(s) to rescue asphyxiated newborn, operation and delivery beds,
anaesthesia machines ... which benefited our hospital greatly and enabled us to enhance our medical
services. (County Hospital Director)


The substantial investments made by HVIII/HVIIISP to improve the health system infrastructure
were seen by hospital directors and physicians as directly contributing to improved quality of
MCH services and increasing utilization by target populations. Both assertions can be considered
highly plausible, particularly since project investments in the technical skills of providers were
made in tandem with health facilities upgrades and purchasing equipment. On-site inspections
conducted by the External Evaluation confirmed the importance attached to the new equipment
by both OB/GYN specialists and Pediatricians.

Management: coordination with other programs & changes in regulatory environment

The obstetrics and gynecology department is now a key department of our centre and drives the
development of other departments. I attribute this development to the (Health VIII). It popularizes medical
care and improves our service standard. (THC)




                                                    57

HVIII/HVIIISP was one of several interventions working towards improving the management of
MCH services during the past 10 years. In general, county health offices have been very skilful in
coordinating resources from this project with other initiatives to improve health service coverage
and quality. Consequently, it is impossible to attribute impact to any single intervention on this
(and other) outcomes. However, evidence gathered by the External Evaluation is clear that any
impact made by newer projects (on reducing financial barriers to MCH services among the poor
as well as other maternal health interventions) has benefited from ground-work undertaken by
HVIII/HVIIISP.

In addition to national level projects there have been many programmatic and service delivery
innovations introduced by provinces and counties throughout HVIII/HVIIISP sites. While many
of these improvements were not the direct result of HVIII/HVIIISP, there is consistent and
credible evidence of strong coordination and multiple/positive synergistic effects between the
project and non-project interventions. Investments made by HVIII/HVIIISP either facilitated the
smooth implementation of these other initiatives or amplified their impact on MCH services and
health outcomes.

Even without the Health VIII Project women and children health care work will continue to develop but it
might be very slow. The Health VIII Project has given us a novel idea and great impetus. It has... laid a
sound platform for us. Compared to non-project towns, our medical provision capabilities and the public
capacity to use such services have improved dramatically. (Township Health Officer)


3. Cross-cutting conclusions and key recommendations.

3.1. Supervision. The External Evaluation concludes that HVIII/HVIIISP's supervision system
has been a successful mechanism for improving quality of clinical services and building
management capacity. Particular note is drawn to the important role of PEPs, county and city
experts, and the success they achieved in creating a truly facilitative supervision system that
motivated health care workers. Although inspections were conducted, the site-visits appeared to
be most commonly done in the context of encouraging the attainment of goals set in the health
workers' obligation contracts.

Recommendation:        The supervision system created by the HVIII/HVIIISP should be replicated
nationally. A proactive communication strategy should be developed to disseminate the lessons
learnt from this experience.

3.2. Generation and use of information.             Although considerable attention was given to
improving the generation and use of information, HVIII/HVIIISP achievements in this area were
less substantial than others. Unfortunately the reporting of routinely collected health statistics
still suffers from problems with completeness and quality. The use of evidence (e.g. research
studies, best practices) to guide program operations was observed to be neither systematic nor
widespread, even as exceptions to this conclusion are acknowledged. Three key areas are flagged
for particular attention: Lack of an information culture, Information overload and gaps in the data
base, Data manipulation (`fudging')

Recommendation: The following types of actions can be taken that will enhance the creation of
an information culture within the rural health sector:
  · increase transparency of information, including sharing with community and the public
       through a variety of communication channels,




                                                  58

  · use the supportive supervision system to advance understanding of the need to report
      underperformance, errors and unexpected outcomes, and to build an organizational culture
      that encourages candid reports as a basis for future lesson learning,
  · more rigorous audit of routinely collected health statistics needs to be universally enforced
      to ensure quality and completeness.

3.3. Integration of project. The External Evaluation congratulates HVIII/HVIIISP on the
success it has achieved in integration of several types, including the following:
  · mixing funds and technical support from both HVIII and HVIIISP around a common
      design and implementation framework,
  · coordination with complementary projects (Ford, JSDF),
  · national policy and programs (Program to Reduce Maternal Mortality and Eliminate
      Neonatal Tetanus , National TB program, NCMS, MA),
  · coordination with other sectors at county level (through CHRP).

Recommendation: The success of HVIII/HVIIISP provides a model for working towards greater
sectoral and cross-sectoral harmonization. The External Evaluation strongly recommends that this
experience should be built upon. Further implementation will require additional management
strengthening at all levels of the health system to manage this process (managing complex
networks and funding streams).

3.4. Human Resource Development.           The External Evaluation commended HVIII/HVIIISP's
significant impact on improving health care provider's technical and managerial competence. The
project developed skills directly related to HNA and national program objectives and was
coherent with investments made in infrastructure, materials and equipment. Additionally,
HVIII/HVIIISP made good progress in advancing non-clinical competencies. For example, in
developing awareness on poverty and health as well as increasing recognition of the importance
of public health. However, human resource capacity remains a constraint to universal coverage
particularly in poorer and more remote rural areas.

Recommendation:            Future initiatives involving managerial and technical training and
development should be based on a pre-determined competence framework by function and level.
This ensures training and development is fit for purpose and supports evaluation. HVIII/HVIIISP
has identified avenues for stimulating increased recruitment and retention of staff in rural poor
and remote areas, for example infrastructure improvement, facilitative supervision, and other staff
incentives (financial/ training (bonded) /career development). These important advances should
be disseminated to encourage replication.

3.5. Equity.    HVIII/HVIIISP has been quite effective at demonstrating how greater equity in the
use of health care services can be achieved in poorer rural areas of China. This is a valuable
achievement gained through a number of interacting interventions including financial subsidies
for the poor, cost-control measures to keep prices affordable, community outreach services
targeting special health care needs (e.g. post-partum services), assistance with transportation for
emergencies, innovative service delivery approaches to reach remote communities, and health
education/promotion activities to develop awareness and stimulate behavior change.

Recommendation: Sustained attention is required to reducing equity gaps in both the utilization of
health care services and achievement of national health goals. The design of future program
should build upon HVIII/HVIIISP's experience in using multiple and interacting interventions,
including the use of different funding modalities.



                                                 59

Other Development Partners.

Ford Foundation. Ford Foundation supported reproductive health in 8 Project provinces ($0.5
million). It was an opportunity to work at both grass roots as well as at the national level within
the Project framework. The role of FLO as a very good match maker in coordinating this effort
was acknowledged. They believe the outcomes of the support was valuable in that it brought a
clear focus on gender issues, status of women and their participation in reproductive decision
making. One key outcome was the production of a reproductive health manual. While Ford
Foundation expressed some concern about it ability to follow the scaling up of the results, the
FLO, CST and NEP acknowledged the positive effect of this work on the Project's wider
reproductive health efforts including its impact of standard protocols now in place and the basis
for staff training.

Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).                  Canadian CIDA supported the
Project ($100,000) because it was fully consistent with its strategic focus on gender and health. A
principle focus of the support was for a study of the role of women in health, health planning,
including at the local level and how to involve women as a strategic stakeholder in health
provision. FLO and Ford Foundation executed the study. There was also support for training of
women and officials on rights of women. CIDA believes the report demonstrated the serious
problems rural women face gaining health care. FLO indicated this effort, and the Project more
generally helped increased the profile of women's needs in health delivery. CIDA also indicated
the Bank had the leadership and intellectual capacity to lead operations such as this Project and
that it provided a unique opportunity for CIDA to have a modest impact on policy development.

Other Partners.       The ICR team did not have the opportunity to discuss with the following
respective authorities ( a) China Foundation ($2.1 million) support of a pilot to test the feasibility
of including geothermal energy supply in hospitals in four provinces; (b) Global Environment
Facility support for the design and installation of passive solar hospital heating in very remote
areas of three poor counties; (c) ORBIS (RMB 0.4 million) for cataract treatment in Shanxi; and
(d) Japan Social Development Fund ($0.4 million) for management support of township hospitals
in the QHP. Respective project documentation, FLO (and relevant counties and provinces) and
the ICR acknowledge the positive contributions from each of these activities to Project objectives.




                                               60

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   a. World Bank (1998), Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit of SDR
       63.0 Million to the People's Republic of China for a Basic Services Project.
   b. Development Credit Agreement (Basic Health Services Project) between
       People's Republic of China and International Development Association (June
       12, 1998).
   c. Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of Health (China): "Project Implementation
       Plans" and World Bank Mission Comments on Such Plans (various years).
   d. The World Bank: "Supervision Aides Memoire" and "Back to Office Reports"
       1998-2007.
   e. World Bank, Project Status Reports, (1998-2007).
   f. Foreign loan Office, Ministry of Health, P. R. China (2007), Building Rural
       Health Systems: The Experience of China's Health VIII and health VIII Support
       Projects" (2007). (Summary of English Translation of Government Project
       Completion Report Edited by Gerald Bloom and Chris Scarf.
   g. Foreign Loan Office (2007) "Basic Health Services Project (Health VIII) and
       Health VIII Support Services Project Completion Report" (English translation).
   h. Department for International Development, "External Evaluation Final Report
       of Health VIII (China Basic Health Services/Health VIII Support Project", June
       2007.
   i. Chongqing Municipality (2007), "Completion Report of Chongqing, Chinese
       Basic Health Service Program" (English translation).
   j. Shaanxi Province (2007), "Final Report for Qinba Health project/Support
       Project of Shaanxi Province" (English translation).
   k. World Bank (1997), "Financing Health Care: Issues and Options for China" (in
       China 2020 series).
   l. World Bank (November 2007 draft), "Health Reform in China: Where Next?"




                                        61

62

