                                                                                                       96403
China: Basic Health Services 8 Project                                                             April 16, 2012




 Investing in Health Care for China’s Rural Poor


Overview
In the late 1990s, China, with support from the World Bank and other development partners,
undertook to improve basic health services and increase healthcare accessibility for an
estimated 47 million people living in poor rural areas through the Basic Health 8 Project (1998
to 2007). With improved prenatal care and increased hospital delivery, maternal and infant
mortality rates were nearly halved in project areas and health service utilization increased
considerably among the rural poor.



Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
Despite China’s impressive progress in raising
health standards in the 1960s and 1970s, a
health divide emerged in the 1980s between
poor rural areas and more prosperous and
urban regions. Infant mortality rates were three
times higher than in urban areas and maternal
mortality rates were twice as high.


The growing problems in rural healthcare
resulted in large part from a decline in
government support for public health programs,
the collapse of community financing of health
services, a top-down approach to health planning, and a
lack of coordination between various health system levels.
                                                                   More Results
These conditions led to inefficient and unbalanced capital
investments, wasteful health expenditures, and financial

                                                                   1,107
barriers that made health services inaccessible for the very
poor.

                                                                   township health centers were
Impoverished rural residents faced a health system that            built or renovated
offered no guarantee of services or financial assistance,
poorly trained and supervised staff, and facilities in bad
condition. “Fee for service” models encouraged unnecessary
prescriptions and procedures, and families were often
pushed into poverty as a result of health care-related debt.       124%
Centralized and provider-focused planning approaches               increase in hospital delivery
meant that health systems were unresponsive to local needs         rates in the project areas
                                                                   between 1998 to 2006
and priorities.
Approach
                                                                     MORE INFORMATION
Recognizing the need to act, in early 1997, the Government
                                                                      Project Doument
of China established priorities for health sector reform and
development. The Basic Health 8 Project set out to help               Country Website
China strengthen its rural health sector by reforming the             Country Overview
management of health resources, upgrading rural health
facilities, improving the quality and effectiveness of health         Country Partnership Strategy
services and programs, and increasing risk sharing and the            Data and Statistics
affordability of essential health care for the poor.
                                                                      Basic Health Services Project

                                                                      Improving Maternal Health –
The project had two parts. Part I, the main Basic Health            Lessons from the Basic Health
Services Project covering 71 counties in seven provinces,           Services Project in China (DFID
focused on improving planning, management and health                Briefing)
infrastructure, and increasing the quality, effectiveness, and
affordability of health services. Part II, the Qinba Health
Program covering 26 counties in three provinces, focused
on maternal and child health care and other key health
interventions, such as tuberculosis (TB) control and
immunization, and on a medical financial assistance program, which reimburses providers for
the costs of services for the very poor and reduces the cost of services for the poorest
families.

Results
The project achieved substantial results, specifically:



       Maternal, infant and under-six child mortality fell significantly to equal or below the
       national average. Maternal mortality in counties covered by Part I of the project
       decreased by over 40 percent from 1998 to 2005; counties covered in Part II fell by 7
       percent between 2002 and 2005. Infant mortality fell by 49 percent in Part I counties
       and considerably in Part II counties between 1997 and 2006.

       A total of 1,107 township health centers were built or renovated and provided with more
       and better medical equipment. More than 931,000 medical staff and workers received
       training.

       Rural Cooperative Medical Schemes were established, with enrollment increasing from
       194,000 to more than 10 million in the project areas between 1997 and 2006. Piloting of
       cooperative schemes also provided practical experience and lessons for national
       implementation later on.

       The Medical Financial Assistance Program ensured that the poorest received subsidies
       for their medical expenses. Approximately 143,000 people received hospitalization
       subsidies between 1997 and 2006 and nearly 1.2 million people received outpatient
       subsidies and free immunization from 1997 to 2006. The program later became the
       national policy and was implemented all over China.

       All project counties adopted annual health resource planning processes and developed
       a health information system, leading to more efficient use of health resources.

       Hospital delivery rates increased from 33 percent in 1998 to 74 percent in 2006 in the
       project areas, an increase of 124 percent. In particular, hospital delivery rates for low-
       income women increased from 17 percent to 73 percent, and hospital delivery rates for
       ethnic minority women from 13 percent to 79 percent.

       Approximately 16,000 TB patients were cured and 9,500 cataract patients received free
       or subsidized surgeries between 1997 and 2006.
      Approximately 93,000 women received subsidies for prenatal care and hospital delivery
      and 536,000 women received free or subsidized health exams between 1997 and 2006.

      Immunization coverage increased from 77 to 98 percent between 1997 and 2006;
      hepatitis B vaccination coverage rose from 42 to 67 percent; and the proportion of the
      tuberculosis control program using the standard Directly Observed Treatment Short
      (DOTS) course protocol rose from 71 percent (2002) to 100 percent.

Voices


     I go to the doctor when I feel really bad. Sometimes I will get
   medicine and injections, and other times I will be hospitalized
   for three days to a week. My expenses are covered by the
   program.
                                 — Bai Tingfang, a 78-year-old farmer
                             in Gansu Province, suffers from bronchitis



     In Beijing, it would cost several thousand yuan. Even a rural
   private doctor would charge several hundred yuan. We only paid
   180 yuan to the (township) hospital, with everything included,
   even immunization for the baby.
                                        — Sun Wen, a worker in Beijing
                            delivered a baby boy in a township hospital



Partners
Additional financial support from development partners included:

      The UK Department for International Development provided UK£21 million grants;

      The Ford Foundation provided US$0.5 million to improve reproductive health/safe
      delivery/rural community health promotion in four provinces;

      The China Foundation provided US$2.35 million to support feasibility testing of
      geothermal energy supply in township health centers in five provinces;

      The Global Environment Facility provided a grant of US$750,000 for passive solar
      hospital heating in remote areas of three poor counties;

      ORBIS International provided Chinese RMB 0.4 million for cataract treatment in Shanxi;

      The Rockefeller Foundation provided US$50,000 for a gender equity study in Gansu
      province;

      The Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency provided US$100,000 to
      support analysis of gender issues and equality of access to care in the Guizhou
      Province; and

      The Japan Social Development Fund provided US$0.4 million for a pilot on increasing
      service accessibility of rural poor.

Toward the Future
Building on the success of this project, the China Rural Health Project was launched in 2008.
The project is testing ideas for rural health reforms and suggesting workable models that could
be incorporated into national health policy reforms. The new project focuses on three reform
areas:

      Improving rural health financing by piloting strategies to reach universal coverage;

      Improving quality, efficiency, and cost control in service delivery by focusing on
      improving provider performance in rural primary care; and

      Strengthening the financing and organization of core public health functions by
      improving existing public health services and by piloting new interventions.
