                                          Document of
                                    The World Bank



                                                           Report No: ICR287



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-48650)



                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 90.0 MILLION
                         (US$ 122.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

                                           FOR A

               ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                    December 16, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
Europe and Central Asia
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective July 29th, 2013)

                    Currency Unit = Bulgarian Lev (BGN)
                           BGN 1.47761 = US$ 1
                          US$ 0.676782 = BGN 1

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADT       Annual Daily Traffic
CBA       Cost-Benefit Analysis
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EU        European Union
HDM-4     Highway Development and Management Model
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IRI       International Roughness Index
ISR       Implementation Status Report
JASPERS   Joint Assistance to Support Projects in European Regions
MRD       Ministry of Regional Development
MS        Moderately Satisfactory
MU        Moderately Unsatisfactory
OPRD      Operational Program for Regional Development
OPT       Operational Program for Transport
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PBC       Performance Based Contracts
PDO       Project Development Objective
RIA       Road Infrastructure Agency
RMS       Road Management System
SIL       Special Investment Loan
TEN-T     Trans European Network - Transport
VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost

                       Vice President: Laura Tuck, ECA VP
                     Country Director: Mamta Murthi, ECCU5
                      Sector Manager: Juan Gaviria, ECSTR
                 Project Team Leader: Orlin M. Dikov, ECSTR
                    ICR Team Leader: Rakesh Tripathi, ECSTR
                                               COUNTRY
                                                Bulgaria
                                              Project Name
                                Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project


                                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 27
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 28
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 29
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 46
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 47
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                                       Road Infrastructure
Country:                   Bulgaria                      Project Name:
                                                                                       Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:                P099894                       L/C/TF Number(s):             IBRD-48650
ICR Date:                  08/22/2013                    ICR Type:                     Core ICR
Lending Instrument:        SIL                           Borrower:                     The Republic of Bulgaria
Original Total
                           USD 122.50M                   Disbursed Amount:             USD 103.38M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:            USD 122.50M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Road Infrastructure Agency
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                                               Revised / Actual
       Process                 Date                Process               Original Date
                                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:            06/29/2006       Effectiveness:                12/13/2007              12/13/2007
Appraisal:                 12/20/2006       Restructuring(s):                                     03/31/2011
Approval:                  06/26/2007       Mid-term Review:              06/01/2009              10/12/2009
                                            Closing:                      06/30/2011              06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                             Moderate
Bank Performance:                                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                    Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                    Ratings               Borrower                               Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory            Government:                           Not Applicable
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision:  Satisfactory                                                  Not Applicable
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                         Satisfactory                                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                               QAG Assessments (if
                                 Indicators                                                     Rating
       Performance                                         any)
Potential Problem Project at
                               No                        Quality at Entry (QEA): None
any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                              Quality of Supervision
                               Yes                                                 None
(Yes/No):                                                (QSA):
DO rating before               Moderately Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                           4                      10
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                   96                      90



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                      13                    13
Infrastructure services for private sector development                       25                    25
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                       24                    24
Regional integration                                                         13                    13
Trade facilitation and market access                                         25                    25

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                             At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:               Laura Tuck                              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:             Mamta Murthi                            Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:               Juan Gaviria                            Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:          Orlin M. Dikov                          Mohammed Dalil Essakali
ICR Team Leader:              Rakesh Tripathi
ICR Primary Author:           Rakesh Tripathi
ICR Co-author                 Michael Butler

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the proposed project would be to assist Bulgaria to reduce road transport costs by
improving the condition and quality of its roads network during the first years of EU accession.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No Change
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                                       Revised / New         Actual Value
                                                Original Target
      Indicator          Baseline Value                                Target Values          Achieved at
                                                 Values (PAD)
                                                                      (Restructuring)         Completion
                     Percentage of improved Class I roads initially in poor condition, measured in IRI
Indicator 1 :
                     (International Roughness Index) cumulative values
Value
quantitative or                 0                     6.0%                 3.6%                   3.6%
Qualitative)
Date                       05/31/2007             05/31/2007            03/31/2011             06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                     Successfully achieved. Formally revised target reduced as a result of restructuring.
achievement)
                     Percentage of improved Class II roads initially in poor condition, measured in IRI
Indicator 2 :
                     (International Roughness Index) cumulative values
Value
quantitative or                0                      3.0%                 3.2%                  3.2%
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007           03/31/2011            06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    Successfully achieved. Formally revised target reduced as a result of restructuring.
achievement)
                    Percentage of improved Class III roads initially in poor condition, measured in IRI
Indicator 3 :
                    (International Roughness Index) cumulative values
Value
quantitative or                0                      1.0%                 0.5%                  0.5%
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007           03/31/2011            06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    Successfully achieved. Formally revised target reduced as a result of restructuring.
achievement)
                    Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC) on roads to be rehabilitated under the Project
Indicator 4 :
                    (Average, 2005 EUR per vehicle-kilometer)
Value
quantitative or              0.250                    0.225                   -                  0.225
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007                 -               06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    Target achieved on all completed roads sections under the Project
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                 Revised / New      Actual Value
                                                Original Target
      Indicator         Baseline Value                           Target Values       Achieved at
                                                 Values (PAD)
                                                                (Restructuring)      Completion
Indicator 1 :       Consultant Services for Project Management support for operational programs
Value
                                                                      260 cumulative      0 cumulative staff-
(quantitative            0 staff-months                 -
                                                                       staff-months            months
or Qualitative)
Date                      03/31/2011                   -               03/31/2011           06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %   This activity was canceled because the consultancy services were carried out in-house by
achievement)        JASPERS. (JASPERS services are free to the Govt., hence it was an economic decision)
Indicator 2 :       Consultant and advisory services for road sector management
Value
                                                                       24 cumulative     18 cumulative staff-
quantitative or          0 staff-months                 -
                                                                        staff-months          months
Qualitative)
Date                       03/31/2011                    -              03/31/2011           06/30/2013
                    This activity was partially achieved through the 18 month contract of the Highway
Comments (incl. %
                    Advisor procured under this Project. It should be noted additional advisory services were
achievement)
                    carried out in-house by RIA’s local consultant.
Indicator 3 :       Project management manuals reviewed, finalized and in use
Value
quantitative or               No                        -                   Yes                   No
Qualitative)
Date                      03/31/2011                    -               03/31/2011            06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    This was completed with RIA’s own funds under an in-house consultancy contract.
achievement)
                    Studies on institutional set up, human resources and development of competencies in
Indicator 4 :
                    the sector carried out
Value
quantitative or               No                        -                   Yes                   No
Qualitative)
Date                      03/31/2011                     -                03/31/2011            06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    This activity was canceled by RIA.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :       Number of kilometers of Class I roads rehabilitated under the Project
Value
quantitative or               0 km                    174km                 117 km               117.2km
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007             03/31/2011            06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    Successfully achieved. Formally revised target reduced as a result of restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :       Number of kilometers of Class II roads rehabilitated under the Project
Value
quantitative or               0 km                    138km                 127 km                130km
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007             03/31/2011            06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    Successfully achieved. Formally revised target reduced as a result of restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 7:        Number of kilometers of Class III roads rehabilitated under the Project
Value
quantitative or               0 km                    138km                 63 km                 62.9km
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007             03/31/2011            06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    Successfully achieved. Formally revised target reduced as a result of restructuring.
achievement)
                    Works (W), Goods (G), and Consulting Services (CS) contracts processed and
Indicator 8 :
                    managed by Management Consultant
Value
quantitative or       0 (W), 0 (G), 0 (CS)     9 (W); 8 (G); 2 (CS)            -           6 (W); 13 (G); 5 (CS)
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007                 -                06/30/2013
                    The restructured target was actually achieved. The number of civil works contracts was
Comments (incl. %
                    reduced from 9 to 6 as part of the restructuring, however this was not reflected in the
achievement)
                    revised results framework.
Indicator 9 :       Training received by RIA staff from management Consultant (in staff-hours)
Value
quantitative or                 0                      1,700                 2,200                 2,774
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007             03/31/2011            06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    Successfully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :      Updating of road data for Class I roads (% of total length per year)
Value
quantitative or                0%                     100%                     -                   80%
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007                  -                06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    It is expected that this will be achieved within 6 months of the project closing.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :      Updating of road data for Class II roads (% of total length per year)
Value
quantitative or                0%                      50%                     -                   25%
Qualitative)
Date                      05/31/2007               05/31/2007                  -                06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                    Due to insufficient budget, not all road data is being collected for Class II roads.
achievement)
Indicator 12 :      Updating of road data for Class III roads (% of total length per year)
Value                        0%                    15%                    -                        10%
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date                         05/31/2007                05/31/2007                 -                06/30/2013
Comments (incl. %
                       Due to insufficient budget, not all road data is being collected for Class III roads.
achievement)
Indicator 13 :         Implementation and Effective use of Road Management System by RIA
Value
quantitative or                   No                      Yes                     -                  Partially
Qualitative)
Date                         05/31/2007              05/31/2007                  -                 06/30/2013
                       Only partially implemented because automatic traffic counters were not procured. In
Comments (incl. %
                       terms of effectiveness, the RMS is not being used to its full potential (refer to Section 2.2
achievement)
                       for more details).
Indicator 14 :         Rolling Multi-year road maintenance and rehabilitation program established
Value
quantitative or                   No                      Yes                     -                  Partially
Qualitative)
Date                         05/31/2007              05/31/2007               -             06/30/2013
                       Although RIA has prepared annual and three-year programs for maintenance, they are not
Comments (incl. %
                       developing rolling multi-year programs using the newly procured Road Management
achievement)
                       System (Indicator 13).
                       Capacity of RIA to manage road maintenance: number of area-wide maintenance
Indicator 15 :
                       contracts prepared
Value
quantitative or                    0                        3                     -                     3
Qualitative)
Date                          05/31/2007              05/31/2007                -             06/30/2013
                       Three PBC contracts were prepared under the Project. RIA made additional
Comments (incl. %
                       modifications to the contracts and eventually tendered two PBC covering two motorway
achievement)
                       sections.
Indicator 16 :         Road safety strategy and plans prepared
Value
quantitative or                   No                      Yes                     -                    Yes
Qualitative)
Date                          05/31/2007              05/31/2007                 -               06/30/2013
                       This included the road safety capacity review and preparation of road safety action plan.
Comments (incl. %
                       In addition, 25 black spots were identified and detailed designs prepared for 10 –
achievement)
                       implementation is currently ongoing.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

           Date ISR                                                                        Actual Disbursements
 No.                                    DO                               IP
           Archived                                                                           (USD millions)
  1       11/13/2007              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           0.00
  2       03/06/2008              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           0.00
  3       05/05/2008              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           0.00
  4       11/06/2008              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           4.83
  5       03/23/2009         Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                     4.83
  6       08/05/2009              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         10.10
  7       12/08/2009              Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                     9.74
  8       04/14/2010         Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory                  18.14
  9       11/10/2010         Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory                  19.63
  10      06/29/2011        Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory                  36.92
  11      10/30/2011         Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                   47.38
  12      10/22/2012         Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                   92.44
  13     12/25/2012         Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                    92.44
  14     06/22/2013         Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                   102.61



H. Restructuring (if any)

                                  ISR Ratings at          Amount
                   Board
 Restructuring                    Restructuring        Disbursed at        Reason for Restructuring & Key
                  Approved
    Date(s)                                           Restructuring in             Changes Made
                 PDO Change        DO        IP
                                                       USD millions
                                                                         Level 2 Restructuring. The proposed
                                                                         project restructuring is necessary for
                                                                         the following two reasons: (i) To
                                                                         reflect the Government’s new priorities
                                                                         with regard to the absorption of
                                                                         European Union (EU) funds and; (ii)
                                                                         To improve project implementation
                                                                         performance.

                                                                         Key changes included: (i) reduction in
  03/31/2011          N/A          MS       MU              36.92        the scope of rehabilitation works under
                                                                         Component 1 and borrower’s financing
                                                                         share; (ii) expansion of “Component 2:
                                                                         Institutional Development” - focusing
                                                                         it on the absorption of EU funds; (iii)
                                                                         extension of the Loan Closing Date by
                                                                         24 months to enable full completion of
                                                                         the expanded Component 2 and of all
                                                                         ongoing road rehabilitation works
                                                                         under Component 1.
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.1.1   Country background.
At the time of approval, Bulgaria’s economy had grown by 6.2 percent in 2006 – at the same time poverty
levels had dropped and unemployment had decreased from 18 to 11.7 percent over the preceding six years.
At this time Bulgaria’s main challenge was to narrow the income gap and facilitate convergence with the
European Union (EU) by continuing to raise productivity and employment.
1.1.2   Road Sector Background
Prior to EU accession, Bulgaria had aligned its transport policy and regulations with that of the rest of EU,
providing the necessary framework for the country’s full integration within the EU transport market. In
addition, there had been several investment programs since the late 1990s to upgrade the transport
infrastructure to EU standards and to enhance the transport links with neighboring countries and with the
rest of the EU. Research had shown that only one-third of the national road network was in good
condition and road capacity around the large urban centers was not sufficient to satisfy the growing traffic
demand. Furthermore, a considerable portion of the core national road network still needed to be
upgraded to European technical and safety standards. Bulgaria was committed to completing the upgrade
of its main road network to EU standards by 2014, with a number of roads to be upgraded by 2008.
1.1.3   Rationale for Bank involvement.
In 2007, Bulgaria joined the European Union and it was already a major concern that the country would
be ill prepared to absorb EU Transport funds. In this scenario this project being the Bank’s first road
sector project in Bulgaria took on an added significance by introducing institutional capacity building
elements as part of this loan, which has now proven valuable on a wider road sector EU funds absorption
capacity of RIA. The primary rationale for Bank involvement derived from a Public Finance Policy
Review of the Bulgarian transport sector prepared by the Bank. The paper discussed the efficient use of
prospective EU grant funds in the road sector, and financing options for roads that are not eligible for EU
grants, with a particular emphasis on the need to strengthen institutional capacity of RIA. The
Government subsequently decided that the Bank could assist Bulgaria on three levels:
(i) To assist in improving the condition of roads outside the Trans-European Network - Transport (TEN-
    T) including Class I, II and III roads. Targeting Class II and III roads was expected to improve access
    to markets for the population and enterprises in small towns and rural areas. With direct development
    impact in rural and urbanized communities facing economic challenges in the country.
(ii) To improve the road management capacity of RIA through preparation of multiyear road
     maintenance programs (under a constrained budget) vis-à-vis modernization of the existing road data
     and management systems.
(iii) To assist with the establishment of the newly created Roads Policy Directorate in the Ministry of
      Transport in order to strengthen technical and managerial capacity to efficiently implement ongoing
      and future road projects.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The development objective of the proposed project was to assist Bulgaria to reduce road transport costs by
improving the condition and quality of its roads network during the first years of EU accession.
The list below specifies the project monitoring indicators, including the outcomes that were expected at
the end of the project.

                                                     1
Project outcome indicators
    (i) Improvement, by the end of the project, of the condition of roads to be rehabilitated under the
         project, measured in IRI 1. This will translate, at the network level, into the improvement of:
     (a) 6 percent of Class I roads; (b) 3 percent of Class II roads; (c) 1 percent of Class III roads
    (ii) Reduction, by the end of the project, in Vehicle Operating Costs by at least 10 percent on roads
         rehabilitated under the project.2
Project intermediate outcome indicators
    (i) Rehabilitation by the end of the project of about:
      (a) 174 km. of Class I roads; (b) 138 km. of Class II roads; (c) 138 km. of Class III roads
    (ii) Timely processing and implementation of contracts and the staff training program.
    (iii) Implementation and effective use by the RIA of an enhanced Road Management System.
    (iv) Preparation by the RIA of a rolling multi-year road maintenance and rehabilitation program.
    (v) Preparation by the RIA of at least three performance-based area-wide maintenance contracts.
    (vi) Preparation of a road safety improvement strategy with implementation plans.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The PDO was not affected by the restructuring of the project in April 2011, however the outcome and
intermediate indicators were amended to reflect the modified scope of the components and to be
consistent with the definition of the outcome indicators in the PAD. More specifically, the following
amendments were made: (i) Reduction of the targets for outcome indicators related to total number of
kilometers rehabilitated; (ii) Additional indicators to measure the results achieved in relation with the
expanded Component 2; and (iii) the definition of the outcome indicators related to the percentage of
Class I, II, and III roads to be rehabilitated included in the “Arrangement for results monitoring” in the
PAD were substituted with the definition of the same indicator as described in the “Results Framework”
table in the PAD. This change was necessary because the network-wide targets included in the table on
“Arrangement for results monitoring” included impacts of other ongoing road rehabilitation programs in
Bulgaria. The PDO indicators captured the road rehabilitation but did not explicitly measure achievements
in institutional strengthening and road safety which were only measured by intermediate indicators.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The PDO and key indicators showed that the primary beneficiaries of the Project would be the road users
and local businesses predominantly in economically depressed rural areas of Bulgaria. The improvement
of traffic conditions, especially on roads of regional importance, would improve both connectivity and
road safety for its users and promote economic growth in the region. In the socio-economic context, the
improvement of local roads directly influences the daily social life for 70 percent of the population who
live in the rural areas or in small towns. As a result, local people would have better access to public
amenities such as schools, healthcare and business centers. In addition, the execution of road
rehabilitation projects would generate new jobs quickly and stimulate the local economy through indirect
purchasing of local goods and services.



1
 IRI means International (Road) Roughness Index.
2
 The reduction in Vehicle Operating Cost in response to improved IRI is obtained from the Highway Development and
Management model (HDM-4). Inputs for HDM-4 will be adjusted so as to account for improvement in road condition only.



                                                           2
The secondary beneficiary of the Project was expected to be the Road Infrastructure Agency (RIA). The
institutional component of the Project was expected to improve RIA’s management capacity of the
republican road network; through better financial management and planning of road maintenance and
rehabilitation, and by introducing more cost-effective contracting mechanisms. The Project would also
support RIA in the implementation of the National Road Infrastructure Strategy by improving planned
policy and management of road maintenance and road safety priorities in accordance with European best
practice.

1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Rehabilitation of selected roads (estimated cost: EUR 140.15 million). This component
comprised civil works for the rehabilitation of selected Class I, II, and III roads during the period 2007-
2010 and the provision of consultancy services to assist RIA during the life of the project with the review
of the designs, procurement and contract management. Design and supervision of construction works
were to be carried out by consulting firms, and were not included in the project. RIA had prepared a
priority program for the rehabilitation of about 450 kilometers of road sections distributed throughout the
country, which were selected on the basis of economic and other social benefits.
The consultancy services under this component were to assist RIA through the provision of technical
advisory services and training regarding the review of designs, procurement, supervision, management
and reporting for the implementation of the project. This also included on-the job training for the
preparation of bidding documents, review of bids, and the coordination and oversight of quality control of
works and their supervision.
Component 2: Institutional Development (estimated cost: EUR 2.41 million). This component
comprised consulting services, studies, the provision of equipment, and training to: (i) strengthen the
internal management and operations of the RIA; (ii) improve road sector planning, programming,
budgeting, and program implementation with particular focus on the use of EU Cohesion and Structural
Funds; and (iii) improve the efficiency of road maintenance practices. The component included (a) a
technical advisor for the RIA's management, (b) technical assistance to enhance RIA's financial
management capacity and to conduct the required project financial audits which include operational
reviews, (c) technical assistance to develop a road management system and to prepare for piloting
Performance-based Maintenance Contracts, (d) the acquisition of road data collection equipment, related
software, and computer equipment, and update of traffic and road databases, and (e) a training program
for RIA staff and management on road management, and absorption of EU funds. These were activities
needed to gradually bring the RIA's operations and performance to the level of EU standards.
Component 3: Road safety (estimated cost: EUR 1.44 million). This component included: (i) EUR 0.24
million for technical assistance targeted at specific road safety improvements, such as the development of
road safety plans, public awareness campaigns, development of legal aspects of road safety, introduction
of new approaches to enforcement, development of new approaches for timely medical emergency
services, etc.; and (ii) EUR 1.20 million to finance priority activities aimed at improving road safety such
as removing traffic crash black spots, areas with traffic conflict situations, and for additional technical
assistance. The objective of this component was to assist in improving road safety in Bulgaria through a
coordinated and integrated package of cost-effective, multi-sectorial road safety interventions designed on
the basis of international best practice.
1.6 Revised Components
Component 1: Rehabilitation of Selected Roads. The scope and size of this component was reduced in
order to reflect the reduced budget for the project in 2010 and 2011. Budgetary restrictions have been
imposed on public investment programs due to the impact of the global financial crisis on Bulgaria’s
fiscal position, and to the Government’s fiscal policy aimed at keeping the budget deficit under control in
                                                     3
compliance with EU’s budget deficit targets. This implies longer implementation periods for most
contracts under the project. The reduced budget impacted the project’s financing plan and prevented RIA
from starting some road rehabilitation works and completing them, even with the proposed extension to
the Loan Closing Date.
The restructuring included a reduction in the length of roads to be rehabilitated from 450 kilometers (as
described in the original Loan Agreement) to 307 kilometers of roads. Until June 30, 2010, contracts had
been awarded for the rehabilitation of 392 kilometers of roads (after modifications of the scope of works
from the original 450 kilometers). Therefore, contracts (lots 5, 6 and 7) corresponding to about 87
kilometers out of 392 km for which works had not started were cancelled. The original total project cost
was Euro 144 million and the revised total project cost was Euro 105.2 million, hence the reduction in the
length of rehabilitated roads (From 450 km to 307 km).

Component 2: Institutional Development. The scope of this component was expanded and focused on the
two first sub-components goals as described in the PAD and in the Loan Agreement under Part II.1: (i)
strengthen the internal management and operations related to the road sector; and (ii) improve road sector
planning, programming, budgeting and program implementation with particular focus on road programs
funded from the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund. This expansion followed
a request from the Minister of Regional Development and subsequent letter from the Prime Minister
addressed to the World Bank President to cover project management support to EU funds absorption in
road sector. The aim of the expanded activities was to help with the full and timely utilization of EU funds
available to the road sector in Bulgaria, and accelerating the preparation, approval, implementation and
disbursement of these funds. The additional areas of support was planned to start in mid 2011 and to span
over a period of 24 months. The project management support was provided by JASPERS for no cost to
the agency.
The specific activities included the provision of consultancy services to provide advice on EU funds
implementation, including the review of current status of the EU supported Operational Program for
Transport (OPT) and Operational Program for Regional Development (OPRD) and the support to
streamline and standardize preparation and implementation of projects. They would also directly provide
technical services to strengthen RIA and MRD’s directorates in charge of management of EU-funded road
projects and support practical preparation of EU-funded road programs for the period 2010 – 2020.
There was also a cancelation of a small subcomponent related to “Support to RIA to enhance its financial
management capacity through the provision of technical advisory services, training and equipment and the
carrying out of studies”. This subcomponent was initially expected to enhance RIA’s financial
management system. Since project appraisal, RIA has implemented—outside of the scope of the project—
an upgrade of its financial management system.
Component 3: Road Safety. There were no changes under this component.

1.7 Revised Financing
As a result of the restructuring of Components 1 and 2, the project costs were revised as indicated in
Table 1 below.
                   Table 1: Project Costs by Component (EUR million with VAT)
                        Components/Activities               Original            Revised
              1. Rehabilitation of selected roads             140.15                95.06
              2. Institutional development                       2.41                9.12
              3. Road safety                                     1.44                1.44
              Total Project Costs                             144.00              105.62


                                                     4
With the reduced project cost, and in order to provide flexibility to the government during the years
following the financial crisis, it was agreed to keep the loan amount unchanged (EUR 90 million) and to
decrease the share of financing from the Borrower. The increase in the share of Bank financing is
reflected in an increase in the percentage of expenditures to be financed from loan proceeds as shown in
Table 2 below.
 Table 2: Allocation of Loan proceeds by Disbursement Category and percentage of expenditures to
                                  be financed from loan proceeds
                                     Original     Allocation         Actual          Percentage of Expenditures to be
                                    allocation       after          project              financed from the Loan
                                      (EUR)      Restructuring    expenditures
                                                    (EUR)                          Original    Revised        Actual
                                                                                                (1)(2)
(1) Goods and Works for the       88,000,000      81,000,000      76,835,000        75%          90%           79%
Project
(2) Consultants’ Services,         2,000,000       9,000,000      20,150,000        75%         100%           21%
Audits, Training and Technical
Advisory Services for the Project
 Total                            90,000,000      90,000,000      97,146,000 3
    (1) Of expenditures including VAT.
    (2) The percentages come into force for payments upon the effectiveness of the proposed amendment to the Loan
    Agreement.

1.8 Time Extension: Revised Closing Date
The project restructuring also included the extension of the Loan Closing Date by 24 months; to enable
the full completion of the expanded Component 2 and of all ongoing road rehabilitation works under
Component 1. The new Loan Closing Date was June 30, 2013. The rationale for extension was to enable
the Borrower to complete the road rehabilitation works and achieve a satisfactory outcome in the
expanded institutional development component. This was the first and only extension of the project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
2.1.1 Soundness of the background analysis. Project preparation included a good analysis of the
challenges facing the road sector at the time of appraisal and extensive dialogues with the Government to
assist it define a responsive strategy. The rationale for Bank involvement in the rehabilitation of lower-tier
roads was underpinned by the Public Finance Policy Review 4 prepared by the Bank in 2006. This study
included a review of how Bulgaria could make efficient use of prospective EU grant funds in the road
sector, including the issue of and how to finance roads that are not eligible for EU grants financing and
the importance of strengthening the institutional capacity of Bulgaria’s road management.
At the time of appraisal, other IFI’s were focusing primarily on financing construction and rehabilitation
of motorways and Class I roads within the Trans-European Network – Transport (TEN-T). All these
major projects and programs focused on European corridors and the Government was of the view that this
should not crowd out spending needed to clear the large maintenance and rehabilitation backlog on other
Class I roads, and more particularly on Class II and III roads. The proposed project was envisaged to


3
    There is 161 thousand Euro foreign currency exchange rate difference
4
    Bulgaria Public Finance Policy Review. World Bank Report No. 33992-BG. 2006.

                                                            5
address this particular issue by addressing the balance between financing for maintenance of existing
assets and that for new construction, as well as between roads within and outside EU corridors.
During its early transition years, Bulgaria implemented reforms in the institutions of the road sector, but
over the last decade there has been concern that these changes have not led to significant improvements in
policy administration nor in the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery. The implications of
unfinished reforms and lack of efficiency are not negligible: poor prioritization leads to high fiscal costs,
significant grant funds from the European Union (EU) are underutilized, and transport infrastructure and
services are far below the expectations of Bulgarian citizens and European quality standards.
The Bank team also discussed with the MRDPW, the COM and RIA the content of the separate support
requested by the Government from the World Bank in terms of reimbursable advisory services (RAS).
Development of the terms of reference had been initiated. It was agreed that the MRDPW, RIA and
World Bank will finalize the Terms of Reference in a way to avoid any overlap, ensure full consistency
and avoid any conflict of interest between the two activities.
2.1.2 Assessment of the Project design. The Project design was relatively straightforward in terms of
the main civil works component, implementation arrangements and safeguard policies involved. The main
civil works component financed the rehabilitation of selected Class I, II and III roads, including
consultancy services for project management. The type of rehabilitation works was straightforward and
did not require land acquisition.
Focus on lower class roads in predominantly rural and undeveloped area align with World Bank’s mission
and its development impact.
2.1.3 Adequacy of Government’s commitment. At the time of appraisal, the Project was consistent with
the objectives of the Government’s draft Transport Strategy 5, whose goals were to achieve economic
efficiency, develop a sustainable transport sector, and assist regional and social development. These
objectives are still relevant today and are consistent with the draft Road Sector Strategy currently being
prepared by the government. The Project at entry also supported the objectives of the Sectorial
Operational Program for Transport (SOPT) in terms of institutional capacity building of RIA and
improving their ability to effectively utilize EU cohesion funds – also consistent with the draft Road
Sector Strategy.
2.1.4 Assessment of risks. At appraisal stage, the Project was identified as a moderate risk operation.
Although RIA had successfully implemented IFI funded projects in the past, there was a new challenge to
adjust to the increase in activities and political environment following accession to the EU. The main risk
was institutional because RIA had been recently restructured with a new type of oversight arrangement
and reported to three ministries instead of one; it had different type of road financing base sources; and
changes to operating procedures. However, there were no controversial issues foreseen to arise during the
implementation of the project. The following is an assessment of the Project risks / mitigation identified at
appraisal stage:
1) Institutional change. There was a moderate risk that the ongoing organizational changes in the road
   sector in Bulgaria may take longer than what initially envisaged under the Project. RIA management
   had been restructured and needed time to adjust to its new environment and implement the remaining
   institutional changes. This risk was well identified and was a constant issue during implementation.
   The Project included technical assistance activities to assist the Government with this ongoing
   institutional change –this mitigated the risk to a certain extent, but it was very difficult for the Bank to


5
 Strategy for the Development of the National Transport System of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2015.Ministry of Transport.
2005.

                                                             6
       eliminate the bottlenecks in RIA’s procurement procedures. However, the management consultant was
       very helpful assisting RIA in this regard.
2) Funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation. There was a moderate risk that insufficient
   funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation would continue after Project effectiveness. The
   Government expected that additional funding for the road sector in general from EU Cohesion and
   Structural Funds after EU accession may free some money for road maintenance. The Government
   also anticipated higher revenues from the road vignette. When the global financial crisis hit in 2009,
   which could not have been anticipated at project appraisal, Bulgaria had to tighten its fiscal controls
   and this subsequently led to the freezing of counterpart disbursements.
3) Implementation of road works under the project. There was also a moderate risk that the project
   may suffer from delays in procuring road works. Some past road investment projects in Bulgaria such
   as those financed with EU pre-accession funds had suffered from significant delays. This risk was
   mitigated very well by the Bank – the Project included the services of a consulting firm to assist with
   overall procurement and contract management – this was very effective in ensuring faster
   procurement procedures.
4) Efficient maintenance planning and implementation. There was a moderate risk that it would take
   time for RIA to prepare and implement medium-term rolling plans for maintenance using the
   equipment, tools and methodologies procured or developed under the proposed project. There was
   also a risk that testing new methods for maintenance implementation such as area-wide performance-
   based maintenance contracting may be delayed or abandoned.

2.2 Implementation
2.2.1 Implementation efficiency. Delays in implementation have been a challenge throughout the
Project’s lifecycle and this was mostly as a result of changes in government and RIA management, and
budgetary austerity measures during the global financial crisis of 2009. Despite a positive start to the
project, including the launch of initial works contracts and mobilization of contractors, Implementation
Progress was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory in early 2009 after substantial delays in contract
management and slow disbursement from the loan. This was as a result of major restructuring and
changes in RIA management, creating severe bottlenecks in procedures and delays in procurement.
Although there was a significant recovery in late 2009 (63 percent of the loan committed to signed
contracts), a new government came into power which led to further restructurings within RIA
management and budgetary constraints. As a result of intense fiscal pressure in the country’s economy,
the new government decided to freeze disbursements from the loan for the entire 2010 construction
season 6 . Some contractors continued to work despite the uncertainty of payment because they were
already mobilized and in some cases close to completion. However, most of the contracts were delayed
for several months severely impacting the implementation progress and downgrading its rating to
Moderately Unsatisfactory for 2010. Implementation efficiency was eventually improved in late 2011
following the project restructuring and improvement in the fiscal environment – untendered lots were
dropped and remaining works were completed within an extended timeframe, albeit with some delays in
the road safety component (see below).
2.2.2 Mid-term review and project restructuring. The mid-term review provided a good opportunity for
the Bank to discuss new priorities with the new government and how the Project could support these goals.
The government expressed that its top priority was to ensure the speedy and full utilization of the EU



6
    A letter was sent by the government to all contractors stating that payment of works would be delayed until further notice.

                                                                  7
Cohesion and Regional Development Funds that were available to the Bulgarian road sector. A year later
the project restructuring played a crucial role in turning the course of Project implementation for the better.
After substantial delays in 2010, as mentioned previously, the Project was restructured by scaling down
civil works contracts, extending project timeframe and scaling up the institutional components to assist in
the government’s new priorities. Most importantly, the project restructuring reduced the share of
counterpart funding, allowing them more flexibility and ability to disburse on time. Although this was
critical in ensuring the completion of civil works, it would have been more advantageous to have
restructured the project earlier to improve efficiency of delivery.
2.2.3 Quality of completed rehabilitation works. Works were executed in compliance with the approved
design documentation and approved modifications to the lots. All modifications were clearly documented
and reviewed in the Supervising Consultant’s reports. The supervisor conducted regular site inspections to
check the quality of executed works and materials in order to satisfy the Technical Specification and the
approved design. As a whole, the Works were executed with good quality and workmanship. Further to
the supervisor’s assessment, additional testing of construction materials and completed sections of the
Works were conducted by the technical institute within RIA. There were only a few instances when the
quality of works and/or materials were insufficient – in such cases the materials were removed from the
sites and/or the works were re-executed until achieving the required characteristics. The achievement of
the required level of quality of executed Works was tested and monitored by the site laboratories prior to
the handing over of the assets. The defect liability period for all civil works contracts is now complete and
the quality of works has been accepted by RIA.
2.2.4 Delivery of Road Management System. The main objective of the institutional development
component of the Project was to implement a modern and sustainable Road Management System (RMS),
which was envisaged to be fully effective by the end of the Project. Unfortunately, this objective was only
partially achieved. The majority of RMS hardware (i.e. data collection and testing equipment) and
software (i.e. computer programs for data analysis, management and strategic planning) was installed
during the implementation. The first attempt to supply supplementary (but not mandatory for the RMS)
equipment such as the automatic traffic counters was not completed due to limited response from
suppliers. There was a second attempt to procure traffic counters which was again unsuccessful. In
addition, the specialized consultant provided training to RIA staff on the effective usage of the RMS
equipment and computer software. Although the training itself was successful, many of the trained
personnel are no longer in their original positions, leaving the technical institute with limited human
resource capacity.
2.2.5 Performance Based Contracts (PBC). The PBC initiative was a major undertaking and a paradigm
shift for a very traditional roads agency to start implementing an innovative delivery method. This
institution capacity building dimension can be considered a major milestone in the way maintenance
delivery is looked at in Bulgaria. Due to the success of PBC, currently the RIA is designing a major PBC
contract which would cover a large proportion of secondary roads, all of which will result in significant
improvement in the efficiency of road assets in the country.
A consultant engaged for this component successfully completed the studies for the design and
procurement of PBC in Bulgaria. The PBC models developed under this project were modified by RIA as
follows: (i) adapted to public procurement legislation; and (ii) contract duration reduced from 5 to 2 years
(due to budgetary constraints). The modified contracts are now being piloted on Liulin and Lot 2, 3 and 4
of Trakia motorway. RIA has expressed its overall satisfaction with PBC and had some useful lessons
learnt. Since the winters in Bulgaria are not always consistent, there were suggestions to change the
winter maintenance performance indicators (coefficients) by improving the level of intervention. Another
important lesson is that PBCs need to be at least 5 – 10 years in order to be cost efficient. Overall, this
institutional development activity was successfully implemented.

                                                      8
2.2.6 Delivery of road safety activities. The program for training of road safety instructors in RIA and the
Ministry of Transport was satisfactorily implemented. At the end of the program 24 participants became
certified in Road Safety Design & Audit and Network Safety Management in accordance with the EU
directive for management of road infrastructure safety. Although this is a positive outcome, it is important
that more training is provided in the coming years to keep up the momentum and ensure that road safety
capacity is raised to a level where Bulgaria can independently conduct Road Safety Audits and
incorporate road safety improvements into road designs. It should be noted that this is already being done
and the recently completed road sections under this project incorporated many important road safety
improvements with commendable results. The road safety value engineering was done as a joint
collaborative approach between RIA, traffic police and other important stakeholders.
The following were met: (i) road safety capacity review and preparation of road safety action plan; and
(ii) preparation and implementation of road safety interventions. The first activity has been completed and
the outcome target has been achieved. Under the second activity, road safety consultants investigated 25
black spots and prepared detailed designs for 10 of them. Unfortunately, the interventions were not
implemented within the project closing date. RIA intends to implement the proposed interventions for all
25 black spots.
2.2.7 Consultancy Services for increasing EU absorption. In relation to the support to RIA in increasing
EU funds absorption (included at the request of the Minister after project restructuring in April 2011)
under Operational Programs for Transport and Regional Development (OPT and OPRD), this was only
partially completed. RIA canceled the loan proceeds (6 million EUR) relating to the consultancy service
for OPT/OPRD; including institutional assessment of RIA, and review and improvement of project
management manuals. Although the component was canceled from the project, the discussions about its
scope of work helped RIA better clarify its weaknesses and focus its own interventions on those areas that
needed be urgently addressed.
The project restructuring also included the hiring of a Highway Advisor responsible for providing
strategic advice to the high level policy makers at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public
Works for the road sector in Bulgaria. The overall services of the advisor were successful and provided
strategic advice on issues such as road financing, road sector policy, evaluation of roles and
responsibilities of MRDPW and RIA, performance assessment and indicators for road sector, public
private partnerships (PPP) and long-term maintenance and development.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Project monitoring during project implementation was carried out by RIA. Their responsibilities included
close supervision of the civil works and technical assistance, auditing financial statements, and
monitoring project performance indicators for the duration of the project. Project reports were prepared by
RIA on a quarterly basis and submitted to the Bank for review. The technical institute within RIA was
responsible for collecting data for the performance indicators over the course of the project’s lifecycle.
Data collection & management within the technical institute was strengthened under the project through
the financing of better instruments for data acquisition and management.

The Results Framework of the PAD consisted of a list of outcome indicators and intermediate results for
monitoring progress and outcomes (Section 3.2). The project design included specific output indicators
for each component, and covered physical as well as institutional results (Annex 2). In 2009, four Core
Sector Indicators were introduced for monitoring. The Results Framework was updated as part of the
restructuring in 2011 to incorporate core indicators and new/modified indicators that reflected the revised
scope of works and new priorities of the government (Section 3.2).



                                                     9
The project included two components for Institutional strengthening and road safety with significant
development impact. However these components did not have a corresponding PDO development
indicator but rather intermediate indicators.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
2.4.1 Environmental Safeguards. The Project triggered Bank safeguards policy “Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)” and was classified as an environmental Category B project. An Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was prepared by RIA and included all measures to address potential
environmental impacts (e.g. the approach to ensure during works adequate passage for animals, drainage
or other issues that are relevant to the specific areas) and monitoring activities to be implemented during
the construction stage. Overall, the EMP was satisfactorily implemented by contractors and monitored by
the Supervision Engineer and RIA.
2.4.2 Social Safeguards. Since all of the civil works under this project was within the existing right of
way, there was no land acquisition needed. There were no reports of complaints from local people during
the project life.
2.4.3 Procurement. The procurement of works, goods and technical assistance (non-consulting services)
was carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines. All contracts under the latest update of the
procurement plan were signed and completed before the project closing date on June 30, 2013. All civil
works lots were procured through international competitive bidding.
2.4.4 Financial Management. The financial management aspects of the Project were managed by the
existing financial experts from the Projects Financial and Payments Department within RIA. Although the
experts did not have previous experience working on Bank-funded projects, they learned on the job,
adapted well and became fully familiarized with the Bank’s financial management and disbursement
guidelines. RIA had adequate internal controls which were in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation
and the Bank’s project financial management manual.
Overall, the FM performance of the project has been moderately satisfactory throughout the project life.
The quarterly unaudited financial monitoring reports have been received in general on time, although
there were some small delays. The most recent reports received covered the final quarter of the project,
which closed June 30, 2013. With certain follow up actions required to clarify any discrepancies, all the
audit reports have been accepted by the Bank. The project team used to wait until the Designated
Account was depleted, before requiring replenishments, despite several recommendations to the contrary
made by the Bank team along the project life. This caused at times some delays in the timely payment of
suppliers and contractors, despite loan funds being readily available. All the project audit reports have
been received and accepted by the Bank by the due dates. The audit opinions were clean and some
internal control issues were mentioned. Some of the internal control issues mentioned, such as using the
different eligibility percentage required a long time to be addressed. The final adjustments in correcting
the Bank eligible percentages have been done at the end of the project life. The final project reports,
including figures up to the end of the grace period (October 31, 2013) were submitted. The auditors
submitted the final project audit reports by end November, 2013.
The counterpart financing has been satisfactory in the final years of the project, following the
improvement of the counterpart funds from 2011 onwards and the 2011 project restructuring which
reduced the burden on the Government and increased the Bank-eligible expenditure percentage. The
project has been affected to a certain extent by delays in the provision of timely and adequate counterpart
funding, especially during 2010, when the CF rating has been less than satisfactory. This has also led to
some issues with the eligibility percentage used for some project expenses, and these issues have been
only fully sorted out at the end of the project.


                                                    10
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The newly rehabilitated road sections under the Project have all been handed back to RIA following the
successful completion of the defect liability periods. Summer and winter maintenance of the entire
Republican Road Network in Bulgaria is contracted out to the private sector under multi-year
maintenance contracts (usually 4 years in duration). The maintenance contracts are split amongst each of
the 27 country districts and cover the respective roads within that area. Unfortunately, current
maintenance practices in Bulgaria are insufficient in terms of planning of works, contract methodology
and funding requirements. Moreover, planning and budgeting for routine maintenance and repairs is a
subjective exercise undertaken annually at the end of the winter season - quantities are determined in joint
meetings with the districts’ maintenance staff and RIA’s maintenance management – leading to lack of
quality control. It was evident from site visits that summer maintenance, such as vegetation cutting and
clearing of open drains, was not being done on many of the newly rehabilitated sections. There is a real
threat to sustainability if these issues are not proactively addressed.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
3.1.1 Relevance of the PDO. The PDO remains relevant as first, second and third class roads outside of
Bulgaria’s TEN-T road network still require rehabilitation and improvement to improve access to markets
for the population and enterprises in small towns and rural areas, augment employment opportunities after
EU accession, and reduce traffic conflicts and road crash black spots. The institutional capacity of RIA
still needs strengthening, especially in terms of road management capacity of RIA and its capacity to
independently prepare multiyear road maintenance programs under a constrained budget. However, it was
not particularly covered in the PDO. Improving Bulgaria’s road transport links with the rest of the EU is
still of critical importance. Moreover, improving internal transportation is essential for connecting the
high proportion of people living in rural areas to key markets and services, especially when you consider
Bulgaria’s geographic and economic features. In addition, the PDO is still in line with the Bank’s CPS.
3.1.2 Relevance of Design. Improvement in the conditions of the lower-tier republican road network
remains the backbone of efforts to decrease rural poverty, promote regional development and better
integrate the economy at the national level. Furthermore, by improving the connectivity of the road
network in the most remote regions, there is improved accessibility to key services such as education and
healthcare. This is still very relevant today because many hospitals are far away from villages and small
towns; therefore improved accessibility of ambulances is very important for time sensitive emergencies.
The road safety activities designed under the Project are still very relevant today and remain an important
agenda for the government, especially in terms of achieving the EU directive to reduce the number of
fatalities in the country.
3.1.3 Relevance of Implementation. Rehabilitation of roads under component 1 constituted 90% of the
overall Project cost, therefore it was one of the main focuses during implementation and critical in terms
of disbursement. The civil works remained relevant throughout the Project and it was very important that
they were completed on time to ensure no cost overruns. As mentioned earlier, there were delays during
implementation, which severely threatened the sustainability of the government’s investment. The
implementation of the institutional strengthening activities was very relevant in respect to RIA improving
its road management capabilities and role in road safety improvements. Constant organizational change
and personnel turnover has resulted in depleted institutional memory with respect to RMS. The on-going
of Road Safety measures and acceptance the Road Safety report are encouraging signs.

Under the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the Prime Minister of Bulgaria and the
World Bank President on August 10, 2010, the Government of Bulgaria requested a stronger role for the
World Bank as a technical adviser to the government in the road sector. Mechanisms for utilizing funds
                                                11
under the Operational Programs to obtain these services from the World Bank were explored with the
European Commission (EC) and Advisory Service Agreement was signed in October 2012.
The support complements and significantly scales up the Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
cooperation between Bulgaria and the World Bank in the roads sector. Under Government leadership, the
World Bank support program was fully coordinated with other ongoing and planned technical assistance
provided by the EC, EIB and JASPERS, driven by a common vision to create synergies and better
leverage support from the respective institutions.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
A big picture achievement of this project is that it went beyond the actual project development objectives.
This project gave the Bank a space for very fruitful policy dialogue with the Bulgarian government. It
helped the Bank get widely involved in the road sector reforms and institutional capacity enhancement.

 The Project achievements on the institutional front helped the Bulgarian government better understand
the value proposition of the Bank’s technical support during supervision. Separately from the Project, the
Government of Bulgaria engaged the Bank in Reimbursable Advisory Services.

The achievement of the PDO is rated as moderately satisfactory. While the achievement of the revised
outcome indicators relating to the civil works were satisfactory at the end of the project, the achievement
of PDO by the time of restructuring is considered moderately unsatisfactory, thus weighted outcome is
moderately satisfactory.

Also the achievement of institutional capacity outputs was only moderately satisfactory, due to partial
completions and some cancelations. There is a threat that the positive outcomes associated with the capital
improvements may diminish if road management/ contracting practices are not improved. Critical success
factors will depend on the optimization of the RMS and the paradigm shift towards preventative
maintenance, rather than reactive maintenance which is very prevalent in Bulgaria.

Road safety component was implemented successfully with moderately satisfactory outcome, due to the
not implemented black spots improvements under the project. Both institutional and road safety
components, not covered in the PDO, are rated as moderately satisfactory.

PDO ratings, related to the rehabilitation works, were weighted in proportion to the share of actual loan
disbursements made before and after the approval of the Level-2 restructuring.

The final rating that results is Moderately Satisfactory, after rounding to the nearest whole number. The
summary of the assessments is provided in table 3.2.1. The PDO weighted rating is consistent with the
other two components rating.




                                                    12
                                Table 3.2.1. Assessment of the Overall Outcome

                                     Against              Against
                                     Original             Revised
                                     Outcome              Outcome
                                     indicators           indicators          Overall         Comments
  Relevance of the PDOs,
1 design, and implementation         Relevant             Relevant
  Achievement of the Project         Moderately
2 Outcome                            Unsatisfactory       Satisfactory
                                     Moderately
3 Efficiency                         Unsatisfactory       Satisfactory
                                     Moderately
4 Overall Rating                     Unsatisfactory       Satisfactory
5 Rating value                                        3                  5
  Weight (% disbursed
6 before/after PDO change)                        30%                  70%
  Weighted value (5 x 6)                           0.9                  3.5             4.4
                                                                                           Rounded to 4, which
                                                                              Moderately arrives at ”Moderately
       Final rating (rounded)                                                 Satisfactory Satisfactory”


When the Project closed, its achievement in relation to the revised outcome indicators were successfully
achieved as follows:
(i)      The targets for the indicator ‘Improvement, by the end of the project, of the condition of roads to be
         rehabilitated under the project, measured in IRI’ was successfully achieved for Class I (3.6%),
         Class II (3.2%) and Class III (0.5%) roads at the network level.
(ii)     The target for the indicator ‘Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC) on roads to be rehabilitated under the
         Project’ was 0.225 EUR per vehicle-kilometer and successfully achieved.
The following revised Output Indicators were successfully achieved:
• The targets for the number of kilometers of Class I, II and III roads rehabilitated under the Project
  were all achieved
• The required Works (W), Goods (G), and Consulting Services (CS) contracts were all successfully
  processed and managed by the Management Consultant. However, the targets in the restructuring
  paper should have been modified to reflect the reduced works packages that were formally dropped.
• The management consultant provided 2,774 hours of training to RIA staff, exceeding the target by 500
  hours.
• The road safety strategy and plans were successfully prepared
• Three PBC contracts were successfully prepared under the Project. RIA made additional
  modifications to the contracts to be in line with the public procurement law and also consolidated two
  contracts into one; eventually tendering two PBC covering two motorway sections, which remain in
  operation.
The following Output Indicators were only partially achieved:
• The updating of road data for Class I, II and III roads (% of total length per year) was only partially
  completed. RIA claims has insufficient budget to collect all data on road network, especially for Class
  II and III roads.
                                                  13
 • The implementation and effectiveness of the Road Management System (RMS) was only partially
   completed. Firstly, the automatic traffic counters were not procured, which are an important part of
   the optimization of the system. Secondly, the RMS did not reach full effectiveness because most of
   the trained personnel who can effectively use HDM-4 for strategic planning and programming
   purposes left RIA. This problem is further exacerbated by the lack of introducing RMS in
   management decision process.
 • RIA prepared annual and three-year programs for maintenance; however they did not use RMS as a
   technical/economic basis for developing rolling multi-year programs. The usage of RMS as a
   technical/economic basis for decision making takes away the subjectivity of selection and
   prioritization of road maintenance and rehabilitation. It is important that RIA continue to improve
   their road management decision making systems in order to achieve sustainable development
   outcome.
The four Output Indicators relating to the consultancy services for project management support for
operational programs; advisory services for road sector management; review/update of Project
Management manuals; and studies on institutional set up, human resources and development of
competencies in the sector were not achieved as a result of cancelation from the Project. However, the
consultancy services have been undertaken in the meantime with RIAs own resources, and project
preparation for OPT and OPRD were supported by local consultant. Despite the cancelation, the
achievements can still be rated as moderately satisfactory as a result of RIA’s own intervention and efforts.

3.3 Efficiency
Efficiency is rated as satisfactory.
After project completion, the Borrower carried out an ex-post economic evaluation of the 6 lots
implemented under the Project, including 21 road sections covering 310.2km. The ex-post economic
evaluation was done using the HDM-4 model adopting an evaluation period of 15 years and a discount
rate of 12 percent. Vehicle operating costs were derived for the three vehicle types which predominate in
the traffic mix based on current vehicle fleet characteristics. The new economic evaluation would
supersede the economic analysis done at project appraisal.

The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) was recalculated for the 21 project roads (Annex 3) by
updating the baseline economic data with actual construction costs (US$/km) and latest traffic growth
rates (vehicles/day). An evaluation of the annual traffic growth rate observed on project roads from 2005
to 2010 shows that the average annual traffic growth rate was on average about 2 percent per year, which
is half of what was estimated at appraisal.

The ex-post EIRRs show a significant variance, ranging from 15.9 and 86.0 percent. All individual road
sections have an EIRR higher than 12 percent under the project scenario. The overall EIRR is 28.3
percent, which is higher than the overall EIRR estimated at appraisal for the 6 lots (25.8 percent),
indicating that the project has a robust economic justification. The ex-post economic evaluation results
show that the project benefits are higher than the ones estimated at appraisal due to the lower actual
rehabilitation costs per km, despite the lower than expected annual traffic growth rate measured from
2005 to 2010. More details on Economic and Financial Analysis are available in Annex 3.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory, because of the relevance of PDOs, Project design
and implementation to the Bank’s current CPS, national and global priorities, the moderately satisfactory
achievement of the PDOs, and the satisfactory efficiency of the project. The main civil works component
                                                    14
was successfully completed in accordance with the revised scope in the restructuring – the quality of
works was good and there were no outstanding social or environmental issues. The main drawbacks in the
Project were in relation to implementation delays and partial execution of the institutional component.
Although the outcome was achieved, there is a risk of the benefits diminishing if road management /
financing capacity are not improved; hence the rating for the Project is moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As mentioned in the Beneficiary Survey (Annex 5), there have been overwhelmingly positive responses
from residents living along the road, local businesses and the road safety of the users. The better road
quality has reduced commuting times between villages and towns significantly, allowing much easier
access to markets and key services such as healthcare and education. Public transportation companies
have increased the regularity of its trip schedules, allowing much more frequent low-cost commutes. This
is especially important to the vulnerable population such as the elderly, children and pregnant mothers –
regular bus services allow them to reach schools and hospitals much easier. In addition, the Project has
most certainly contributed to economic development by reducing transportation costs and opening
economic opportunities for communities living along the completed roads – better linking them to central
business districts and providing an outlet for agricultural products and commercial goods.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Since the Bank’s initial involvement in 2005/2007, there has been numerous restructurings within RIA and
many changes in terms of management and technical personnel. Despite this, RIA has still retained a lot of
its strengths in terms of road engineering and maintenance, which have always been at the core of the
business. The agency continues to develop and this has become ever so important since EU accession and
pressure to absorb EU funds. The involvement of the World Bank through the project has had a positive
influence on institutional capacity building within RIA, especially in terms of new procurement practices;
monitoring and evaluation; and safeguard compliance in project.

The Bank has introduced many new concepts under this project, which were critical in ensuring
sustainability in the road sector. The institutional strengthening activities relating to RMS has given RIA the
tools to be able to effectively manage its road network and strategically prioritize and plan works to
optimize the lifecycle cost of its assets. As mentioned previously, more training and additional resources
need to be allocated to the RMS for its full effectiveness. The introduction of PBC has also opened up a
more efficient and cost-effective contracting methodology for routine and periodic maintenance of the road
network. It is important that this progress is sustained in coming years and phased into the existing area-
wide maintenance contracts which are currently in operation. Finally, road safety capacity of the borrower
has also been raised significantly as a result of the Bank’s technical assistance relating to the training of the
road safety auditors, road safety value engineering on the completed road sections and removal of black
spots. Although this is a positive start, it is paramount that these efforts continue in terms of additional
training, more collaboration between traffic police and RIA, and better overall governance of road safety at
the ministerial level.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The beneficiary survey showed that the completed road sections had tremendous benefits on the local
population residing in the local villages and towns. As a result of improved ride quality and commuting
time between villages and major towns, there has been a noticeable increase in public transportation with
more regular schedules. This is critically important when it comes to connecting local people to key
services such as education and healthcare – many hospitals are far away from poorer districts, but now
                                                     15
ambulances can easily access these areas in much faster time. In addition, the level of tourism to local
museums and other attractions has also increased as a result of better connectivity.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Refer to Summary of Beneficiary Survey in Annex 5.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The government continues to support the improvement of first, second and third class roads outside the
TEN-T road network and this is evidenced by the sustainability goals listed in the draft Road Sector
Strategy. The Strategy stresses the importance of achieving a sustainable road network by 2020 and
includes proportionate budget allocations for rehabilitation and maintenance of the secondary road
network, as well as the motorways and first class roads. However, there are still concerns that newly
rehabilitated road sections under this project will not be adequately maintained post-construction, due to
inefficient road management and inadequate budgetary allocation. Institutional strengthening of RIA
should continue until the RMS is fully operational and road maintenance / rehabilitation programming
capabilities are optimized. In terms of road safety, RIA has certainly taken a step in the right direction, but
there is still plenty more to be done in terms of governance and planning of road safety activities within
the ministry and RIA.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the Project was well prepared and reflected the government’s priorities at the time of appraisal.
The selection of the road sections were appropriately justified based on sound economic criteria and needs
assessment of the country. The inclusion of the Road Management System (RMS) and Performance
Based Contracts (PBC) for the first time was very valuable in introducing international best practices in
road management. However, the dissemination of RMS training could have been better structured and
targeted at technical and managerial staff to ensure proficient competency and manager “buy-in” to the
new system and to manage the risk of the high staff rotation in RIA. The inclusion of the road safety
component was also very important and was appropriately focused on removing trouble road safety
locations (black spots) from the network and training road safety auditors in international best practices –
as a result this had a very positive impact on the road safety improvements undertaken on the completed
road section under the Project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank team conducted regular supervision missions and maintained close motoring of the civil works.
Since there were very limited issues with construction quality and environmental safeguards throughout
the Project, the quality of supervision of civil works component can be considered satisfactory. There
were some shortfalls in the supervision of the institutional component, especially in relation to the
effectiveness of the RMS. Aide-memoires stated that the RMS was full operational and being used for
road programming, when in fact this was not used for management decision-making. However, all the
necessary equipment, software and training were in place and data collection is ongoing. The Bank
supervision was very responsive to the government when they asked to include new priorities. Aide-
memoire and ISRs were prepared on time and with high quality.

                                                      16
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The satisfactory rating reflects the satisfactory rating for quality at entry and the satisfactory rating for
Project supervision.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The majority of the Project implementation delays were as a result of the government’s austerity measures
and constant restructurings within RIA management. Firstly, the government had to deal with the global
financial crises in the rest of the country and it could be justified to hold back spending while the
economy stabilizes. However, the government’s commitment towards first, second and third class roads
outside of TEN-T became less of a priority as the Project matured, leading to excessive budget cuts within
RIA and inability to disburse the counterpart funds. Secondly, the constant restructurings within RIA
were causing bottlenecks in decision making and delayed procurement considerably throughout the
Project. It took almost two months, after the Government’s request for restructuring, to reach a common
understanding among the various stakeholders in Bulgaria on the scope of the technical assistance to
support EU Funds absorption to be provided under the proposed project restructuring. In addition, the
World Bank restructuring process both on Bank side and review process from MoF took another two
months, which left very limited time for completing the approval process in 2011. This had a detrimental
effect on the Project because additional consultancy services envisioned in the restructuring were already
delayed by 6 months and some had to be canceled due to changes in the business environment.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
One of the most significant shortcomings of RIA was in relation to the cancelation of the consultancy
services and automatic traffic counters under the RMS. RIA was faced with management changes, loss of
employees and budgetary constraints throughout the Project and most of this was out of their control.
However, the agency could have been more proactive, especially in relation to timely decision making
regarding procurement and clear administrative steps.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The moderately satisfactory rating reflects the moderately satisfactory rating for government performance
and the moderately satisfactory rating for RIA performance.

6. Lessons Learned
• Project should have included the design and supervision under the activities funded by the loan. The
  delays at the beginning (which required the 24 month extension) were due to delays by RIA in hiring
  their own consultants to do the designs, review the designs, which delayed launching of procurement of
  works; and in hiring the supervision consultants, which at times delayed contractors’ mobilization.
• Bureaucratic processing timeline. The restructuring under this Project and the completion of
  government approval procedure was completed just 3 days before project closing and almost
  jeopardized the achievement of the development objective – this needs to be mitigated with clear
  commitments in advance.


                                                     17
• Organizational stability of the Borrower. Due to the extensive changes within RIA’s project
  implementation unit, it would have been advantageous to strengthen the unit to independently manage
  Bank projects and its own resources without political interference.
• Early training on FIDIC & World Bank procurement guidelines. Since this was the first road sector
  investment loan by IBRD, there should have been training on implementing the contractual terms of
  FIDIC at the very start of the Project. There were many bottlenecks in procurement procedures at the
  commencement and the end of construction, and in regards to warranty deadlines. It was often difficult
  to find a common ground between the contractual terms of FIDIC and Bulgarian legislation Budgetary
  constraints. There needs to be long-term financial commitments from the Borrower at the signing of
  the loan to mitigate the risks of budget cutbacks for the project.
• Adopting a twin-training approach when implementing RMS for the first time. Despite the
  implementation of RMS hardware and software, the system is still not fully effective because there are
  limited trained personnel and lack of management support. It would have been advantageous for the
  consultant’s TOR to have included incremental training at both technical and managerial levels. This
  twin-training approach would ensure that (i) technical capacity in operating the system is optimized
  and (ii) management can take ownership of the system and fully utilize it for multi-year programming
  of maintenance and rehabilitation.
• Road safety value engineering at the design review stage is very effective in enhancing road safety
  and adding additional socio-economic benefits to projects. Many of the completed road sections
  under the Project incorporated road safety improvements such as re-designed junction layouts, crossing
  points and traffic calming measures. The beneficiaries of the Project have expressed their gratitude for
  these additional measures and have already notices a reduction in road accidents.
• Adopting hybrid rehabilitation and maintenance contracts using both traditional and performance-
  based contracting methodology. Since the majority of Bulgaria’s Class II and III roads are in bad
  condition, RIA considers that it is difficult to adopt only maintenance PBC over large areas. However,
  it would be advantageous to adopt area-based hybrid contracts which include traditional (input-based)
  methodology for rehabilitation, followed by PBC methodology for summer and winter maintenance.
  However, these contracts are long in duration (5 – 10 years) and therefore very dependent on long-term
  budget allocation – therefore financial commitment is a perquisite.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower’s ICR has been provided in Annex 7. Technical comments on the draft ICR were received
from RIA and Ministry of Finance and reflected in accordingly.
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                                   18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (EUR Million with VAT)
                                              Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of
                Components
                                               (EUR millions)       (EUR millions)          Appraisal
1. Rehabilitation of selected roads                140.15                94.604                68%
2. Institutional development                        2.41                  2.175                90%
3. Road safety                                      1.44                  0.206                14%
                        Total Baseline Cost        144.00                97.146                67%
                                                                                                -
Physical Contingencies
                                                     0.00                 0.00
                                                                                                 -
Price Contingencies
                                                     0.00                 0.00
                       Total Project Costs         144.00                97.146                67%
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.00                 0.00                  -
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00                 0.00                  -
               Total Financing Required            144.00                97.146                67%




(b) Financing
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of                                   Percentage of
              Source of Funds                                  Estimate        Estimate
                                               Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                             (EUR millions) (EUR millions)
Borrower                                                        54.00           20.150         37%
International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                                 90.00            76.835        85%
Development




                                                      19
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                        Indicators
                                                                 Status at
         Output                         Original    First RS                                Remarks
                            Baseline                             Closing 7
                                         Target    04/14/2011
Component 1
      Number of
                                                                                 Successfully achieved. Formally
 kilometers of Class I
                              0 km       174 km      117 km      117.24km      revised target reduced as a result of
  roads rehabilitated
                                                                                          restructuring.
   under the Project
      Number of
                                                                                 Successfully achieved. Formally
kilometers of Class II
                              0 km       138 km      127 km       130 km       revised target reduced as a result of
  roads rehabilitated
                                                                                          restructuring.
   under the Project
      Number of
                                                                                 Successfully achieved. Formally
  kilometers of Class
                              0 km       138 km       63 km      62.89 km      revised target reduced as a result of
III roads rehabilitated
                                                                                          restructuring.
   under the Project
Component 2
 Consultant Services
                                                        260           0        This activity was canceled because
      for Project
                            0 staff-                cumulative   cumulative      the consultancy services were
Management support                           -
                            months                     staff-       staff-     carried out in-house by consultant,
    for operational
                                                      months       months                   JASPERS.
       programs
                                                                               This activity was partially achieved
                                                                                through the 18 month contract of
  Consultant and                                         24           18
                                                                                 the Highway Advisor procured
advisory services for       0 staff-                cumulative   cumulative
                                             -                                   under this Project. It should be
     road sector            months                     staff-       staff-
                                                                               noted additional advisory services
    management                                        months       months
                                                                               were carried out in-house by RIA’s
                                                                                         local consultant.
Project management                                                               This was completed with RIA’s
 manuals reviewed,             No            -         Yes           No           own funds under the in-house
 finalized and in use                                                                 consultancy contract
      Studies on
 institutional set up,
human resources and
                               No            -         Yes           No        This activity was canceled by RIA.
   development of
 competencies in the
  sector carried out
 Works (W), Goods
                                                                                 The actual target was actually
(G), and Consulting
                                                                                 achieved. The number of civil
    Services (CS)           0 (W), 0     9 (W); 8
                                                                  6 (W); 13    works contracts was reduced from
 contracts processed         (G), 0       (G); 2        -
                                                                 (G); 5 (CS)   9 to 6 as part of the restructuring;
   and managed by             (CS)         (CS)
                                                                               however this was not reflected in
     Management
                                                                                the revised results framework.
      Consultant
Training received by
    RIA staff from
                                0         1,700       2,200        2,774             Successfully achieved
     management
Consultant (in staff-




   7
       Values are obtained from Borrower’s Report



                                                                  20
       hours)

Updating of road data
                                                       It is expected that this will be
  for Class I roads (%
                         0%   100%   -     80%        achieved within 6 months of the
   of total length per
                                                               project closing.
          year)
Updating of road data
                                                      Due to insufficient budget, not all
 for Class II roads (%
                         0%   50%    -     25%         road data is being collected for
   of total length per
                                                                Class II roads
          year)
Updating of road data
                                                      Due to insufficient budget, not all
for Class III roads (%
                         0%   15%    -     10%         road data is being collected for
   of total length per
                                                               Class III roads
          year)
                                                          Only partially implemented
 Implementation and                                   because automatic traffic counters
Effective use of Road                                   were not procured. In terms of
                         No   Yes    -   Partially
Management System                                    effectiveness, the RMS is not being
       by RIA                                          used to its full potential (refer to
                                                         Section 2.2 for more details).
                                                     Although RIA has prepared annual
                                                          and three-year programs for
  Rolling Multi-year
                                                           maintenance, they are not
road maintenance and
                         No   Yes    -   Partially       developing rolling multi-year
    rehabilitation
                                                     programs using the newly procured
 program established
                                                          Road Management System
                                                                 (Indicator 13).
 Capacity of RIA to                                  Three PBC contracts were prepared
    manage road                                          under the Project. RIA made
maintenance: number                                     additional modifications to the
                         0     3     -        3
    of area-wide                                      contracts and eventually tendered
    maintenance                                       two PBC covering two motorway
 contracts prepared                                                 sections.
Component 3
Road safety strategy
                         No   Yes    -     Yes         This was successfully achieved.
 and plans prepared




                                         21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
At appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis (CBA) was conducted for the rehabilitation of all road sections to be
included in the project. The evaluation was done with the Highway Development and Management Model
(HDM-4), which simulates life-cycle predictions of road deterioration, road works effects and their costs
and road user costs, and provides economic decision criteria for road construction and maintenance works.
HDM-4 analyses projects by computing costs and benefits of different investment options in terms of
savings in road maintenance costs, vehicle operating costs, travel time costs and accident costs. The
analysis was done for an evaluation period of 15 years and a discount rate of 12 percent.

The appraisal CBA evaluated 30 road sections totaling about 450 km of class I, II and III national roads in
different regions of Bulgaria that were grouped into 9 lots. The 2005 traffic ranged from 500 Average
Annual Daily Traffic (AADT), in vehicles per day, for low traffic roads to about 8,500 AADT for high
traffic ones, with a weighted average of 1,979 AADT. The traffic composition varied across the regions
and for different road classes. An annual 4 percent increase in traffic has been assumed for all vehicle
types in the appraisal analysis. The estimated total cost of the rehabilitation works was US$186.7 million,
including VAT, which corresponds to about US$450,000 per km. The economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) for the project roads varied between 13.1 and 134.4 percent with a weighted average of 25.1
percent. All individual road sections resulted having an EIRR higher than 12 percent under the project
scenario. Table 1 presents the project roads analyzed at appraisal.
                                     Table 1: Project Roads Analyzed at Appraisal
                                                                                     Total   Average   Estimated   Appraisal
                                                                                    Length   AADT        Cost       EIRR
Lot              Section   Road       Site and Sections                              (km)     (2005)   (M US$)       (%)
Lot 1               1      II-11      Vidin - Lom (km 0+000 - km 10+872)            10.87      2,291                 47.7
North-western       2      II-11      Vidin - Lom (km 14+010 - km 15+990)            1.98      2,291                 22.4
                    3      II-11      Vidin - Lom (km 31+873 - km 41+914)           10.04       605                  19.8
                    4      II-11      Lom - Kovachitsa (km 49+691 - km 57+691)       8.00       962                  13.1
                    5      II-11      Lom - Kovachitsa (km 68+279 - km 71+979)       3.70       630                  15.4
                    6      II-11      Lom - Gigen (km102+200 - km104+750)            2.55      1,754                 36.3
Lot 1 Total                                                                         37.14      1,347     10.1        27.4
Lot 2 North-
western            7        II-15     Vratsa - Oriahovo (km 0+000 - km 2+895)        2.89     5,490                  36.6
and Central                           Guliantsi - Milkovitsa (km 174+864 - km
north              8        II-11     196+147)                                      21.28     1,261                  25.1
                                      Pleven - Troian - Karnare (km 46+179 -km
                   9        II-35     66+500)                                       20.32     4,164                  14.9
                                                                                    44.49     1,431      19.4        21.2
Lot 3              10       II-23     Rousse - Silistra (km 94+200 - km 116+564)    22.36     1,737                  36.7
North- eastern     11       II-51     Popovo - Dralfa (km 52+149 - km 63+790)       11.64     2,298                  73.7
                                      Dralfa - Chudomir (km 70+700 - km
                   12       II-51     75+000)                                        4.30     1,974                  47.0
                                      Varna - Dobrich District border (km 4+000 -
                   13       II-29     km 5+400)                                      1.40     8,547                  58.4
                                      Varna - b.r. Dobrich (km 7+058 - km
                   14       II-29     10+400)                                        3.34     8,547                  58.4
                                      Varna - off-site road Dobrich (km 11+500 -
                   15       II-29     km 16+200)                                    4.08      6,780                  32.1
                   16      III-235    Glavinitsa - Zafirovo (km 25+200 - 39+117)    13.92      897                   56.7
Lot 3 Total                                                                         61.04     2,535      24.9        50.4
Lot 4
Southwestern       17        I-6      Sofia - Pirdop (km133+731 - km 189+600)       55.87     3,277                  19.6
Lot 4 Total                                                                         55.87     3,277      31.8        19.6




                                                               22
Lot 5 Central                            Pirdop - Karlovo - Kalofer (km 242+900 -
south                18          I-6     km 264+925)                                       22.03               4,804                        26.7
                                 III-    Plovdiv - Biala Cherkva - Kosovo (km
                     19         8604     0+000 - km 12+000)                                    3.00            1,319                        134.3
                                         b.r. Chirpan - Zetovo (km 0+000 - km
                     20        III-663   4+700)                                                4.70            818                          27.5
                                         Varbica - Skobelevo (b.r. Chipan - Zetevo)
                                         (km 0+000 - km 11+800) and bridge repair
                     21        III-807   over Maritsa river                                11.80                818                         27.5
Lot 5 Total                                                                                41.53               2,969         17.0           34.8
Lot 6 North-                             Shumen - Preslav (km120+859 - km
eastern              22          I-7     139+000)                                          18.14               2,116                        17.6
                                         Preslav - Varbitsa (km 146+000 - km
                     23          I-7     147+700)                                              1.70            886                          15.3
                                         Preslav - Varbitsa (km 165+250 - km
                     24          I-7     176+200)                                          10.95               1,097                        30.7
Lot 6 Total                                                                                30.79               1,686         12.5           22.1
Lot 7                                    Pernik - Strezimirovtsi (km 43+300 to km
Southwestern         25         II-63    52+300)                                               9.00            768                          16.3
                                 III-    Filipovtsi - Glogovitsa-Trun (km 0+000 - km
                     26         6301     12+000)                                           12.00               600                          13.5
                                         Dragoman -Vrabcha (km 29+000 - km
                     27        III-813   56+700)                                           27.70               500                          13.5
Lot 7                                                                                      48.70               574           13.9           14.0
Lot 8                                    G. Delchev - Pirin village (km 0+000 - km
Southwestern         28        III-198   33+590)                                           33.60               726                          21.3
                                         Petrich - border check-point – FYR
                     29        III-198   Macedonia (km 60+200 - km 91+603)                 31.40               2,105                        24.0
Lot 8 Total                                                                                65.00               1,392         23.3           22.6
                                         Burgas - Marinka - Zvezdetz - Malko
Lot 9                                    Tarnovo - border check point-Turkey (km
Southeastern         30          I-9     247+135 - km 309+135)                             65.00               1,242                        13.7
Lot 9 Total                                                                                65.00               1,242         33.9           13.7
TOTAL                                                                                      449.56              1,979         186.7          25.1
The ex-post economic evaluation considered only the lots implemented under the project, for which actual
rehabilitation costs were obtained. Table 2 presents the estimated cost per km at appraisal and the actual
cost per km for the 6 road sections. On average the actual rehabilitation costs per km are 78 percent of the
estimated costs at appraisal.
                     Table 2: Estimated and Actual Costs for Lots Implemented with the Project
                                                                                                                               Cost per
                                                       Estimated Cost                             Actual Cost                  km
                                                                    Cost per                                      Cost per
                                                  Cost    Length      km                Cost          Length        km          Actual per
      Lot                                       (US$ M)    (km)    (US$/km)           (US$ M)          (km)      (US$/km)       Estimated
      Lot 1 North-western region                  10.1     27.4     367,895             11.9           36.6       324,409         0.88
      Lot 2 North- western and Central north
      region                                     19.4       44.5         437,132       17.3           47.3        364,897            0.83
      Lot 3 North- eastern region                24.9       61.0         407,733       17.5           46.1        379,011            0.93
      Lot 4 Southwestern region                  31.8       55.9         569,608       18.7           55.4        337,274            0.59
      Lot 8 Southwestern region                  23.3       65.0         357,785       21.1           62.9        335,311            0.94
      Lot 9 Southeastern region                  33.9       65.0         520,985       22.1           61.8        357,641            0.69
      Total                                      143.3      318.8        449,699       108.5          310.2       349,835            0.78
An evaluation of the annual traffic growth rate observed on 14 project roads from 2005 to 2010 shows
that the average annual traffic growth rate was on average about 2 percent per year, which is half of what
was estimated at appraisal. The average current traffic composition of the project roads is 70 percent cars,
2 percent buses and 28 percent trucks. An evaluation of the roughness measurements done after the
rehabilitation of the road works shows that the roughness of the roads after the rehabilitation is on average
about 1.3 IRI, m/km, which is slightly lower than what was estimated at appraisal 1.5 IRI, m/km. The ex-
                                                                    23
post economic evaluation was done using the HDM-4 model adopting the same evaluation structure done
at appraisal, but considering actual rehabilitation cost, roughness after road works and traffic growth rate
for the 2005 to 2010 period. Table 3 presents the ex-post economic evaluation results per road section.
The ex-post EIRR for the project roads varies between 15.9 and 86.0 percent with a weighted average of
28.3 percent. All individual road sections have an EIRR higher than 12 percent under the project scenario.
                                  Table 3: Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Results
                                                                                                                 Ex-
                                                                                               Total   Actual   Post
                                                                                              Length    Cost    EIRR
                                                                                                        (M
 Lot                    Section    Road        Site and Sections                              (km)     US$)     (%)
 Lot 1                     1       II-11       Vidin - Lom (km 0+000 - km 10+924)             10.9              56.5
 North-western             2       II-11       Vidin - Lom (km 14+010 - km 16+115)             2.1              26.6
                           3       II-11       Vidin - Lom (km 31+873 - km 43+500)            11.6              23.8
                           4       II-11       Lom - Kovachitsa (km 49+691 - km 57+747)        8.1              15.9
                           5       II-11       Lom - Kovachitsa (km 68+279 - km 70+223)        1.9              17.9
                           6       II-11       Lom - Gigen (km102+200 - km104+175)             2.0              44.2
 Lo1 Total                                                                                    36.6      11.9    32.8
 Lot 2 North- western     7        II-15       Vratsa - Oriahovo (km 0+000 - km 3+028)         3.0              40.8
                                               Gulyntsi - Milkovitsa (km 174+867 - km
 and Central north        8        II-11       196+144)                                        21.3             28.7
                                               Pleven - Troyan - Karnare (km 46+105 -km
                          9        II-35       66+410)                                         20.3             16.7
                                               Passage throuth Gigen (km 172+164 - km
                          10       II-11       174+867)                                        2.7              16.7
                                                                                               47.3     17.3    23.6
 Lot 3                    11       II-23       Isperih - Dulovo (km 94+200 - km 116+445)       22.2             42.9
 North- eastern           12       II-51       Popovo - Dralfa (km 52+420 - km 63+745)         11.3             86.0
                          13       II-51       Dralfa - Chudomir (km 70+700 - km 75+000)       4.3              55.6
                          14       II-29       Varna - Dobrich (km 7+057 - km 10+419)          3.4              62.4
                          15       II-29       Varna - Dobrich (km 16+124 - km 20+470)         4.3              34.7
                                   II-49 and
                          16       II-51       Roundabout km 11+888 Road II-49                 0.5              34.7
 Lot 3 Total                                                                                   46.1     17.5    55.2
 Lot 4 Southwestern       17       I-6         Sofia - Pirdop (km133+895 - km 189+292)         55.4             21.6
 Lot 4 Total                                                                                   55.4     18.7    21.6
                                               G. Delchev - Pirin village (km 2+634 - km
 Lot 8 Southwestern       18       III-198     33+542)                                         30.9             24.8
                                               Petrich - border check-point – FYR Macedonia
                          19       III-198     (km 60+200 - km 92+185)                         32.0             28.6
 Lot 8 Total                                                                                   62.9     21.1    26.7
                                               Burgas - Marinka - Zvezdetz - Malko Tarnovo
                                               - border check point-Turkey (km 247+135 - km
 Lot 9 Southeastern       21       I-9         308+976)                                       61.8              16.6
 Lot 9 Total                                                                                  61.8     22.1     16.6
 TOTAL                                                                                        310.2    108.5    28.3
The ex-post economic evaluation results show that the project benefits are higher than the ones estimated
at appraisal due to the lower actual rehabilitation costs per km, despite the lower than expected annual
traffic growth rate measured from 2005 to 2010. Table 4 compares the appraisal EIRR and the ex-post
EIRR for the 6 lots implemented with project funds. The ex-post overall EIRR is 28.3 percent, which is
higher than the overall EIRR estimated at appraisal for the 6 lots (25.8 percent), indicating that the project
has a robust economic justification.




                                                               24
      Table 4: Appraisal and Ex-Post Economic
                 Evaluation Results
                                         Appraisal   Ex-Post
                                          EIRR        EIRR
Lot                                        (%)         (%)
Lot 1 North-western region                 27.4       32.8
Lot 2 North- western and Central north
region                                     21.2       23.6
Lot 3 North- eastern region                50.4       55.2
Lot 4 Southwestern region                  19.6       21.6
Lot 8 Southwestern region                  22.6       26.7
Lot 9 Southeastern region                  13.7       16.6
Total                                      25.8       28.3




                               25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
 (a) Task Team members
               Names                                 Title                     Unit       Responsibility
Lending
 Doncho Petrov Barbalov           Operations Officer                        ECSIE-HIS
 Bogdan Constantin Constantinescu Senior Financial Management Specialist      ECSO3
 Mohammed Dalil Essakali          Senior Infrastructure Economist             AFTTR
 Blaga Djourdjin                  Procurement Specialist                      ECSO2
 Ruxandra Maria Floroiu           Senior Environmental Engineer               EASER
 Vladislav Krasikov               Senior Procurement Specialist               EASR1
 Mirela Mart                      Consultant                                 ECSOQ
 Antti P. Talvitie                Consultant                                  ECSTR
Terje Wolden                      Consultant                                  ECSTR
Romain Pison                      Junior Professional Associate               ECSTR
 Julia Alexandrova Tomova         Junior Professional Associate             ECSIE-HIS
Supervision/ICR
Rakesh Tripathi                   ICR TTL and Primary Author                  ECSTR
Michael Butler                    JPA and ICR Secondary Author                ECSTR
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao           Senior Highway Engineer                     ECSTR
 Bogdan Constantin Constantinescu Senior Financial Management Specialist      ECSO3
 Juderica Zilla Josephine Dias    Senior Executive Assistant                 DECDG
 Orlin M. Dikov                   Senior Operations Officer                   ECSTR
 Blaga Djourdjin                  Procurement Specialist                      ECSO2
 Albena Alexandrova Samsonova Program Assistant                              ECCBG
 Ziad Salim EL Nakat              Transport Specialist                        MNSTI
 Ruxandra Maria Floroiu           Senior Environmental Engineer               EASER
 Henry G. R. Kerali               Country Director                            ECCU3
 Alejandro Lopez Martinez         Junior Professional Associate               ECSTR
 Eolina Petrova Milova            Operations Officer                         ECSUW
 Sylvia Nikolova Stoynova         Operations Officer                         ECCBG
 Jukka-Pekka Strand               Young Professional                           YPP
 Antti P. Talvitie                Consultant                                  ECSTR
 Ivelina Todorova Taushanova      Communications Officer                     ECCBG
 Toma Alexandrov Yanakiev         E T Consultant                              ECSTR
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                      USD Thousands (including travel
                                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                                                 and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY06                                                                                38.09
   FY07                                                                               224.39
   FY08                                                                                 4.45
                                   Total:                                             266.93
Supervision/ICR
   FY06                                                                                 0.00
   FY07                                                                                 0.00
   FY08                                                                               100.35
                                   Total:                                             100.35

                                                    26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

As part of the ICR mission the World Bank team conducted site visits to four out of six of the completed
lots to assess the quality of construction and also take an opportunity to interview some of the local
people living and working near the rehabilitated road sections. The overall reaction from the beneficiaries
was positive and they were very appreciative of the investments for the tertiary class road network. The
Bank team was informed that the existing project roads were in poor condition and in much need of
rehabilitation. The completed road sections have dramatically improved the livelihood of (i) road users, in
terms of driving comfort and vehicle operating costs; (ii) local businesses, as a result of improved trade
and connectivity; and (iii) local inhabitants due to improved accessibility to key health & education
services and better road safety as results of traffic calming measure in populated location.

The residents of Svetlen Village (Lot 3) confirmed that roads safety has improved significantly since the
rehabilitation of the road. The reconstruction comprised a redesign of the main road junction into a Y-
junction which has prevented many car accidents due to its safer layout and traffic calming potential. “In
the past many speeding (and drunk) drivers crashed into the church yard, but after the road rehabilitation
there were no reported accidents in the village”, several residents testified. Another major improvement
according to the people of the village is the renovated sidewalks, which are highly appreciated as this is
the latest new infrastructure in the village for many years. Furthermore, residents can now cross the road
safely as result of modified speed bump crossings, which have been very effective at reducing the speed
of incoming traffic.

According to citizens of Varna the renovated road (Lot 3) has significantly improved ride quality and
shortened the commuting time between Varna and Dobrich to 15 minutes. Travel time was shortened by
at least 30 minutes for citizens of Malko Tarnovo (Lot 9). According to local residents, even public
transport is faster now and has made its schedules more regular. This is crucially important when it comes
to ambulances because there is no hospital in Malko Tarnovo and often the residents go by ambulance to
Bourgas, the regional center. “There are three roads connecting our town with other towns, but this is our
main road”, Silvia Baleva from Malko Tarnovo says. She works as tourist guide in the local museum and
testifies that the number of tourists has doubled since the reconstruction of the road, benefiting numerous
local businesses.




                                                    27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                          28
                               REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                          ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY




          Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                      ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

                  PROJECT ON REHABILITATION OF THE ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
                                 (IBRD Loan No.: 4865 - BUL)


                              CONTRIBUTION OF THE BORROWER
                     REPORT ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION OUTCOMES




                                                          JUNE 2013




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project    29
                                    REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                                 ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY



          Contents

          I.     Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 31
          II. Description of the Project – Objectives of the Project, Main Indicators, Information on the
          Implementation of the Project ............................................................................................................... 32
          III    Environment .................................................................................................................................. 39
          IV      Indicators Achieved ..................................................................................................................... 39
          V        Challenges / Lessons Learnt .................................................................................. 39
          VI      Conclusions .................................................................................................................................. 40
          VII       Support on Behalf of the Bank ................................................................................................... 40
          VIII      Appendices ................................................................................................................................. 40
          Appendix 1 ............................................................................................................................................ 40
          Appendix 2 ............................................................................................................................................ 43




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project                    30
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          I. Introduction
        The Republic of Bulgaria is a European country, located in the Eastern part of the Balkan
        Peninsular, which takes 22 % of its territory. To the North it borders with Romania, to the
        South – with Greece and Turkey, to the West with the Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of
        Macedonia and Serbia and to the East – with the Black Sea. The territory of Bulgaria exceeds
        110 square kilometers and according to the 2011 census, the population of the country is
        almost 7.4 million people. The economy of the country is a highly open market economy,
        which according to external evaluation occupies the 70th place in the world. It is relatively
        industrialized, with a private sector developed at an average level and a small number of
        preserved strategic state enterprises. According to its economic development today, Bulgaria
        falls within the group of the developing countries. Regardless of its economic development in
        the past few years, Bulgaria still has the lowest per capita GDP in the European Union.
        The transport location of Bulgaria is especially favorable. It is an important crossroad,
        connecting Central Europe, the Middle East and the Mediterranean.
        Five out of the ten Trans-European transport corridors - № 4, № 7 (the Danube River), № 8,
        № 9 and №10, pass through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which occupies a
        strategic geographical position within Europe and on the Balkan Peninsular, and three of them
        - № 4, № 7 and № 10, play an important role in the integration of the EU transport network
        with that of neighboring geographical regions and continents – Asia, Africa and the Near East,
        as well as in the economic opening of the EU towards the markets and the raw materials of the
        East.
        The road network in Bulgaria consists of republican road network and municipal road
        network, the division is being done on the basis of the administrative and economic
        significance of the roads, as well as their function within the transportation system. The
        republican road network consists of roads which ensure the transport connections of national
        importance and routes of state interest. It has been developed with sufficient density but its
        state and maintenance level are unsatisfactory. At the moment, a number of programs and
        projects, funded with European funds and loans from IBRD and EIB are in place, their
        purpose being the construction of new and the improvement of the existing infrastructure.
        The total length of the republican road network in Bulgaria is 19 602 km, of which 541 km of
        highways and 2 975 km I Class roads, 4035 km II Class roads and 12 051 km III Class roads.
        The Ministry of Regional Development manages the republican and municipal road
        networks in Bulgaria.
        The Road Infrastructure Agency is directly responsible for the Republican network, as a
        second level budget spending unit under the Ministry of Regional Development. It consists of
        Central Administration (Headquarters), comprised of twelve Directorates and specialized
        units, represented by twenty seven Regional Road Departments and a Central Institute of
        Road Technologies, National and European Norms and Standards. The Road Infrastructure
        Agency is managed by a Management Board, which comprises of a Chair and two Board
        members. The total number of employees within the Central Administration and the
        specialized units reaches 1523 people.




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   31
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          The Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project is the first project in the Road Sector in
          Bulgaria, funded through a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and
          Development and funds from the republican budget. The total amount of the project is Euro
          144 million. According to the Loan Agreement signed on September 19, 2007, the deadline
          for the implementation of the project is no later than June 30, 2011. Through the
          amendment of the Loan Agreement, ratified on June 22, 2011 and promulgated on June 24,
          2011, the deadline for the completion of the project was extended to June 30, 2013. The
          financial scheme was also changed.


          II. Description of the Project – Objectives of the Project, Main
              Indicators, Information on the Implementation of the Project
          II.1 Project Objectives
          The goal of the project is to support the Republic of Bulgaria in reducing the expenditures
          on road accidents through improvement of the state and quality of the road network in the
          country in the first years after its EU accession. The objectives of the project can be met
          through:
          а.     Improving the condition of roads Class I, II and III and the ensuing reduction in the
          expenses of the road users.
          b.     Enhancing RIA capacity to stimulate the policy on efficient planning and efficient
          management of the programs on road maintenance, rehabilitation and construction.
          c.     Assisting the Republic of Bulgaria in the development of the Road Safety Strategy
          and identification of the priority activities on improvement of the road safety.
          II.2 Project Components
          Component 1 – Rehabilitation of selected roads;
          Component 2 – Institutional development;
          Component 3 – Road safety.
          II.3 Indicators
          II.3.1 Outcomes
           •   Indicator 1 – Improving the condition of the roads which have to be rehabilitated under
               the project;
           •   Indicator 2 – Reducing operating expenditures for vehicles by at least 10 % along the
               roads, which have to be rehabilitated.
          II.3.2 Intermediate Results

           •   Total number of rehabilitated roads Class one, two and three;
           •   Updating the roads Class one, two and three data;
           •   Number of contracts signed;
           •   Training of RIA’s team of experts;



RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   32
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

           •   Introduction and efficient use of the Road Management System;
           •   Developing a system on preventive maintenance of roads;
           •   Raising the qualification of RIA experts in the area of road infrastructure maintenance;
           •   Advisory services to support the management of projects for operational programs;
           •   Advisory services for the management of the Road Sector;
           •   Guidelines on the management of projects, reviewed, completed and used;
           •   Studies conducted on the institutional structure, human resources and development of
               competencies within the sector;
           •   Road safety strategies and plans developed.
          II.4 Financial framework
          The initial total value of the Project was calculated at EURO 144 Million. The participation
          of the Bank was carried out through a Loan Agreement for Euro 90 000 000 of September
          19, 2007, with the partnership of the national budget in the amount of Euro 54 000 000 and
          duration until June 30, 2011. With the amendment of the Loan Agreement, ratified by law
          on June 22, 2011 and promulgated on June 24, 2011, the deadline for the absorption of the
          loan was extended to June 30, 2013 and the share of the co-funding from the national budget
          was reduced.

          II.5 Project Implementation
          II.5.1 Component 1 – implementation
          Within the scope of Component 1, part 1, the rehabilitation of 450 km of roads Class one,
          two and three is included, grouped by regions (counties) into nine lots (Attachment 1 –
          Table 1). Assignments for the design of the specific sites were approved in 2006 and the
          procurement tenders for the selection of designers were carried out in 2007; the projects
          were developed in the period 2008-2009.
          International Competitive Biddings were conducted to select a Contractor for the
          construction works. By the end of 2009 and in early 2010 Contracts were signed for the
          nine lots.

          After the initial positive start in the implementation of the Component with the start of Lot 1
          and 2 at the end of 2008, and lot 3 by the beginning of 2009, the Project was affected quite
          adversely by the raving global financial crisis.
           Construction works for Lots 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 for which contracts were signed in late 2009
          and early 2010, had to be delayed until 2011 and their completion deadlines extended.

          These actions were necessitated by the fact that the funds allocated through the 2010 State
          Budget Act for State Investment Loans (SIL) managed by the Ministry of Regional
          Development (MRD), respectively RIA were spent mostly for payment of 2009 obligations
          under SIL. The Bidding procedures for Lots 5, 6 and 7 for selection of construction
          supervision, in compliance with the Bulgarian legislation were cancelled and delayed due to
          unsecured financial resources and the structural changes that occurred, which impeded


RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   33
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          additionally their start-up and implementation. While preparing the amendment of the Loan
          Agreement, Lots 5, 6 and 7 were cancelled. By June 30, 2009 only 8-9 % of the Loan
          proceeds were disbursed, which caused a delay in the overall program. The cumbersome and
          lengthy procedures for approval and coordination of certificates and invoices contribute in
          addition to these delays. Another problem ensuing from those are the delayed payments to
          contractors. The Employer receives claims for unpaid sums under certificates, and incurs
          losses due to interest payments and indemnities. In 2011 and 2012 one by one were
          completed construction works for lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 and 9.
          Due to all these reasons stated in the Amendment to the Loan Agreement, extending the
          deadline for project completion was also included a change in the financial payment scheme
          and restructuring of Component 1, as the scope of the rehabilitated roads was reduced to 307
          km (Attachment 1 – Table 2).

          The initial indicative value of the lots amounting to BGN 206 770 347.60 with VAT, as
          stated in the Procurement Plan to the Loan Agreement 4865-BUL, has not been achieved.
          The value of the signed contracts under the rehabilitation component amounts to BGN 142
          886 368,61, VAT excluded. After the end of construction works and following the one year
          defect liability period, in compliance with the contract terms, the total amount disbursed for
          the lots is BGN 148 492 514,89, VAT excluded (Attachment 1 – Table 3).
          The increased prices of construction contracts are due mainly to:

          •      Increased volume of the envisaged types of works because of the lengthy period for
          preparation of design documentation until the actual start-up of actual implementation,
          which resulted in deterioration of the condition of the sections selected for rehabilitation and
          increased volumes compared to those planned in the BoQs.
          •     Additional works included following the provisions of sub-clause 13.1 „Change
          order” of the terms of contract, due to the need to enhance traffic organization and road
          safety, as well as homogeneity of road infrastructure at local level; (Attachment 1 – Table
          2б)
          •      Application of sub-clause 13.8 „Adjustment for cost changes”, as well as
          payment of Contractors’ claims under sub-clause 20.1 due to the longer period from the
          „Base date” to the implementation and accounting for Construction works, and the occurred
          economic changes that have brought about misbalance in adjustment coefficients.
          Because of the great public interest and importance of transport infrastructure for the
          economic development of South-western and South-eastern regions in the country the
          possibilities for implementation of the following was considered:

          •       By-pass of Gotse Delchev town from km 0+000 (km 86+135 on road II- 19 (to km
          2+560.10 to km 3+643.26 on road III – 198)), that will take away the transit traffic from the
          centre of the town, and also a section on road III- 198 „Vranya-Chuchuligovo-Marino
          pole“ from km 51+000 to km 61+163, by which the entire rehabilitation of road III – 198
          will be completed;


RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   34
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          •      By-pass road of Malko Tarnovo from км 2+603.73 to connection to road І-9 at km
          314+400=364+331.10 and rehabilitation of a section on road I – 9 from km 314+400
          border with the Republic of Turkey at km 318+566.
          In November 2012 the Project Implementation Unit with RIA jointly with the Consultant
          (Project Management Team), following the Guidelines for procurement of goods,
          construction works and non-consulting services under IBRD loans and IDA credits of May
          2004, as revised on 1 October 2006 and 1May 2010 , prepared Bidding Documents for
          selection of Contractors for construction works at sites: Lot 10 South-western region – By-
          pass of Gotse Delchev town and Road III- 198 „Vranya-Chuchuligovo-Marino pole “ and
          Lot 11 South-eastern region – By-pass of Malko Tarnovo and border with the Republic of
          Turkey from the Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project. The scope of the above-
          mentioned procedure was defined in the Procurement Plan enclosed with Loan Agreement
          4865-BUL with the latest updates of December 2012 under line W-11. The final version of
          the Bidding documents in the Bulgarian language was sent to the IBRD mission in Bulgaria
          for mandatory review. As a result RIA received the required “no-objection” as per para 1.11
          of the Guidelines for procurement of goods, construction works and non-consulting services
          under IBRD loans and IDA credits. In the course of preparation and coordination of the
          Invitation to bid in a National Competitive Bidding and the Decision for launching of a
          procurement procedure the Legal Directorate of the Project Contractor - RIA submitted a
          negative opinion, which coupled with the financial constraints of the 2012 budget and the
          short time remaining made their implementation impossible.

          The restrictions in the State Budget Act in the part relevant to externally financed projects
          through SILs and the observance of fiscal discipline in 2010, 2011 and 2012 resulted in
          Project delays and severely impeded RIA to implement Component 1 of the Loan
          Agreement by giving reasons to postpone construction works and extension of
          implementation in order to postpone payments for the next budget year.Within the scope of
          Component 1, part 2, an advisory service has been included, assisting RIA in the analysis
          and justification of works, review of projects, preparation of bidding documents and bid
          evaluation, as well as in the coordination and conducting of quality control of works and
          their supervision. The procedure for selection of a Consultant started in 2006, and a contract
          was signed with the awarded consultant – Mott Macdonald Ltd. on 24 July 2007, whose
          term was extended with the project restructuring.

          Throughout the consultancy period the Consultant has strictly performed its contractual
          obligations working in direct cooperation with the Project Implementation Unit with RIA
          and providing the required methodological guidance to the project contractor. In addition
          within the scope of these consultancy services a review was made of the training needs at
          RIA at both expert and management level and a training program was devised, which was
          implemented during the contract.

           In the process of project implementation, the following trainings of experts have been
          conducted at RIA:




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   35
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          •      Training of auditors on road safety – the course was carried out in June 2008 and
          was successfully passed by experts from RIA and other state institutions;
          •      Training to implement the contractual terms of Conditions of Contracts for
          construction of building and engineering works designed by the Employer, MDB
          harmonized edition, March 2006 which was carried out in 2012, and the participants in it
          were both at the expert and the managerial levels.
          II.5.2 Component 2 – implementation
          In support of the Project Implementer (RIA), The Ministry of transport and the Ministry of
          Regional Development purchased instrumentation for measuring, assessment and analysis of
          the road network condition. Due to differences with the Public Procurement Act the
          procedures were delayed. The instrumentation serves to support monitoring related to all
          operational programs financed through loan or national funds.

          The Road Management System developed under sub-component C-02 by Finroad Ltd. and
          the HDM-4 procured under sub-component G-09/1 cannot be used very efficiently due to
          the fact that it is not possible to export data from one system to another. That is why RIA is
          looking for options that would allow its full utilization.

          As a part of the implementation of sub-component С-02, Finroad Ltd. developed three pilot
          contracts for performance based road maintenance. They were used by RIA as a basis for
          signing of two maintenance contracts: Motorway Liulin and Motorway Trakia. The
          technical parameters of these contracts devised by Finroad Ltd. were used without
          adjustments, and the only changes made in these pilot contracts were related to their award
          due to the different public procurement rules in Bulgaria.

          A number of training events were carried out under sub-component С-05 for the employees
          of RIA at management and expert level in order to enhance their project management skills.
          A Table showing the implemented training events is attached to the report (Attachment –
          Table 4b)

          The task of the Consultant on main roads - sub-component C-11, was to strengthen the
          policies in Bulgaria’s road sector by providing strategic advice to top level politicians at
          MRD. In addition to these tasks included in the base contract, the Consultant provided to
          RIA its services in relation also to:
          -       Review of the long-term plan for support and development of RIA and MRD -
          preparation of processes, preparation of plan for implementation of recommendations;
          -       Review of the TORs for traffic counters financed under OP Regional Development
          and OP Transport, and thanks to the provided help, the procedure for procurement of traffic
          counters under OP Regional Development was successfully finalised and a contract was
          later signed with the selected contractor. A similar Public Procurement procedure is to be
          carried out under OP Transport;
          -        Review and good-quality implementation of projects signed under the MOU;


RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   36
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          -        Arrangement of a working visit of RIA employees in Lithuania.
          This working visit took place in September 2012 under the leadership of eng. Iliana
          Zaharieva - member of the Managing Board of RIA. Meetings were carried out at the
          scientific institute for transport and road infrastructure in Kaunas, the Lithuanian road
          administration and the state company „Problematika”. Good practices for road sector
          management and maintenance were exchanged.

          The procedure for selection of a Consultant to support management of projects under OP
          Transport and OP Regional Development - sub-component С-12, took place based on
          Quality-cots based selection method. That service was included in the project during its
          restructuring, which became effective on June 22, 2011 in relation to the MOU for extended
          cooperation for infrastructure development in the Republic of Bulgaria signed on August 10,
          2010 between the prime-minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and the President of IBRD (the
          World Bank).

          The main purpose of the consulting service was to guarantee the timely and effective
          utilization of available EU funds for the road sector in Bulgaria, while building up capacity
          at MRD and RIA in the field of road-transport project planning, programming and
          management.

          The development of the TOR began in summer 2010 and was completed by the end of the
          year. The focus was on the great delay in the preparation and the procedures for approval,
          contracting and implementation of key projects.

          Within the one year period between the establishment of the need to procure a Consultant
          (mid 2010) and the effective loan restructuring (mid 2011) the qualification of the
          employees at MRD and RIA administrations was improved as evidenced by the degree of
          absorption of road sector funds under OPT and OPRD. This is also confirmed by the
          successful start-up and already pretty advanced in their implementation road projects, as
          well as by the preparation of the key and alternative OPT projects for the period 2014-2020.

          RIA established that there is no more need of the activities within the scope of the task of
          the external Consultant focused on institutional strengthening of administrations and support
          for absorption of OP funds for the road sector and because of that cancelled the procedure.

          The procedure for selection of Supplier for a system of counters for continuous registration
          traffic registration and portable scales for measuring of axle weight-in-motion - position G-
          01, was launched in 2010. Two bids were submitted, which were thoroughly reviewed in
          terms of fullness and compliance of bidding documents, and in terms of price acceptability,
          technical and technological capacity of each bidder. The bidding procedure was cancelled
          because of the too high price offered, failure to receive a ‘no objection’ from the Bank for
          signing of contract as per Clause 39.1 of the Bidding documents and none of the bidders
          was selected as successful. In view of the needs of RIA to procure a system of counters for
          continuous registration traffic registration and portable scales for measuring of axle weight-
          in-motion preparations for starting up of new procedures began by having the Technical


RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   37
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          specification revised by the Consultant and experts of the Central Institute in view of
          expanding the scope of the procurement. The second procedure was launched in late 2012
          and five companies submitted their bids. The procedure was terminated once again due to
          Project budget cuts. The budget of the Project is consistent with the established financing
          for State Investment Loans of the Ministry of Regional Development and respectively the
          Road Infrastructure Agency. The preparation and initiation of the procedure in December
          2012 was based on the anticipated budget allocation for 2013. Since in respect to the date of
          signing a future contract with a contractor the budget parameters for State Investment Loans
          for 2013 have been reached, it is impossible to increase them and respectively to continue
          with the procedure.

          The third procedure for which no contract has been secured is (G-02/1 – Equipment for
          measuring the cohesion). The procedure was terminated because of lack of bids and
          inconsistency of the standards in the countries of origin of the manufacturing companies of
          the equipment in question with the European standards. The funds allocated to this position
          were distributed to other lines of the procurement plan. At the present moment RIA is still in
          need of such equipment and is exploring financing options.

          The Central Institute for Roads Technologies National and European Norm and Standards
          had a pressing need to buy software for traffic modeling (G-09/1.7.5) but due to the lack of
          time until the Project completion and disagreement with the Legal directorate at RIA in
          regard to the procedure for purchasing the software in question, the procedure did not take
          place.

          II.5.3 Component 3 – implementation
          Component 3 includes the implementation of a coordinated and integrated package of
          efficient, multisectoral road safety interventions, based on the best international practices
          and enhancing the institutional capacity of the agencies, responsible for improving the
          performance of the road safety, both of which shall be realized through ensuring
          construction works, technical advisory services, training, equipment and conducting of
          studies (Attachment 3 – Table 5).

          The general framework of the Component could be divided into three interrelated stages:
          first – preparation and study of the output data, second – analysis and proposals on how to
          solve the problems, identified in the first stage and third – implementation of the solutions.
          At the beginning of 2010, within the scope of sub-component С-10, a working group of
          experts was established at the Road Infrastructure Agency, whose purpose was to select 25
          road sections on the territory of the country, with high concentration of road accidents and
          to prepare the Terms of Reference and the call to bidders/invitation to tender, in order to
          select the Contractor for sub-components С-07 and С-08. The imposed budget restrictions
          that same year prevented the continuation of operations under Component 3 – Road Safety.
          After the restructuring of the loan in 2011, an update of the data on road accidents was
          updated, as well as the 25 road sections with a high concentration of road accidents. At the
          beginning of 2012, a bidding procedure was launched for the selection of Contractors for
          sub-component С-07 (local Consultant) and С-08 (international Consultant) and the


RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   38
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          contracts with the Consultants, selected through the Methodology for Selecting of
          Consultants, on the basis of their qualifications, were signed in the beginning of November
          2012.

          The tasks assigned to the local Consultant were as follows: conducting an analysis of the 25
          road sections with a high concentration of road accidents and drafting proposals for
          measures for the treatment of the main factors, causing the accidents; review of the
          recommendations for amendments to the national norms having a direct relation to the road
          safety; developing guidelines for analysis of the road sections with a high concentration of
          road accidents, etc. In view of the specifics of the matter and the lack of traditions and
          understanding in Bulgaria of the leading trends in Europe, related to the road safety, the
          selected international Consultant played a major role and was extremely important for the
          successful completion of the Component. His objective was to support the local Consultant
          in his work on the 25 road sections with a high concentration of road accidents, to review
          and make proposals, related to the regulatory framework from the viewpoint of introducing
          the good practices from Europe, as well as to conduct a one-week course for an official from
          RIA’s Headquarters and the specialized units on the subject of “Analysis and Methods for
          the Treatment of Road Sections with a High Concentration of Road Accidents”.
          III      Environment
          All necessary permits have been obtained from the Ministry of Environment and Water,
          before the commencement of the construction works, and they are being stored together
          with the lot dossiers.
          The environmental supervision is included in the quarterly reports of the Consultant as a
          general impact of construction on the environment, without provision of an evaluation of
          each of the implemented lots. The availability of an expert within the Consultant’s team,
          with the respective qualification is of particular importance.
          IV       Indicators Achieved
          (see the Table - Indicators)
          V      Challenges / Lessons Learnt
          In the process of implementing the Project, the main challenges faced by the Implementing
          Agency of the Project can be summarized in the following groups:
          •       Legislative: Finding the common ground when implementing the contractual terms
          for Construction for Building and Engineering Works Designed by the Employer, MDB
          Harmonized Edition March 2006 and the Bulgarian legislation (as some of the toughest
          moments are the commencement and end of construction and provided warranty deadlines);
          •        During the implementation: Compliance with the work schedule and cash flow.
          •      Financial: Uncertainties in determining the budget for the Project for each coming
          year due to the fact that RIA is a secondary budget distributor.




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   39
                           REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                       ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          •       The restructuring of RIA through the years has influenced the implementation of the
          Project.

          VI       Conclusions
          It is necessary to proceed to a better planning of the “design - execution” process, so that
          higher financial responsibility can be imposed on the construction supervision and designer.
          The term of the contracts for implementation to be from 7 to 10 years.
          More training of RIA personnel with regard to familiarizing with the rules for public
          procurement is necessary.
          VII Support on Behalf of the Bank
          The World Bank team provided the necessary support for the operations under the Project.
          The Bank took all decisions on time and immediately provided the “No Objection”
          statements.

          In the process of implementation, the professional advice of the Bank team members made a
          considerable contribution to the successful completion of the Project and meeting the set
          outcomes.


          VIII Appendices
          Appendix 1
          Table 1. Road sections included in the "Project for the rehabilitation of road infrastructure"

                  Lot           Section     Road                          Site and Sections                Length
                                                                                                            km


           Lot 1 - North           1         II-11    Vidin - Lom (km 0 +000 - km 10 +872)                 10.87
           West
                                   2         II-11    Vidin - Lom (km 14 +010 - km 15 +990)                 1.98

                                   3         II-11    Vidin - Lom (km 31 +873 - km 41 +914)                10.04

                                   4         II-11    Lom - Kovachitsa (km 49 +691 - km 57 +691)            8.00

                                   5         II-11    Lom - Kovachitsa (km 68 +279 - km 71 +979)            3.70

                                   6         II-11    Lom - Gigen (km102 +200 - km104 +750)                 2.55

           Lot 1 Total                                                                                     37.14

           Lot 2 North and         7         II-15    Vratsa - Oriahovo (km 0 +000 - km 2 +895)             2.89
           North Central
           Region
                                   8         II-11    Gulyantsi - Milkovitsa (km 174 +864 - km 196 +147)   21.28




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project          40
                            REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                       ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

                                   9        II-35    Pleven - Troyan - Kamare (km 46 +179-km 66 +500)         20.32

           Lot 2 Total                                                                                        44.49

           Lot 3 North-East       10        II-23    Ruse - Silistra (km 94 +200 - km 116 +564)               22.36

                                  11        II-51    Popovo - Dralfa (km 52 +149 - km 63 +790)                11.64

                                  12        II-51    Dralfa - Chudomir (km 70 +700 - km 75 +000)              4.30

                                  13        II-29    Varna - Dobrich limit (km 4 +000 - km 5 +400)            1.40

                                  14        II-29    Varna - Dobrich ring road (km 7 +058 - km 10 +400)       3.34

                                  15        II-29    Varna - Dobrich ring road (km 11 +500 - km 16 +200)      4.08

                                  16       III-235   Glavinitsa - Zafirovo (km 25 +200 - 39 +117)             13.92

           Lot 3 Total                                                                                        61.04

           Lot 4 South-West       17         I-6     Sofia - Pirdop (km133 +731 - km 189 +600)                55.87

           Lot 4 Total                                                                                        55.87

           Lot 5 South            18         I-6     Pirdop - Karlovo - Kalofer (km 242 +900 - km 264 +925)   22.03
           Central region
                                  19         III-    Plovdiv – Biala Cherkva - Kosovo (km 0 +000 - km 12      3.00
                                            8604     +000)
                                  20       III-663   bypass Chirpan - Zetovo (km 0 +000 - km 4 +700)          4.70

                                  21       III-807   Vurbitsa - Skobelevo (bypass Republic - Zetovo) (km 0    11.80
                                                     +000 - km 11 +800) over the Maritsa river
           Lot 5 Total                                                                                        41.53

           Lot 6 North-East       22         I-7     Shumen - Preslav (km120 +859 - km 139 +000)              18.14

                                  23         I-7     Preslav - Vurbitsa (km 146 +000 - km147 +700)            1.70

                                  24         I-7     Preslav - Vurbitsa (km 165 +250 - km 176 +200)           10.95

           Lot 6 Total                                                                                        30.79

           Lot 7 South-East       25        II-63    Pernik - Strezimirovtsi (km 43 +300 to km 52 +300)       9.00

                                  26         III-    Filipovtsi - Glogovitsa-Tran (km 0 +000 - km 12 +000)    12.00
                                            6301
                                  27       III-813   Dragoman-Vrabcha (km 29 +000 - km 56 +700)               27.70

           Lot 7 Total                                                                                        48.70

           Lot 8 South-West       28       III-198   G. Delchev - Pirin village (km 0 +000 - km 33 +590)      33.60

                                  29       III-198   Petrich - border – FYR Macedonia (km 60 +200 - km 91     31.40
                                                     +603)




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project         41
                          REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                     ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

           Lot 8 Total                                                                                          65.00

           Lot 9 South-East        30        I-9      Burgas - Marinka - Zvezdets - Malko Tarnovo - border -    65.00
                                                      Turkey (km 247 +135 - km 309 +135)


           Lot 9 Total                                                                                          65.00

           OVERALL LENGTH PROVIDED FOR REHABILITATION ROADS (KM)                                                449.56



          Table 2a. Road sections included in the "Project for the rehabilitation of road infrastructure"

                   Lot           Section     Road                        Site and Sections                     Length
                                                                                                                km

           Lot 1 - North West       1        II-11    Vidin - Lom (0 +000 - km 10 +924)                        10.924
                                    2        II-11    Vidin - Lom (km 14 +010 - km 16 +115)                     2.105
                                    3        II-11    Vidin - Lom (km 31 +873 - km 43 +500)                    11.627
                                    4        II-11    Lom - Kovatchevitsa (km 49 +691 - km 57 +747)             8.056
                                    5        II-11    Lom - Kovatchevitsa (km 68 +279 - km 70 +223)             1.944
                                    6        II-11    Lom - Gigen (km 102 +200 - km 104 +175)                   1.975
           Lot 1 Total                                                                                          36.63
           Lot 2 North and          7        II-15    Vratsa - Oriahovo (0 +000 - km 3 +028)                    3.028
           North Central
           Region
                                    8        II-11    Gigen - Gulyantsi - Milkovitsa (km 174 +867 - km 196     21.277
                                                      +144)
                                    9        II-35    Pleven - Troyan - Karnare (km 46 +105, km 66 +410)       20.305
           Lot 2 Total                                                                                         44.610
           Lot 3 North-East        11        II-23    Russe - Silistra (km 94 +200 - km 116 +445)              22.245
                                   12        II-51    Popovo - Dralfa (km 52 +420 - km 63 +745)                11.325
                                   13        II-51    Dralfa - Chudomir (km 70 +700 - km 75 +000)               4.300
                                   14        II-29    Varna - Dobrich (km 7 +057 - km 10 +419)                  3.362
                                   15        II-29    Varna - Dobrich (km 16 +124 - km 20 +470)                 4.346
           Lot 3 Total                                                                                         45.578
           Lot 4 South-West        17         I-6     Sofia - Pirdop (km 133 +895 - km 189 +292)               55.397
           Lot 4 Total                                                                                         55.397
           Lot 8 South-West        18       III-198   G. Delchev - Pirin (km 2 +634 - km 33 +542)              30.908
                                   19       III-198   Petrich - border crossing with FYR Macedonia (km 60      31.985
                                                      +200 - km 92 +185)

           Lot 8 Total                                                                                         62.893
           Lot 9 South-East        21         I-9     Burgas - Marinka - Zvezdets – Malko Tarnovo (km 247      61.841
                                                      +135 - km 308 +976)

           Lot 9 Total                                                                                         61.841
           OVERALL LENGTH PROVIDED FOR REHABILITATION ROADS (KM)                                               306.950




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project          42
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                     ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

          Table 2b. - Additional areas covered through change orders

              Lot        Section        Road                             Site and Sections                               Length
                                                                                                                          km

           Lot 2            1           II-11       Crossing through Gigen (km 172 +164 - km 174 +867)                    2.700
           Lot 3            2         II-49 and     Roundabout at km 11 +888 of II-49                                     0.530
                                         II-51

          Table 3. Selected contractor, price at the beginning and the end of construction, period of performance.

            Lot №        Selected       Estimated            Accepted            Final price           Period of           Period of
                        contractor    contract price       contract price                            performanc          performanc
                                                                                                     e under the          e after an
                                                                                                       contract           additional
                                                                                                      agreement           agreement
                                                                                                        (Days)              (Days)



           Lot 1 (W-   Roads                                                                                       546              954
           01)         Association     14,551,375.20        13,993,496.00        14,095,954.43
                       Vidin
           Lot 2 (W-   Trace                                                                                       546              945
           02)         Association     28,046,602.20        20,253,431.74        21,113,794.35
                       Pleven
           Lot 3 (W-   Roads                                                                                       730              910
           03)         Association     35,909,038.80        30,784,516.58        22,964,071.42
                       Razgrad
           Lot 4 (W-   PAM                                                                                         730              999
           04)         Association     45,883,771.80        24,809,421.10        26,460,544.06
                       - 2009
           Lot 8 (W-   Consortia                                                                                   730              937
           08)         Nevrokop        33,562,042.80        25,229,697.46        29,898,781.41
           Lot 9 (W-   Highways -                                                                                  730              917
           09)         Black Sea       48,817,516.80        27,815,805.73        33,959,369.22
                       Corp.
                         TOTAL:       206,770,347.60       142,886,368.61      148,492,514.89               4012             5662



          Appendix 2
          Table 4a. Component 2 - Institutional Development

             type №          Description of contract            Selected supplier /                 value                      note
                                                                    consultant

           G-01/1         Permanent automatic devices       -                                                       -    the procedure is
                          for counting and classifying                                                                   terminated
                          traffic
           G-01/2         Mobile system for the study of    -                                                       -    the procedure is
                          movement in weight                                                                             terminated

           G-02/1         Equipment for the                 -                                                       -    had not
                          measurement of adhesion                                                                        submitted bids

           G-02/2         Equipment for measuring the       Dynatest Denmark A/ S               €     117,714.00
                          flatness




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project             43
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                     ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY

           G-02/3         Deflektograf to measure the       VECTRA                     €   393,400.00
                          bearing capacity of the floor
           G-06           Illuminate the road markings      MARVEL Ltd                 €    14,753.00
                          and road signs
           G-07/1         Mobile laboratory for testing     Patpribor Ltd.             €   256,706.04
                          of materials
           G-08/1         Automated dynamic tests           SIGMATICS Ltd.             €    35,520.25
           G-08/2         Equipment for testing the         Patpribor Ltd.                 £ 10,440.00
                          integrity of pilots
           G-08/3         Software to calculate the         KANISCO Ltd.               €    16,150.00
                          bearing capacity of bridges
           C-02           Improve the management of         Finroad Ltd in             €   588,290.00
                          road maintenance                  association with
                                                            Ramboll Denmark A / S
                                                            and Roadscanners Ltd
           G-09/1         HDM-4 software program            TRL Limited                $     6,037.50
           G-09/2         Delivery of digital cameras 4     VIP Treiding               €     1,000.00
                          pcs.
           G-09/3         GIS                               ESRI Bulgaria              €    12,680.00
           G-09/4         Specialized software ROAD         Roadscanners Ltd           €    51,750.00
                          DOCTOR
           G-10/1         Computer equipment and            Kontrax Ltd.               €    13,703.22
                          networks
           G-10/2         System for video cameras and      Roadscanners Ltd           €    32,080.00
                          inventory of road
           G-11           Atomobil type "Van" for the       Nissan Sofia Ltd           €    16,085.00
                          mobile laboratory ipitvane
                          material
           C-11           Consultant on main roads          Virgaudas Puodziukas -     €   308,470.00
                                                            Lithuania

           C-12           Consultant to assist the          -                                        -   the procedure is
                          management of projects under                                                   not performed
                          OP "Transport" and "Regional
                          Development"
           C-05           Training RIA TSIPTNENS,           Trainings held in Turin,   €    40,659.61    payment of
                          SDA                               Italy, and Rab. Visit to                     invoices
                                                            Vilnius, Lithuania

           C-06/1         Audit 1 of the project in 2008.   Grant Thornton             €    11,720.00
           C-06/2         2 audit of the project in 2009,   AFA Ltd.                   €    32,615.00
                          2010. and 2011.
           C-06/3         3 Audit of the project in 2012.   AFA Ltd.                   €    21,740.00
                          and 2013.




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project            44
                         REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
                                    ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY


          Table 4b. Trainings according to the project

             type №      Description of contract    Selected               trained          man       totaling            note
                                                    supplier /             experts         hours
                                                    consultant

              С-01      Training to implement       Mott                         26           134
                        the terms of the FIDIC      Macdonald
              С-05      Project Cycle                Turin, Italy                    4        320      95,427.94
                        Management                                                                       BGN
                        Management of projects                                       4        160
                        financed by IBRD
                        Management of projects                                       7        280
                        financed by IBRD
                        Working visit to            COWI                         10           400
                        Lithuania
              С-08      Analysis and methods        Royal                        37          1480        4,889.58     excluding
                        for treatment of portions   Haskoning                                               BGN       travel
                        having a concentration      DHV                                                               expences,
                        of crashes                                                                                    room and
                                                                                                                      board for the
                                                                                                                      participants.
                                                                                                                      Those are
                                                                                                                      covered by
                                                                                                                      RIA budget



          Appendix 3
          Table 5. Component 3 - Road Safety

             type №            Description of contract               Selected supplier /             value                note
                                                                         consultant
           C-07           Road Safety Technical Assistance -     JV "Road Safety"                   119,410.00 €
                          Research, analysis and preparation
                          of preliminary engineering
                          (conceptual designs) to improve
                          road safety in dangerous Sites.
           C-08           Road Safety - Technical Assistance     Wim van der Wijk                    54,500.00 €
                          - Construction of improved
                          institutional capacity in the
                          systematic identification and
                          improvement of road safety in
                          hazardous locations
           C-10           Road Safety - Research                 RIA with the assistance                         -   studies were
                                                                 of TSIPTNENS                                        conducted by
                                                                                                                     experts from
                                                                                                                     RIA


           W-10           Road safety - works and goods          -                                               -   the procedure
                                                                                                                     is not
                                                                                                                     performed




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project              45
          Annex 8 Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
          N/A




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   46
          Annex 9 List of Supporting Documents
          Project Documentation
          • Project Concept Note, Bulgaria: RIRP. June 29, 2006.
          • Project Appraisal Document on a proposed Loan in the Amount of EUR 90.0 million
             (US$ 122.5 million) to Bulgaria for RIRP, May 31, 2007.
          • Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of RIRP and IBRD-48650,
             March 31, 2011.
          • Loan Agreement (RIRP) between Bulgaria and International Bank for Reconstruction
             and Development, Dated September 19, 2007/
          • Loan Agreement Amendment (RIRP) between Bulgaria and International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development, Dated May 17, 2011/
          • Minutes of Concept Review for Bulgaria: RIRP, June 29, 2006.
          • Results of the Quality Enhancement Review for Bulgaria: RIRP, October 19, 2006.
          • Minutes of Decision Package Review Meeting for Bulgaria: RIRP, November 16, 2006.
          • Negotiations Package for Bulgaria: RIRP, May 29, 2007.
          • Bulgaria – Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project : Environmental Management
             Plan, December 01, 2006

          Mission Aide-Memoires and Implementation Status Reports
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 1, November 13, 2007.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 2, March 06, 2008.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 3, May 05, 2008.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 4, November 06, 2008.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 5, March 23, 2009.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 6, August 05, 2009.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 7, December 08, 2009.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 8, April 14, 2010.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 9, November 10, 2010.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 10, June 29, 2011.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 11, October 30, 2011.
          • Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
             Results Report 12, October 22, 2012.



RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   47
          •   Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
              Results Report 13, December 25, 2012.
          •   Bulgaria Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: P099894 - Implementation Status
              Results Report 14, June 22, 2013.

          Other documents and reports
          • Country Partnership Strategy for Bulgaria for the period FY11-13, April 20, 2011
          • Bulgaria Public Finance Policy Review. World Bank Report No. 33992-BG. 2006.
          • Review of 25 Hazardous locations: Advice to improve black spot analysis and road
             safety treatments, May 02, 2013
          • Quarterly Report 1 – RIRP-C11 – Highway Advisor
          • Quarterly Report 2 – RIRP-C11 – Highway Advisor
          • Quarterly Report 3 – RIRP-C11 – Highway Advisor
          • Quarterly Report 4 – RIRP-C11 – Highway Advisor
          • Quarterly Report 5 – RIRP-C11 – Highway Advisor
          • Quarterly Report 6 – RIRP-C11 – Highway Advisor
          • Mott McDonald: Draft Final Progress Report for Bulgaria Road Infrastructure
             Rehabilitation Project, August, 2013.




RIA – Rehabilitation of the Road Infrastructure Project   48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 35097R
                             22°                                                       23°                                                                            24°                                                                    25°                                                                26°                                                          27°                                                          28°                                                        29°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Bucharest

                                                                              Koshava                                                                                                                   R O M A N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Silistra
 44°                                                              Vindin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tutrakan                                                                                                                                                         44°

                             To Zajecar             Kula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Alfatar                                                         To Constanta
                                                                                                                      Da
                                                                                                   Lom                   n   ub
                                                                                                                                  e                                                                                                                                                                                 Ruse                                                     Dulovo
                                                                                                                                                    R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R.
                                                                                                                             Kozloduy                            Oryahovo                                                                                                                         be                                                        Isperih                                                                                     Kardam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nu
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gigen                    Nikopol                                          Da
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Todorevo
                                                   Belogradchik

                                                                                                                                      NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Belene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NC                                                                            Kaolinovo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ja
                                                                                                                                                                                                        R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dobrich




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Svishtov




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tR
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ar                                                                                                                                              Razgrad                                                                                                                    Shabla




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nt
                                                                                                                                                                                               Isk

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ra
                                                                                                           Gabrovnitsa
                                                                                                                                                                            Knezha                                Dolna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tyulenovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mitropoliya                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sokolovo
                                                                                Montana                                                               Byala
                                                                                                                                                      Slatina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Byala                                                                                                                                                           Kavarna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Popovo                                                                                                                      Balchik
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dolni           Pleven               Levski                                                                                                                                            Novi Pazar
                      SERBIA                                                                                                      Chiren




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kaspichan
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dubnik                    Kamenets           âm .                                                                                                 Shumen
                                                                                                         Beli Izvor                            Cherven Bryag                                                                                       Os R                                                                                                                                    HEMU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S M OTO R
                                                                              Berkovitsa
                                                                                                           Vratsa                                                                                                                                                                                                                Turgovishte                                                                  W AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Provadiya     Reka Beloslav           Varna
                                                                                                                         Mezdra                                                                                                                                                          Gorna Oryakhovitsa                                                           veliki Preslav
                                                                                                                                                                                       Zlatna                Lovech                                                                        Lyaskovets                                          Omurtag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Veliki                                    Devnya
                                                                                                                                                                                       Panega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Veliko Zlataritsa                                                                                                                                                                                                                 43°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R.
 43°                                                                          Kalotina




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sevlievo                                                                                                                                                                                     Staro Oryakhovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Turnovo                                                                                                                                                                                       Black




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ro
                                                                                Dragoman
                                                                                                                           Botevgrad                            R WAY                                                                                                     Dryanovo
                                                                       Gaber                                                                              OTO                                                     Troyan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Elena
                                                                                                              Novi Iskar                                                                                                                           Gabrovo




                                                                                                                                                   US M
                                                                                  Kostinbrod
                                                                                Bojurishte                                   Buhovo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea




                                                                                                                                               EM
                                                                                                                                               H                  Zlatitsa                              Klisura                                                                                                                                                                                       Aytos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sliven                                                                                  Nesebur
                                                                                                                                      Elin Pelin                                  Pirdop
                                                                                             SOFIA                                                                                                                      Karlovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kalofer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R.                                            Karnobat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kameno                        Pomorie
                                                                    Radomir         Pernik                                                     TR                                                                                                           Kazanluk Tulovo            Dubovo                  Tundja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sarafovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ravnets
                                                                                                                                                                                      Panagjurishte                                                                                                                                                                                                               Burgas


                                                                                                                                                   AK
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Khisarya                                                                                                                                   Yambol
                                                                                     Dolni Rakovets



                                                                                                                                                     IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bezmer                                                                                Chernomorets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Stara Zagora                                    Nova

                                                                                                SW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sozopol
                                                                       Bobov                                                                                          MO                                                                                                                                       Zagora
                                                   Kyustendil            Dol                                                 Samokov                                        TO
                                                                                                                                                                                 RW                                                                                                                                                        Tenevo
                                                                                                                                                                                      AY                 Graf Ignatievo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TRAKI A MOTO RWAY                                                                                                                                                                                 Primorsko                                                   This map was produced by
                            To Kriva                                                          Dupnitsa
                            Palanka
                                                    Gyushevo                                                                                                           Pazardzhik                                                             Orizovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chirpan          Mihailovo                   Lyubenovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                           Rilski                                                                                                                   Skutare                                                                                                   Elkhovo                                                                                   Michurin
                                                                                                                                                          Aleko Konstantinov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                           Manastir                                                                                                                                              Mar it
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Plovdiv                   Cheshnegirovo                      za R .                                                                                                                                                                Akhtopol                                      any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Krumovo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the part of The World Bank 42°
 42°                                                                                     Blagoevgrad                                               Velingrad                               Peshtera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dimitrovgrad                                                                                                                    Malko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rezovo                                 Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Asenovgrad                                          Uzundzhovo                                                                                                                   Tarnovo                                                                 legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kharmanli                                                                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or
                                                                                                             Razlog                                                                    Batak                                                                   Khaskovo                                                                                                                                                                                                     GSDPM
                                                                                    Str um




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Malevo                                                                                TURKEY                                                                                         Map Design Unit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              boundaries.
                                                                                      a R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   27°                                                           28°                                                        29°
                   F Y R                                                                                  Dobrinishta

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SC
                                                                                                                                      Me




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Svilengrad
                                                                                                                                       sta




                 MACEDONIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Edirne
                                                                                                                                         R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ar
                                                                                                                           Gotse                                                 Dospat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kurdjali                                               da
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R.                                                                                                                           BULGARIA
                                                                                                                         Delchev                                                                                                                                                          Studen Kladenets
                                                                                                   Sandanski                                                                                                                    Smolyan                                                                                                To Edirne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R OAD INFR ASTRUCTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Momchilgrad                      Ivaylovgrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rudozem            Madan
                                                        To Strumica
                                                                                                         General Todorov
                                                                                                           Kulata                                                                                                                                           Podkova                                                                                                                                                   REHABILITATION PR OJECT
                                                                                    Petrich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zlatograd
                                                                                                                                           To Drama                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT ROAD SECTIONS TO BE REHABILITATED
                                                                                                 To Serral
                22°                                                           23°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MOTORWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CLASS 1 ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Komotini
               HUNGARY                                              MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                                                                            G R E E C E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CLASS 2 ROADS
 CROATIA
                                            ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    41°                                                             CLASS 3 ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                it s
    BOSNIA AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ar
   HERZEGOVINA            SERBIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                          Danube
                                                                                     Black                      41°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
               MONTE-                                                                 Sea
               NEGRO
                                          SOFIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PORTS
                          KOSOVO             BULGARIA
    Adriatic
                               FYR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REGION BOUNDARIES (Level-2 NUTS subdivisions)
        Sea
                ALBANIA     MACEDONIA
ITALY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Aegean Sea
                            GREECE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0             20               40               60             80            100
                                                                              TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                24°                                                                      25°                                                                        26°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OCTOBER 2013
