Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AAV  A?97-4
Report No. 7190-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
August 24, 1988
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docutsent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Australes (A)
July 1988             US Dollar                  Austral
Commercial Rate (official)       $ 1                      A 9.25
A 1                      $ 0.11
Free Market Rate                 $ 1                      A12.00
A 1                      $ 0.08
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC    - Advisory Committee
(Comite Asesor)
BHN   -  National Mortgage Bank
(Banco Hipotecario Nacional)
DNRP  -  National Directorate of Social Security
(Direcci6n Nacional de Recaudaci6n Provisional)
FONAVI-  National Housing Fund
(Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda)
INDEC -  National Census and Statistics Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos)
IPV   -  Provincial Housing Institute
(Instituto Provincial de 1 iivienda)
SIGEP -  Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas
SVOA  -  Secretariat of Housing and Environmental Management
(Secretaria de Vivienda y Ordenamient3 Ambiental)



FOR OWICAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECI SUMMARY ........................                     iii-v
I.      SECTORAL CONTEXT ..........................................   1
A.  General ...............................................   1
B.  Policies, Institutions and Programs           .     .        3
C. Sectoral Issues                     ..                        6
D.  Rationale for Bank Involvement             ..                6
II.      THE PROJECT...............................................    6
A. Project Origin ..                                             6
B. Project Objectives          ..                                7
C. Project Description    ..
D. Project Costs ..                                              9
E.  Financiog Plan ........................................  10
F.  Design of Works .......................................  11
G.  Implementation ........................................  11
H.  Disbursements .........................................  12
I. Procurement ...........................................  13
J.  Financial Analysis, and Loan Recovery System ..........  15
K. Proposed New Mortgage System               . .               17
L.  Accounts and Audits ...................................  22
III.     PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .....................................  22
A.  Economic and Fiscal Benefits ..........................  22
B.  Urban Poverty Impact ..................................  24
C.  Risks and Safeguards ..................................  24
IV.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS           .      .       25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Artaza (Mission Leader); Ringskog (Principal Economist); Hicks
(Financial Economist); Linder (Procurement Adviser); Abbott (Lawyer) and
Mr. Soto and Mrs. Sancho (Consultants). Mmes. Tate, Cruz and Harper
assisted in the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perform nce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofiyAtion.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont)
Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex  Il  Population and Housing Sector Profile ...................  28
Annex  2:  Organizational Charts: SVOA AND IPVS ....................  30
Annex  3:  Government's Policy Letter .............................   34
Annex  4:  Selection of Beneficiaries .............................    38
Annex  5:  Construction Details, and Housing Designs ..............    41
Annex  6:  Key Indicators for Monitoring Housing Sector
Performance ...........................................    53
Annex  7:  Application of new Mortgage Repayment System ...........    61
Annex  8:  Technical Assistance Program ...........................    63
Annex  9:  National Household Income Distribution .................   67
Annex 10:  Total Project Cost .....................................    68
Annex 11:  Project Implementation Schedule ........................    69
Annex 12:  Disbursement Schedule ..................................    70
Annex 13:  FONAVI Flow Charts and Tables ..........................    71
Annex 14:  Internal Rate of Return of Project Components ..........    76
Map:  IBRD No 12432 October 1984.



- iii -
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Argentine Republic
Beneficiary:            Secretariat of Housing  and Environmental Management
(SVOA),   National   Housing   Fund   (FONAVI),  and
Provincial Housing Institutes (IPVs)
Amount:                 US$300.0 million equivalent
Termst                  Repayment in 15 years including five years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Project Objectives:    The overall objective of  the proposed loan would be
to support the Government in its efforts to reform
its sectoral policies. The main purposes of the
policy reforms are to increase the productivity of
the housing programs financed by FONAVI, improve the
financial performance of FONAVI and reduce subsidies
and improve  their  targeting.    The  project would
achieve this through: (i) reducing the unit cost a-d
the size of FONAVI  houses  and the time required to
build  them;   (ii) establishing   standard  bidding
procedures;   (iii) improving   the   selection   of
beneficiaries   by    establishing    national   and
provincial registries; (iv) improving the recovery
of FONAVI loans through a new mortgage payment
system; (v) promoting and mobilizing family savings,
with special emphasis on the participation of non-
governmental organizations, such as cooperatives;
(vi) redirecting   and   reducing   housing   sector
subsidies; and (vii) improving the administrative
and financial procedures of the FONAVI system.
Project Description:   The proposed  project  wouid  include  a  package of
policy improvements, as evidenced in a Government
Housirp  olicy Letter,  covering inter alia: (i) the
estab.    ent of national  and provincial registries
of pot     1 beneficiaries; (ii) the introduction of
new ec,  iical housing designs  to lower unit costs;
(iii) tU. relaxation of such standards that unduly
restrict innovative and more economical housing
designs;  (iv) the  introduction   of  improved  and
standard bidding procedures; (v) the introduction of
a new mortgage  system  to  improve   cost recovery;
(vi) the promotion of savings to be applied as down
payments; (vii) the establishment of explicit and
transparent subsidies; and (viii) a line of credit
directed  to   improving   and  rehabilitating  sub-
standard  housing.      The  proposed  project  would



- iv -
include technical assistance to carry out studies
and  implement  recommendations   in  several  areas
required to make SVOA and IPVs more efficient,
including, inter alia, the creation of a sector
information   system,   new   procedures   for   the
management and control of FONAVI's portfolio, new
procedures  to   collect   and  administer  FONAVI's
resources, new ways to capture savings for the
housing sector, and a more stable and modern legal
framework.    The  proceeds  of  the  proposed loan,
together   with    FONAVI's    own   resources   and
beneficiaries' down payments, would finance the full
costs of the housing units to be constructed or
improved under the project. FONAVI would assume the
cross-currency exchange risk and the US dollar
exchange risk.   The  proceeds  of the proposed loan
would be made  available  to  the IPVs in accordance
with allocation criteria satisfactory to the Bank,
under participating agreements which would define
the IPVs' obligations, including the recovery of the
loans made  to  the  beneficiaries.    The  funds so
recovered are to be returned to SVOA. Loans for
home improvements would be provided by SVOA through
BHN or other financial agents satisfactory to the
Bank, with SVOA assuming the loan repayment risk.
Benefits:               The proposed project  would  yield both economic and
fiscal benefits. On the economic side, the project
would provide about 60,000 additional houses at a
much lower cost than before, while another 39,500
would be  upgraded  and  expanded.    Other economic
benefits are provided by the sharper targeting of
subsidies and the creation of about 180,000 man-
years  of  employment.    On  the  fiscal  side, the
proposed project would decrease the housing sector's
fiscal deficit through its lower subsidies and
higher savings and recuperation of mortgages. Under
the project, 43? of the cost of the most economic
two-bedroom houses and 84% of the cost of three-
bedroom houses would be recuperated in real terms as
compared to about 1OZ at present. This would lessen
the fiscal deficit for a comparable level of housing
production  and  potentially   lower  the  level  of
Government expenditure per unit.
Special Risks:          The   main   risks    are   financial,   legal   and
institutional.    FONAVI   tax   receipts  and  loan
recoveries are sensitive to high inflation rates and
have  fluctuated  in  the  past.    In  part,  these
financial risks are not specific to the project. In
order to ensure a more steady flow of revenue, a new
mortgage repayment system will be introduced, and
the technical assistance component would strengthen
the management and control of FONAVI's portfolio.
In   order   to    minimize   the   project   risks,



- v -
disbursements after the initial US$150 million would
be  subject  to   compliance  with  clearly  defined
improvements in FONAVI's financial and operational
performance.   All  agreed  FONAVI  reforms would be
introduced  through   FONAVI   Resolutions.    Legal
authorities have confirmed that the implementation
of proposed reforms through FONAVI Resolutions and
backed by the Loan Agreement would be permitted
under  the  current  FONAVI  legislation.    SVOA is
understaffed and its personnel is underpaid and
unmotivated.   The  result  has  been administrative
weaknesses, low productivity and staff morale. The
proposed institutional arrangements would facilitate
project implementation while increasing efficiency.
The technical assistance component, through the
introduction  of   new   procedures,   training  and
provision of equipment, would also contribute to
improve SVOA's performance.
Estimated Project Costs
(In US$ million)
FEC I   Percent of
COMPONENT                         Local  Foreign  Total  of Total  Base Costs
1. Civil Work:
A. Two-bedroom houses           149.9    88.0   237.9       37          46
B. Three-bedroom houses         98.3    55.3   153.6        36          30
2. Housing Improvement Loans       39.4    23.1    62.5       35          12
3. Supervision                     15.4    --       15.4      --           3
4. Technical Assistance
and Auditing                   5.3      2.8     8.1       35           2
Base Cost                    308.3   169.3   477.6        35          92
Taxes and Duties                   38.6    --       38.6      --           8
Total Base Cost              346.9   169.3   516.2        33         100
Physical Contingencies             34.7    16.9    51.6       33          10
Price Contingencies (8Z)           27.0    13.2    40.2       33           8
Sub-total Contingencies       61.7    30.1    91.8        33         118
Total Project Cost             4r8.6    199.4   608.0    33         118
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY           1989     1990        1991     1992      1993
--------------- US$ Million-------
Annual            35.0    70.0         80.0      70.0     45.0
Cumulative        35.0   105.0        185.0    255.0    300.0
Rate of Return:   17 percent



ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. General
1.01     The 1986 population  of  Argentina  is  estimated  at 30.9 million
inhabitants of whom 26.1 million (842) are urban, 1.3 million (4Z) rural
concentrated, and 3.5 million (12Z) rural dispersed (see Annex 1).
Argentina's urban growth has differed from that of most other Latin
American countries.  As early as in  1914, 572 of its population was uro.n.
Overall, the annual population growth rate was 1.76X per annum in the
1970s. Argentina's census bureau (INDEC) estimates that by the year 2000
the urban population will reach 32 million, or 89Z of the total population.
1.02     The urban population is mostly  concentrated in Gran Buenos Aires,
with a population in 1980 of about 12 million inhabitants or 46Z of the
total urban populatior.. Buenos Aires' population is ten times higher than
the population of the second and third cities, Cordoba and Rosario with
almost 1 million inhabitants each.
1.03     Argentina's  medium-size  cities   have   recently  grown  faster,
however, than the large  cities.    In  1947,  there  were only nine cities
excluding Buenos Aires with a population over 100,000. These constituted
202 of the country's urban population.    By 1980 there were 17 cities with
between 100,000 and one million inhabitants, comprising 27? of the urban
population. The fastest growing urban areas are in the Patagonia region
(Chubut and Neuquen) and in the north-east (Chaco, Formosa, and Misiones).
1.04     These dem^graphic trends  reflect  a  decentralization of economic
activity.  While the Gross Regional Product (GRP) of the country as a whole
grew by 28Z in the 1970s, it only grew by 16? and 18? in the Federal
Capital and the Province of Buenos Aires, respectively. This contrasts
with growth rates over the same period of 123? for Neuquen and 43Z for
Cordoba. This decentralization of economic activity is reflected in the
more recent data on  manufacturing  employment.    From 1975/85, the Buenos
Aires Metropolitan Area lost 167,000 manufacturing jobs while the rest of
the country gained 15,000 jobs.
1.05     Housing Demand.   Argentina's  1980  Population and Housing Census
includes the latest available information on housing demand. In defining
the housing deficit, the 1980 census used minimum housing standards higher
than those  used  in  other  Latin  American  countries.    This  tended to
exaggerate the housing  deficit.    A  more  realistic approximation to the
housing situation in 1987 can be gleaned from data on population growth,
houses  built,  obsolete  houses   and  informal  construction.    Informal
construction includes rehabilitation of existing houses and construction of



- 2 -
new houses. According to estimates, informal housing constructions during
1980-87 amounted to 560,000 units.    Based  on such estimates, the housing
situation has been calculated for 1987 as shown below in Table 1:
Table Is ARGENTINA'S HOUSING SITUATION, 1980 - 1987
(Millions)
1980       1987
-  Population                                               27.4        31.5
-  No. of Households                                          7.4        8.5
-  No. of Occupied Houses 1980                                7.1         -
- Absolute Deficit 1980                                      0.3          -
-  Formal Housing Construction 1980-87                         -         0.8
-  Informal Housing Construction 1980-87                                 0.6
-  Obsolescence 1980-87                                                  0.5
-  Total of Houses 1987                                                  8.0
- Absolute deficit 1987                                        -         0.5
-  Substandard Houses                                        2.0         2.0
-  Total Deficit                                             2.3         2.5
1.06     The deficit of 2.5 million  housing  units shown above includes an
absolute deficit of 0.5 million  units  and 2.0 million substandard houses,
of which an undetermined share could  be upgraded or improved.  Real demand
would be only measured through  the Provincial Registries to be established
under the proposed project.
1.07     Vacant Houses.   According  to  the  1980  census,  there were 1.1
million vacant houses, distributed as follows: 0.2 million recreational
homes, 0.2 million in commercial use, and 0.7 million unoccupied houses.
Since the census, all rent controls were abolished and rents were free to
rise to market  levels  (Law  No.  23091).    According  to recent official
information,  close to 882  of  vacant houses are dilapidated and scheduled
to be demolished. This leaves only about 0.1 million unoccupied houses,
i.e. an effective vacancy level around 12 of the total housing stock,
adding to the need for an increased number of housing units.
1.08     Rental Market.  The  number  of  housing  units available for rent
have steadily decreased in Argentina during the last 40 years. In 1947, of
the total housing stock, 622 were  rented.   By 1960, only 252 were rented.
The 1980 census showed that only 14Z of the 7.1 million housing units were
rented. The main reason for this drop is to be found in a law enacted in
1976, heavily protecting the tenants.   As  a consequence, a good number of
houses was kept vacant for  years.    This situation lasted until 1984 when
the passage of Law No. 23,091 completely freed the rental market. As a
result of the law, rents rose sharply in real terms.
1.09     Housing  Supply.    During   the   last   15  years,  new  housing
construction has varied from 80,000 to 150,000 units per year. The
availability of private resources in this sector has decreased gradually
from 75Z in 1975 to less than 502 of total investment in recent years.
House construction has also decreased from 150,000 units in 1975 to a



-3-
little over 80,000 units in past years, not even sufficient to keep abreast
of new household  formation,  estimated  at  130,000  per  year.   For this
reason, the public sector assumed a more important role in the financing of
housing, through the Secretariat of Housing and Environmental Management
(SVOA) which manages the National Housing Fund (FONAVI), the Provincial
Housing Institutes (IPV) which execute the works finau.ced by this Fund, and
Banco Hipotecario Nacional (BHN).
B.       Policies, Institutions and Programs
1.10     Policies.   Until  now,  Argentina  has  lacked  a clearly defined
housing policy. Implicitly, a policy of sorts emerged through the many
public statements on the functions and responsibilities of the different
sector institutions. The FONAVI Law (No. 21581 of May 26, 1977, amended by
Law No. 23060 of April 1984) includes the objective to build 'economic
housing of minimum conditions of habitability for low income families'.
This policy was never systematically carried out and the housing sector, in
practice, developed ignoring the intent of the law. The result has been
an inefficient use of resources.
1.11     The Government has prepared  a  Housing  Policy Letter (para. 2.02
and Annex 3) which outlines the new policies that the Government intends to
pursue in this sector.    The  Government  now  considers  it  essential to
restructure the publicly financed housing programs so as to give priority
to meeting the housing needs of the lower-income groups (below the 402
income percentile), through low cost housing construction with clearly
explicit subsidies geared  to  income  levels.    The Government intends to
expand the participation of the private sector as a whole and to establish
and support private savings systems and increase the cost recovery of its
housing projects, thus making it possible to reduce its total expenditures
in the sector.
1.12     Institutions.  Construction and financing of public sector housing
are promoted by SVOA in the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and BHN
under the Ministry of Economy since  1983.    There are also 24 IPVs, under
the provincial governments, which receive policy guidance and financing
from the central government  through  SVOA.    There are about 4000 private
construction companies active in the  sector.   They are grouped in several
associations of which the Argentine Construction Chamber is the most
important. The private construction companies compete actively in bidding
for housing construction carried out by the IPVs. In the provinces there
is an average of 6 bidders for each tender, while in the Capital there have
been up to 28 bidders during the last few years. Concentration of many
construction management decisions in the hands of SVOA and IPVs has
sometimes impaired the efficiency of the construction companies. The final
product, however, is generally of satisfactory quality (para. 2.16).
1.13     Secret:riat  of  Housing  and   Environmental  Management.    SVOA
(Annex 2) is responsible for defining and executing the national housing
policy; it also administers FONAVI, the main source of revenue for housing
construction.   SVOA  fixes  the  technical  and  regulatory  norms for the
housing built with these resources and allocates the funds among the
provinces. Regional differences, both technical and financial, are seldom
considered, because of the high degree of centralization. The regional



- 4 -
authorities and SVOA have 3enerally contended on the allocation of FONAVI
resources, the coefficients to determine regional cost differences and the
regulations for loan recovery.   SVOA  has  a permanent staff of about 200,
including management, professional and support staff. Besides the FONAVI
resources, SVOA also receives a small amount from the profits of the Soccer
lottery (PRODE) and special allocations from the Treasury.
1.14     National Mortaage Bank.    The  BHN,  one  of the oldest financial
institutions in Argentina dating back to 1886, was originally designed to
assist in the  development  of  the  agricultural  sector.   Until 1945 its
participation in the housing  sector was  minimal.    In that year, it was
restructured as an autarchic state institution hithin the Central Bank
system. Two laws were passed to permit BHN to increase its level of
financing of housing.   In  1962,  BHN  started a housing construction plan
(Federal Housing Plan) with IDB financing, emphasizing low income housing
and community facilities such as schools, libraries, and recreation areas.
Construction credit was given to individuals and to entities such as
cooperatives and mutual help associations (wmutuales"). During the fifties
and sixties,  BNN  was  the  main  credit  institution  for  housing.   Its
importance declined in the  seventies.    A  rapid decline in internal cash
generation, only partial loan indexation and a high level of inflation,
decapitalized BHN almost totally.    Coordination  between BHN and SVOA has
been poor, since they report to different Ministries. The average number
of units financed by BHN was 13,000 units per annum during the eighties.
At the end of 1987, almost all of BHN resources came from the Central Bank
in the form of overdrafts or straight transfers. BHN's operations, with
the exception of the Federal Housing Plan mentioned above, were earlier
aimed mainly at the mid- and high-income families. However, during the
last few years BHN has focussed its attention on lower income families
through housing programs such as "Plan Techo' and "Plan Centenario'. In
December 1987, BHN's debt with the Central Bank had reached A 3.5 billion
and its mortgage portfolio amounted to A 4 blllion. In that same month,
the Central Bank intervened and appointed a new Board and Manager, while
temporarily suspending all new loans.    The  permanent staff of BHN number
about 4,500 at headquarters and at 50 branches throughout the country.
Government's policy aims at the reactivation of BHN and the Bank would
support this effort under a possible restructuring project for BHN.
1.15     National Housing Fund (FONAVI).    FONAVI  was  created in 1972 to
finance housing with minimal conditions of habitability for low income
families who could not afford unsubsidized housing mortgages. The FONAVI
loans are normally guaranteed by  mortgages.    However, in some cases, the
houses may be lent to the beneficiaries until they have fully paid for it.
FONAVI resources come from a tax paid by employers and the self-employed.
The initial rate was 2.5? of  salaries  paid.   In 1977 this percentage was
increased to 5Z while the self-employed have to pay an amount equivalent to
20? of their social  security  contributions.    FONAVI resources amount to
about US$700 million per year, but  evasion  is very high (see para. 1.17).
Between 1973 and 1985, FONAVI financed 211,000 housing units with an
average cost of US$21,000 ptr unit (1985 prices). PONAVI's annual revenues
represents about 12 of GDP.    Loan  recovery from 1973 to 1985 represented
only 0.72 of the annual investments. Serious administrative, technical and
financial  deficiencies  have   negatively  affected  FONAVI's  operations.
Decision-making is overly centralized in SVOA in Buenos Aires, but no
reliable and up-to-date information  system  exists  at the center to guide



- 5 -
decisions and permit  monitoring.    Technically,  the centralized decision
making has led to high and costly housing standards that do not take into
account the repayment capacity  of  the  beneficiaries.   Public bidding is
carried out without clearly defining the final product and this results in
continuous negotiations between the construction companies and the IPVs,
usually  on  account  of  change  orders.    The  change  orders  and other
variations in the terms of contract generally result in higher costs,
protracted construction periods and excessive overhead costs.
1.16     Provincial Housing Institutes (IPVs).  The IPVs execute the FONAVI
programs in  line  with  regulations  from  SVOA.    Although  the IPVs are
formally part of the provincial governments, they receive resources and
regulations from SVOA (Annex 2, pp. 2-4 contains information on nine
typical IPVs covering 772 of the country's population). The quality and
efficiency of IPVs varies widely, with some being excellent and others
poor. The main deficiencies of the IPVs are in the areas of recording,
costing, management  and  control  systems  (paLt.  2.38).   Supervision is
sometimes delayed because of the involvemient by professional staff in tasks
like design and selection of materials and t4chnology. Professional staff
is generally of good quality and there is lower turnover ratios than in
other sectors of the provincial administration, thanks to a percentage of
FONAVI funds (42) which is distributed among IPV staff as overhead for
supervision.
1.17     The most common distortion in  the  use of the FONAVI resources is
caused by the common belief that housing has to be provided by the State,
without any  payment  in  return  from  the  beneficiaries.    In addition,
FONAVI's financial viability is threatened by the widespread evasion of the
FONAVI  payroll  tax.      Currently,  in  Argentina's  highly  inflationary
environment, employers may prefer to invest the funds due FONAVI in the
short-term market at 12 to 142 monthly interest, and pay a monthly fine of
102 for the  delayed  tax  payment.    The  liquidity  of FONAVI is further
jeopardized since work is  programmed  based  on the estimated tax revenue,
without taking into consideration the high level of tax evasion. The
program can easily become overambitious as a consequence. In early 1988,
awarded construction contracts with approved FONAVI financing amounted to
about four times the annual production volume of FONAVI houses. The final
housing  costs  are  increased   by   costly  design  standards  which  are
traditionally used.   These  are  inappropriate  since beneficiaries do not
have the income to make the monthly payments necessary to pay for this type
of  housing.    The  authorities  are  forced  to  establish  lower monthly
payments,  thus  introducing  an  important  implicit  subsidy.    Mortgage
payments may become so low that in some cases the administrative costs
exceed the amounts recovered.   Although norms and regulations to sstablish
registries of beneficiaries exist in almost all provinces, the criteria for
selection of participants are unclear.    The  rules are usually so complex
that they leave ample room for arbitrary interpretation and as a result the
beneficiaries are not always the neediest, nor those who have the repayment
capacity required. Procurement is carried out by the IPVs. However, each
province  uses  different  bidding  documents   and  awards  at  time  lack
transparency.



C. Sectoral Issues
1.18     The inefficient  use  of  FONAVI  resources  constitutes  the main
sector issue. Houses built with FONAVI funds have traditionally borne
little relation to Lhat the beneficiaries and the country could afford. In
the last few years housing unit costs have been reduced from US$20,000 to
levels around US$14,000.  These costs  are   still too high.  PONAVI's main
objective to supply housing to the most needy groups has thus become
increasingly unattainable.   Criteria  for  selecting FONAVI recipients are
obscure and the system for awarding FONAVI houses has lacked transparency.
1.19     FONAVI's  policies  and  procedures  result  in  low  recovery  of
investments. In addition, the present system provides no incentive for
families to save for a house, since it generates expectations that a house
can be obtained almost for  free.    Monthly mortgage payments are low, and
erode rapidly with the  country's  high  inflation  rate.   This is because
payments are adjusted only twice a year according to an industrial wages
index. There has been little interest among construction companies in
keeping costs within established limits and contractors have little
incentive to introduce innovative solutions in designing and building
houses.
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.20     Bank involvement  in  the  sector  is  the  logical culmination of
several years of sector policy dialogue with the Government at a time when
the sector is experiencing an acute  shortage  of investment funds.  A 1987
UNDP-financed sector  study  identified  the  aforementioned  flaws  of the
Argentine housing sector.    The  study  demonstrated  that the gap between
demand and supply for affordable low-income housing had been widening for a
number of years as a result of the disappearance of a long-term capital
market for housing funds and the insufficient supply of FONAVI housing. The
end to Central Bank transfers to the BHN and a worsening of the FONAVI
finances in late 1987 (para. 2.43) has made Bank assistance especially
timely. By supporting far-reaching reforms of the sector's socioeconomic,
financial, institutional and technical policies, the Bank would endorse the
Government's objective of improving the allocation and effectiveness of
public housing investments.   The  proposed sector investment project would
improve capital recovery, ensure better use of scarce public funds and
strengthen SVOA's institutional capability.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.01     The Argentine Government  in  September 1987 requested significant
Bank support to the housing sector. The proposed project was identified in
late 1987 and was prepared by SVOA on the basis of studies requested by the
Bank  identification  mission.    The   preparatory  work  also  took  into
consideration the findings of the UNDP study for which Bank staff prepared
terms of reference and the Bank's review of the status of the Social
Sectors in Argentina (IBRD Report No. 6900-AR dated July 20, 1987).



2.02     The  Government  recognizes  that   the  complete  reform  of  the
Argentine housing system will require significant policy and procedural
changes to be developed  over  time.    On  this  basis, the Government has
prepared a Housing Policy Letter (para. 2.07 and Annex 3) which sets forth
the medium- and long-range objectives of its housing policy, which the Bank
supports. Progress in achieving the objectives of the program outlined in
this Policy Letter will be reviewed by the Bank (see paras. 2.21 and 2.48).
The proposed project should be seen as a first step towards concrete
cooperation in the housing sector.
B. ProJect Objectives
2.03     The overall objective of the proposed loan would be to sur  rt the
Government in its efforts to reform its sector policies and reuuce its
currenot housing deficit.
2.04     The  main  purposes  of   the   policy  reforms  are  to  increase
productivity of the housing programs  developed through FONAVI; improve the
financial performance of FONAVI and improve the targeting of subsidies.
2.05     The project would assist the  Government in achieving this by: (a)
increasing the number of houses built or improved; (b) reducing the unit
cost and time required to build new housing units; (c) redirecting and
reducing the public sector subsidies; (d) promoting and mobilizing savings
with special emphasis on the participation of intermediate groups, such as
cooperatives,  mutual  assistance   associations,  etc.;  (e)  establishing
standard nation-wide bidding procedures to ensure the transparency of the
procurement procedures; (f) ascertaining that newly built houses are
assigned based on criteria of need and previous savings; and (g) improving
the  administrative  and  financial  procedures  at  SVOA/FONAVI.   Several
measures would be introduced to improve the targeting of FONAVI: (a) new
provincial registries that would favor those families with a proven need
will be established, taking into account their capability to mobilize
savings (Annex 4); (b) the basic housing unit size, where the bulk of
FONAVI's investments will be concentrated, would be drastically reduced
from historical overly generous standards to 36 square meters for two-
bedroom units and 48 square meters for three-bedroom units, with maximum
unit costs at US$6,700 and US$8,500,  respectively.   The Bank may agree to
changes in these costs taking into account the impact of geographic and
climatic factors, cost of labor and other inputs in the technical
specifications of specific biddings. The maximum cost of the housing units
would be adjusted periodically in accordance with the Construction Cost
Index (para. 2.14 and Annex 5).    Until now most housing units constructed
under FONAVI had an area of at least 70 square meters; (c) the explicit
subsidy for the US$6,700 houses would be capped at 712 of the total amount
of the mortgage for the lowest 52 income percentile. The subsidies for
higher incomes would be capped at 57Z while the subsidy for the US$8,500
houses would be capped at 212, making them affordable to low-income
families (Annex 7).
2.06     The promotion  of  savings  by  the  potential beneficiaries would
reduce the initial debt of the families, thus mobilizing additional
resources for the sector and stimulating family and communal efforts to
obtain  a  new  house.      The   criteria  for  the  selection  of  housing
beneficiaries would give priority to those willing to save more and



- 8 -
contribute larger down payments.   Until recently, Argentina lacked savings
mechanisms which may ensure the current value of small savings. A system
has been recently approved by the Central Bank and would be utilized in
this project. Moreover, the introduction of a new loan recovery system
(para. 2.39-2.41 and Annex 7) is considered important.
C. Project Description
2.07     The  proposed  project  would  include  a  package  of  policy and
procedural improvements, as evidenced in the Government's Housing Policy
Statement, covering, inter alia:    (a)  the  establishment of national and
provincial registries of potential beneficiaries (Annex 4); (b) the
introduction of more economical housing through new designs; (c) the
requirement of lower unit costs; (d) the establishment of explicit and
transparent subsidies; (e) the promotion of savings through the requirement
of  down  payments;  (f)  the   improvement   of  cost  recovery;  (g)  the
modification of those norms that unduly restrict innovative and more
economical housing designs; (h) the introduction of improved and standard
bidding procedures; (i) the introduction of a new system of allocating
FONAVI funds among provinces according to effecti7e demand and other
factors, such as repayment record and IPV's effectiveness.
2.08     The proposed project  includes  the  construction  of about 39,000
two-bedroom houses, 20,500 three-bedroom houses, and the improvement and
rehabilitation of about 40,000 existing houses (Annex 11). Houses will be
built in drastically shorter periods than before (an average of 11 months
compared  to  the  previous  24-36   months),   and  their  costs  will  be
considerably lower.    The  Government  has  agreed  to  utilize  norms and
criteria, which would promote, through competition, a variety of designs
and construction techniques.   Procurement  methods, uniform throughout the
country, would ensure transparency of the bidding process.
2.09     A line of credit, up to 15Z of the base cost of the project, would
be  directed  to  improve  and  rehabilitate  sub-standard  housing.    The
upgrading of these housing units would require credits up to an amount
equivalent  to  US$1,800  each.    No  subsidy  would  be  granted  to  the
beneficiaries of these loans (paras. 2.14, 2.21 and 2.27).
2.10     The proposed  project  would  support  the  participation  of non-
governmental institutions such as cooperatives, mutual societies, unions,
etc. into the FONAVI system.    Their  participation has been considered in
the new procedure for selection of beneficiaries (Annex 4), taking into
account their capacity to mobilize savings and provide land and project
design.
2.11     The proposed project  would  also  include  a technical assistance
program to carry out studies and implement recommendations on several
aspects required to make SVOA a more capable and efficient organization,
with more modern and speedy procedures, including, inter alia, a modernized
sector information system; new procedures for the management and control of
FONAVI's portfolio; new procedures to collect and administer FONAVI's
resources, thus reducing evasion and increasing recoveries; new ways to
capture savings for the housing sector; and a more suitable and modern
legal framework for FONAVI operations  (Annex  8).   The Government and the



- 9 -
Bank will discuss the findings of all these studies and the Government will
prepare plans of action to put into effect their recommendations, taking
into account the Bank's comments (para 2.48).
2.12     The proposed policy  reforms,  to  be  implemented by SVOA through
FONAVI Resolutions (Secretariat Directives) would cover all future FONAVI
funded housing. As a consequence, the utilization of about US$1.9 billion
of FONAVI resources (over and above the project counterpart funds)(para.
2.15) would be affected by the proposed project policies in the next four
years. A portion not exceeding 1OZ of the FONAVI funds not committed as
counterpart in the proposed project could be used for other more expensive
types of housing solutions.   At  the  present time there are about 140,000
houses under construction  or  with  approved  FONAVI  funding.   For these
houses, SVOA would apply a method of cost recovery which would be similar
to the methods to be implemented under the proposed project but without
interest (para. 2.44).    In  all  cases,  the  houses  would be awarded to
beneficiaries who belong to lower income groups.
D. Project Costs
2.13     The total project cost  is  estimated at US$608 million equivalent
including US$38.6 million in taxes and duties. The total foreign exchange
cost is estimated at US$199.4 million, or 33Z of total costs. Costs are
based on December 1987 estimates which were updated to June 1988 prices.
The proposed Bank loan of US$300 million equivalent would finance 49Z of
these total costs. A suammary of project costs is presented in Table 2, and
details are given in Annex 10, Table 1.
Table 2: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(In US$ millions)
' of
Foreign
Exchange   Percent of
Components                    Local   Foreign   Total  Component  Base Costs
(1) Civil Works
A. Two-bedroom houses   149.9      88.0    237.9       37          46
B. Three-bedroom houses  98.3      55.3    153.6       36          30
(2)  Improvement Loans         39.4     23.1      62.5      35          12
(3)  Supervision               15.4     --        15.4      --           3
(4) Technical Assistance
and Auditing               5.3      2.8       8.1      35           2
Net Base Cost         308.3    169.3    477.6       35          92
Taxes and Duties          38.6     --        38.6      --           8
Total Base Cost          346.9    169.3    516.2       33         100
Physical Contingencies         34.7      16.9     51.6       33         10
Price Contingencies            27.0      13.2     40.2       33          8
Total Project Cost       408.6    199.4    608.0       33         118
X8=a:G m=                 ==



- 10 -
2.14      Cost estimates for the  two-  and three-bedroom housing units are
based on designs with updated prices from local distributors and suppliers
in the Province of  Buenos  Aires.    More  details  on quantities and unit
prices  are  included  in  Annex  5.    These  costs  include  basic  urban
infrastructure such as electricity, gas where applicable, water supply and
sewerage. A summary of the minimum requirements of the two- and three-
bedroom  houses  appears  in  Annex  5,  page  1.    The  minimum technical
specifications will be included in bidding documents. Bidders will then be
able to propose different types of designs, materials and technology to
comply with the minimum specifications within a fixed maximum price. The
unit cost for the house improvement loans has been estimated at US$1,800,
which is the cost of a sanitary unit of 8 m2, but beneficiaries may propose
other kinds of improvements within the above maximum. Costs for technical
assistance and other professional services are based on UNDP's experience
with locally and internationally recruited experts in the region. Costs
are expressed in US dollars because of the unpredictability of national
inflation and devaluation rates during the implementation period. Annual
rates  of  inflation   estimated   for   international   price  trends  for
manufactured goods and civil works were used to estimate the project's
price contingencies:   1988-90,  3Z;  1991  and  thereafter,  4Z.  Physical
contingencies averaging 82 have been added. The project's foreign exchange
component is estimated at 33Z.
E. Financing Plan
2.15      The total project cost  will  be  financed with the proposed Bank
loan of US$300.0 million (492), an estimated US$27.6 million (52) of
savings from the beneficiaries, and US$280.4 million (46X) from FONAVI.
The proposed loan would be made at the standard variable interest rate with
repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace. It would cover 1002
of the foreign exchange cost and approximately 252 of local costs. Local
cost financing is recommended because of the current financial constraints
of FONAVI (para. 2.43) and serious fiscal constraints of the Government.
It is also recommended because of the high social and institutional impact
of the proposed project, in line with decisions already adopted for the
Public Sector Management Technical Assistance, Municipal Development and
Social Sectors Management Technical Assistance Projects in Argentina.
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ millions)
Source                   Local         Foreign             Total          2
Bank                     100.6           199.4               300.0        49
FONAVI                   280.4            ---                280.4        46
Beneficiaries             27.6            ---                 27.6         5
TOTAL                    408.6           199.4               608.0       100
Percentage (X)            67              33                 100



- 11 -
F. Design of 'Works
2.16     CGrrent costs of housing financed  by FONAVI would be drastically
reduced by application of the following criteria agreed with SVOA: (a)
reduction in low cost housing standards so that units with two or three
bedrooms, living and dining rooms, kitchen and bath could be built in a
minimum area; (b) exclusion of interior finishings, which the beneficiary
could do in the future; (c) reduction in size of each plot, within
municipal urban regulations; (d) public competitive bidding with fixed
price and terms, including all costs (land, internal infrastructure,
construction, design, taxes, etc.); (e) reduction of time of execution of
the works; (f) timely payments to contractors in line with the physical and
financial programming of the works; and (g) flexibility in housing design
to allow the use of materials and other regional comparative advantages,
thus minimizing cost differences  among  provinces.   Other measures agreed
with SVOA, i.e., shifting as much as possible to construction companies the
responsibilities for selecting and purchasing the land, for the design, for
the selection of the materials and the technology to be used, would assist
the construction companies to build more efficiently and would free IPVs'
staff to carry out improved supervision.
2.17      For the purposes of public  bidding,  the  land could be owned by
the IPVs or contributed, as a down payment to the IPVs by cooperatives,
"mutuales,a and other non-profit organizations.  The construction companies
could also use their own land.  In the first case, the cost of the land and
technical description would be  included  in  the  bidding documents, to be
considered by all bidders in  their  cost  estimates.   In the case of land
owned by the construction companies, the cost would be made explicit and
will be included in the total bid cost.
2.18      Loans for home improvement or rehabilitation would be provided to
individuals who already have title to their property. These loans would be
provided by SVOA through BHN or other financial agents satisfactory to the
Bank, with SVOA assuming the loan repayment risk. The loans would be for
five years, adjusted monthly and with a real interest rate of 8.73Z per
year, plus a charge to cover the financial agent's administrative costs
(paras. 2.21 and 2.24).
G. Implementation
2.19      The project would be  implemented  by  the Secretariat of Housing
and  Environmental  Management  (SVOA)   and   by  the  Provincial  Housing
Institutes (IPVs) (Annex  2).    SVOA  is  weakly  staffed.    A program of
institutional strengthening, included in the technical assistance component
(Annex  8),  aims  at   reinforcing   its   capabilities  and  improve  its
performance.
2.20      An  Advisory  Committee  (AC),  attached  to  the  office  of the
Secretary of Housing, would be established and staffed by four consultants,
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and appointed in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines, and by three high level graduates of the
Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publicas (Public Service Institute).
The AC would assist the Secretary on pro4ect monitoring, reporting and as a
liaison with the Bank.    Horeover,. SVOA  would assign responsibilities to
specific individuals in its line departments to carry out project related
activities. This staff would be strengthened with up to four senior staff



- 12 -
in light of the added responsibilities of these units. In addition, IPVs'
staff would be seconded on a temporary basis to SVOA to reinforce line
departments  and  exchange  experience.    The  AC  would  maintain working
relations  with  the  Secretariat's   line   units  and  assist  them  with
specialized  support  as  necessary.    The  AC  would  prepare  and submit
implementation progress reports to be submitted to the Bank, not later than
30 days after the end of each trimester, which would include inter alia
monitoring  information  on   procurement   and   every  six  months  would
consolidate all provincial evaluations (para. 2.46(e)). The AC would also
ensure that selection and appointment of consultants for the technical
assistance component follow Bank guidelines and would include in the
reports to the Bank information on progress on their specific tasks and
studies. The IPVs are generally well staffed and most of them have the
necessary capability to develop properly their activities but their quality
and efficiency vary widely  (Annex  2).    The technical assistance program
would also increase their project administration capacity through the
improvement of their management information systems. Moreover, special,
semi-annual, performance evaluations of the IPVs would make effective Bank
supervision manageable.    These  evaluations  would  aim  to monitor IPVs'
compliance with operative and financial efficiency indicators (Annex 6) and
with legal agreements related to cost recovery, unit costs, selection of
beneficiaries, price savings and bidding procedures.
2.21      The Borrower for the  proposed  Bank  loan would be the Argentine
Republic. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992
(Annex 11). The Government's progress in implementing its Housing Policy
Letter, the project, and the new FONAVI Resolutions, would be monitored
during project supervision and reviewed periodically with the Government.
As a minimum, there will  be  an  annual  review.    The Bank and SVOA have
agreed upon the key indicators to be used in connection with these annual
reviews (Annex 6).    The  proceeds  of  the  proposed  loan, together with
FONAVI's own resources and beneficiaries' down payments, would finance the
full cost of the housing units to be constructed or improved under the
project. FONAVI would assume the cross-currency exchange risk and the US
dollar exchange risk. The proceeds of the loan would be made available to
the IPVs in accordance with allocation criteria satisfactory to the Bank
(paras. 2.07 and 2.37), under participating agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, which would define the IPV's obligations, including the recovery of
the loans made to the beneficiaries (paras. 2.24, 2.40 and 2.41). The
funds so recovered are to be returned to SVOA (para. 2.37).
H. Disbursements
2.22      Disbursements would be made for:    (a) 502 of total expenditures
for civil works and loans made to beneficiaries for home improvement; (b)
1002  for  total  expenditures   for   technic&l  assistance  and  training
(including consulting services and contract hiring); (c) 10OZ for total
expenditures for auditing services of the project's accounts (when provided
by a private firm under contract satisfactory to the Bank); and (d) 1002 of
foreign expenditures for imported equipment and 802 of total costs for
locally procured equipment. Loan funds would be disbursed over a period of
about five years and the Closing Date would be June 30, 1993. The
projected disbursement schedule is in line with other housing projects in
the Region and is  given  in  Annex  12.    The  proposed loan would have a
relatively rapid disbursement rate because of the drastic reduction (to



- 13 -
less than one year) of the construction period. Disbursements would be
made on the basis of full contractual documentation in the case of studies
and technical assistance and for all local currency contracts valued at the
equivalent of US$500,000 or more, and for foreign currency expenditures
contracts valued at US$50,000 or  more.    All other disbursements wou:d be
made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOE). The
documentation for the SOE expenditures would not be sent to the Bank but
would be retained by SVOA and made available to the Bank upon request. The
first two contracts for civil works would, however, be fully reviewed by
the Bank. Disbursements under these two first contracts would be made
using the SOE procedure provided the amounts of the contracts fall within
the above-mentioned limit. A Special Account in US dollars would be set up
at the Central Bank of Argentina in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.   The  initial  deposit  to  the  Special Account would be for
US$15.0 million, which represents an estimated four months of expenditures
under the loan. The Special Account would be managed by SVOA. Withdrawals
would be made by SVOA in local currency at the rate of exchange applicable
on the day the corresponding expenditure payments were made if such
payments were made, within 90 days prior to the request for withdrawal from
the  Special  Account.    Otherwise,  the  exchange  rate  of  the  date of
withdrawal would apply.
2.23      Expenditures would be disbursed for the aforementioned categories
of expenses up to a total of US$150.0 million of the proceeds of the
proposed loan. The release of disbursements subsequently would be subject
to compliance by SVOA of conditions relating to its operational and
financial performance (see para. 2.47 and 2.48).
2.24      There would be no Bank disbursement for the cost of land, design,
supervision and project  administration  costs.    Retroactive financing of
US$2.0 million would be provided for technical assistance, equipment
contracts and pilot civll works contracts concluded after April 30, 1988
which was required for an early initiation of the project. Execution of
participating agreements between SVOA and the IPVs would be a condition of
disbursement for civil works in  each  Province.   Further, execution of an
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between SVOA and BHN or other
financial institution acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement for the home improvement loans program.
I. Procurement
2.25      The Government has agreed  to utilize uniform procurement methods
throughout the country to ensure transparency of the bidding process.
Procurement for works and goods with Bank financing will be carried out
under a standard bidding document which is in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines (May 1985). Procurement for works with FONAVI funds
only will be carried out under a similar standard bidding document, except
that this document determines that local law would govern, which implies
that bids would be awarded to the bidder whose offer has been found the
"most convenient". This concept will be defined in the bidding document to
make it closer to Bank practice.
2.26      The bidding documents will  include,  inter  alia, a deadline for
concluslon of a housing project (an -verage of .l months); penalties for
delays in project execution; and adequate cost escalation clauses, in view
of the high inflation environment.



- 14 -
2.27      With regard to  procurement  under  Bank guidelines, goods (which
correspond to office equipment for the technical assistance component)
costing  US$25,000   equivalent   or   less   would   be  procured  through
international or local shopping, involving at least three price quotations.
This is expected to account for approximately US$60,000 equivalent or 0.011
of total project costs.   Goods  costing  more than US$25,000 but less than
US$250,000 equivalent would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, and would represent approximately
US$90,000 equivalent, or 0.01Z of  total  costs.   Procurement of all goods
costing  US$  250,000  equivalent  or  more  representing  about US$800,000
equivalent to 0.1Z of total project costs would be through International
Competitive  Bidding  (ICB)   in   agreement   with   Bank  Guidelines  for
Procurement. Civil works costing up to US$ 2,000,000 equivalent would
account for approximately US$498.7 million equivalent, or 822 of total
project costs, and would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Although no contract for civil works is expected to cost more
than US$2 million equivalent, if this were to occur, such contracts would
be procured through ICB in agreement with the Bank Guidelines for
Procurement (1985). The project would also finance about US$ 79.6 million,
or 13% of total project costs, in home improvement loans, which would be
granted directly to beneficiaries who would make material purchases from
local suppliers (para. 2.18).    Consultant  and auditing services, with an
equivalent cost of about US$9,000,000, some 21 of total project costs,
would  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  Bank's  Guidelines.   These
procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.
Table 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS */
(US Million of February 1988) b/
Procurenent                           Total
Uethod       Local                 Valu-
Project Category/Element     ICB     LCB   Shopping  Other  N.A. Procurement
1. Civil Works                       498.7                         498.7
(249.8)                       (249.86)
2. Hoem Improvement Loans                            79.6           79.6
(89.8)        (89.8)
S. Supervlsion                                              19.7   19.7
(0)    (0)
4. Office Equipment         0.80     0.09    0.06                    1.0
(0.80)   (0.06)  (0.04)                 (0.9)
S. Technical Assistance                               6.00           6.0
Consulting Services e/                            (6.00)         (6.0)
6. Auditing c/                                        8.0            8.0
(3. 0)         (8.0)
0.80    498.8   0.06    88.6  19.7   608
(0.80)   (249.4) (0.04)   (48.8)  (O)    (800)
*/ IBRD shere in parenthsis.
b/ Totals mey not add up due to rounding.
c Technical assistance and Auditing procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
NOTE:  The N.A. refers to costs for supervision of civil works (estimated at 4X of total
works' costs) but the Dank would not disburse against thlo category.



- 15 -
2.28      The Advisory Committee (AC)  (para.  2.20) would review, ex-ante,
all procurement procedures, documents, bid evaluations and contract awards
to ensure that the agreed procurement process is properly carried out. Inf
addition, all the ICB procedures, documents, bid evaluation and contract
awards would  be  reviewed  ex-ante  by  the  Bank.    In  order  to ensure
compliance with Bank procurement guidelines, the AC would submit, during
the first year of project execution one randomly selected LCB procurement
package from each participating IPV, each costing at least US$500,000, for
ex-ante Bank review, including bid docuwrents, evaluation and contract
awards. If, after the first year of project implementation, the Bank's
supervision indicates that the agreed procurement procedures are being
satisfactorily followed, then the Bank's ex-ante review of LCB bid
procedures would be reduced to six randomly selected LCB procurement
packages from six different provinces per year. In all cases, however, the
Bank would review LCB, international and local shopping on an ex-post basis
by sample  surveys.    If  such  surveys  revealed  that agreed procurement
procedures had not been followed, then no expenditures for such items would
be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, and the Bank would cancel the
corresponding loan amount.
J. Financial Analysis and Loan Recovery System
2.29     FONAVI Revenue.  FONAVI receives  its  funding from a 52 levy paid
by the employer on the salaries of all public and private employees, from
all self-employed workers in an amount of ZOZ of their social security
contributions, and from investment income, primarily debt service from the
mortgages on FONAVI housing units.   The 52 payroll levy provides about 942
of FONAVI's receipts, and the levy on the self-employed workers another 5Z.
Annual receipts from mortgage payments comprise less than 12 of total
annual FONAVI revenues.
2.30     Private  companies   are   obligated   to   deposit  their  FONAVI
contributions into the accounts that the National Directorate of Social
Security (DNRP) maintains in the banking system. Receiving banks should
transfer the FONAVI funds within 24 hours into the master account that the
DNRP has in the Banco de la Nacion. The funds are later transferred to the
FONAVI account in the Banco Hipotecario Nacional (BHN). Public entities
pay the FONAVI levy in different ways. The National Treasury, on behalf of
the Central Government and decentralized agencies, pays their contributions
directly into the FONAVI account  in  BHN.       The provincial and municipal
governments pay their FONAVI obligations at the provincial branch offices
of BHN that transfer the funds to the FONAVI master account in the Banco
Hipotecario Nacional. BHN thus acts as the financial agent of FONAVI.
2.31     Deficiencies of FONAVI Revenue  Flows.   FONAVI receipts are based
upon the wages and salaries earned by FONAVI tax payers in a given year and
are difficult to project  accurately.    The  problem  is compounded by the
significant underground economy and widespread tax evasion. The precarious
financial positions of the central, provincial and municipal governments
put an additional financial burden upon the system. In many cases, they
have diverted their funds earmarked for FONAVI contributions to capital and
recurrent expenditures.   SVOA  estimates  that  provincial and other local
governments currently owe approximately US$160 million to FONAVI. These
problems  can  be  attributed   mainly   to  poor  record-keeping  for  tax



- 16 -
collections, lack of adequate staff and equipment, poor follow-up systems
and weak penalties  for  non-compliance.    The  DNRP has estimated overall
evasiorn of the FONAVI levy at about 152 for the employee contributions and
about 352 for the contributions from the self-employed. Perhaps even more
seriously, the real yield of the FONAVI levies are sensitive to Argentina's
high inflation rates in two ways. First, the penalty for not paying FONAVI
levies on time is fixed at a nominal 102 per month and capped at 302 for
delays of more than two months.    Whenever the return of short-term liquid
investments exceeds the 102 monthly penalty, employers may delay their
FONAVI payments to maximize their returr on liquid assets. For example, in
February 1988 short-term bank deposits were yielding 122 monthly. As a
result, FONAVI receipts drop during times of high inflation. Second, the
often lengthy collections and transfer procedures of FONAVI receipts,
(currently ranging from 60 to 90 days), coupled with high inflation rates,
erode the real value of FONAVI's income.
2.32     FONAVI Expenditures.    FONAVI  finances  the  construction of the
housing programs via the Provincial Housing Institutes (IPVs). The IPVs
bid and award the construction of the housing projects subject to SVOA's
certification that  FONAVI  will  finance  them.    The  IPVs supervise and
certify the construction progress and obtain funds from SVOA to pay the
contractors. After the houses have been finished and awarded to the
beneficiaries, the latter assume the obligation of repaying a portion of
the cost of the house to the IPVs, in accordance with their ability to pay
(proportion of household  income  for  payment).    The  IPVs, in turn, are
obligated to repay FONAVI on a schedule that, without inflation, would
recover the original cost, without interest, of the house. With decreasing
real incomes and high inflation in the economy, there is an obvious
discrepancy between IPV mortgage revenue and IPV obligations to FONAVI,
generally  resulting  in  IPV  arrears.    Although  FONAVI  has  the legal
authority to lay claim to Provincial revenue sharing to cover these
arrears, it has never  done  so.    Thus,  the original objective of making
FONAVI a revolving housing fund has failed. Annex 13, Chart 1 illustrates
the current revenue and expenditure flows of the FONAVI system.
2.33     Operating  expenditure  for  SVOA  is  provided  from  the Central
Government budget. Operating funds for the IPVs come from the provincial
government  budget  and  from   a   three  percent  administration  fee  on
implemented works and a one percent fee on loan collection which they
charge against  FONAVI  funding.    This  fee  arrangement  has enabled IPV
salaries to be higher than in the provincial government for similar
categories of employment. Consequently, it has led to higher quality staff
being recruited by the IPVs, with a lower turnover rate.
2.34     Deficiencies  of  FONAVI  Loan  Recovery.    The  exceedingly  low
recovery of FONAVI loans is due mainly to: (a) underpricing of the units
being sold; (b) mortgages that do not carry interest and are not protected
against inflation; and (c) a poor portfolio information and collection
system. Also, housing beneficiaries eften do not receive clear title to
their houses, which makes it difficuit for the IPVs to initiate legal
proceedings against those who are late in their payments.
2.35     With respect to portfolio management,  most IPVs actively bill and
implement follow-up measures in order to assure beneficiary repayment.
However, because of the Housing Law's provision of not charging interest



- 17 -
rates, and the government's past policy of capping payments and indexing
them only bi-annually to the industrial wage index, inflation has made the
value of many mortgage payments less than the cost of col'ecting such
payments.  Facing  this  unsatisfactory  situation, SVOA passed regulations
for minimum mortgage payments of about US$10 equivalent in 1987. Although
this could be interpreted as violating existing contracts, compliance has
been relatively good. If this measure is not sustained, the IPVs dispose
of low-yield mortgages (e.g., by arranging with the borrower for a lump sum
payment, handing them over to municipalities for collection with other
utility charges, or even writing them off).
2.36     Proposed FONAVI Flow-of-Funds.   Under  the Bank project, measures
would be introduced to speed up the transfer of FONAVI levies from the time
they are received until they are available in the FONAVI account in BHN.
(para. 2.46(a)). Likewise, ways to reduce evasion and tardy payments of
the FONAVI levy would be agreed (para. 2.46(b)).
2.37     The reduction in  evasion  and  tardy  payments  would be achieved
through  two  key   initiatives:   (a)   decentralization  of  the  primary
responsibility for mortgage collections to the IPVs; and (b) competition in
billing procedures. A fundamental proposed change in the FONAVI flow of
funds would be the introduction of a system of incentives by which SVOA may
reward efficient IPVs through the allocation criteria. This would increase
the IPV's incentive to implement effectively the new mortgage procedure
(para 2.38 below). In the short term, to emphasize the need to increase
IPV responsibility, portfolio cost recovery would be an important element
in allocation of FONAVI funds among Provinces and of eligibility to
participate  in  the  Bank-financed   program  (para.  2.46(d)).    Another
important feature of this decentralization would be to make each IPV
responsible for collection procedures and follow-up. Each IPV would decide
on its financial agent: i.e.  private,  provincial or national banks (e.g.,
BHN) would compete for the task and earn commissions.
2.38     To  support  these  reforms,   the  proposed  project  contains  a
technical assistance program aimed  at  strengthening the FONAVI/IPV system
as a whole (Pee Annex  8).    With  improved record and monitoring systems,
better-trained staff and appropriate follow-up and penalty actions in
place,  FONAVI  tax  evasion  and   arrears   in  loan  payments  could  be
substantially reduced.  At the IPV  level,  a review of nine IPVs indicates
that the quality of their recording, costing, management and monitoring and
control systems varies substantially, and requires periodical management
evaluations (para. 2.46(e) and technical assistance, as well as special
safeguards for Bank financing (para. 2.46(c) and (d)).
K.    Proposed New Mortgage Repayment System
2.39     The proposed new  system  aims  at  establishing  the basis for an
overall re-orientation of policies regarding cost recovery, with all
subsidies  being  explicit  and  clearly  quantifiable.    Given  the  long
tradition  of  implicit   subsidies,   along  with  existing  socioeconomic
conditions, the new system will need to be phased in stages increasingly
reducing the level of explicit subsidy of beneficiaries.
2.40     Two key  mortgage  policy  reforms  are  proposed:  (a)  method of
subsidy calculation; and (b) indexation of mortgage payments. Regarding



- 18 -
subsidy calculation, the proposed policy would replace an implicit subsidy
determined by capping mortgage payments to a proportion of reported family
income, with an explicit subsidy based on full mortgage repayment, and
after taking into account a minimum level of household savings applied to
home purchase. In order to proceed within the current FONAVI Law it is
recommended as practical in the short-term to determine the mortgage
subsidy based on beneficiary income and allocate the subsidy over time in a
transparent fashiont, thus producing an annuity with a present value equal
to the full cost of the unit, less beneficiary down payments, less the
subsidy  determined  up-front.      This   would  represent  a  considerable
improvement over current practices, primarily in that the IPVs would have
greater leverage in collections and avoiding beneficiary resale in order to
cash in their subsidies (currently the IPVs cannot include first buy-back
option claims). Annex 7, Table 1 summarizes key features of the current
and proposed systems, while Annex 7, Table 2 illustrates how the proposed
new system would operate.
2.41     The  second  policy  reform   refers  to  indexation  of  mortgage
payments. Under the current system, even when payments never reach the
family income proportion cap, repayment does not include any interest;
semi-srunual payments are calculated simply by dividing the outstanding
amount by twice the number of years for amortization (up to 40 years).
Under the FONAVI Law, these payments may be indexed only according to the
Industrial Wage Index (ISPI), on a semi-annual basis. Under the proposed
project, all new (not already legally committed) housing financed with
FONAVI funds, would have the following characteristics:
- real, annual interest rate of 8.72;
- maximum repayment period of 25 years;
- semi-annual payments replacea with monthly payments; indexed to
expected inflation over the six month period, with accounting
adjustments for actual inflation, as measured by the ISPI, made
at the end of each period;
2.42     Projected Financial Viability of FO:AVI.    In order to ensure the
financial viability of FONAVI over the project implementation period
1989-1992, and beyond,  two  conditions  must  hold:   (a) the consolidated
FONAVI funds would guarantee annual surpluses that could be applied as
counterpart funds t.o the Bank disbursements and as a complement to the
anticipated household saAngs; and (b) as a result of the policy reforms
under the Bank loan, FONAVI should be able to guarantee incremental
revenues, at least sufficient to service the Bank debt. The latter is
equivalent to requiring that FONAVI's capacity to finance a given volume of
houses should not be impaired by the borrowing from the Bank.
2.43     Available  Counterpart  Funds.    Annex  13,  Table  1  provides a
consolidated flow of funds, actual for the years 1985-198i and projected
for the years 1988-1995. Past annual surpluses have been quite irregular,
with a sharp increase in 1986 over 1985 due primarily to the Austral Plan.
In 1987, net  resources  turned  negative.    The  explanation is two-fold.
First, the yield of the FONAVI payroll tax decreased in real terms by about
8Z between 1986 and 1987 due to higher inflation rates in the economy.



- 19 -
Second, and more importantly, the amount of resources allocated to housing
units initiated or completed rose by about 622 between 1986 and 1987. The
result was a short-term liquidity crisis that could have been avoided with
a  programming  of  works   that   considered   more  fully  the  financial
consequences of approving too many requests from the IPVs for financing.
2.44     It should  be  emphasized  that  the  new  SVOA  administration is
operating with a very serious lack of consistent, reliable data on the
status of past operations it has financed (termed *old pre;raml here), on
operations to which it is cortmitted (as of 12/31/87) but that have not been
formally transferred to beneficiaries ("transition program"), and on
operations that are planned but not committed ("new program"). From the
financial perspective, the old program is essentially a sunk cost and only
historic levels of cost recovery may be expected. The transition program,
however, is key to the project's financial feasibility, especially with
regard to the availability of counterpart funds, in the short run. The
transition program is estimated to be 140,000 units, at average costs
ranging  from  US$13,000  to  US$16,000  equivalent.    These  will require
approximately Us$880 million equivalent over 1989/91 to complete. For
these units, SVOA will apply a transitory repayment system, which includes
previous  savings,  monthly  debt   service   adjustment  but  no  interest
(Resolution 120 of May 23, 1988).   It should be noted that the new housing
commitment process begins in the IPVs, and there is a serious time lag,
caused by a poor to nonexistent SVOA information system, before SVOA learns
of its potential new commitments.    As  the  FONAVI Flow of Funds Analysis
over  the  1989/92   period   {X-monstrates,   there  should  be  sufficient
counterpart funds for the proposed Bank operation if: (a) FONAVI baseline
tax receipts (without reforms introduced under the project) stabilize from
1988 forward at approximately US$690 million equivalent (or 93Z of the
average for 1985/87); and (b) the transition program does not require more
than  approximately  US$0.5  billion  equivalent  in  1989,  US$0.3 billion
equivalent in 1990 and about US$80 million in 1991 to be completed (see
Annex 13, Table 1, and Chart 3 for detailed assu,nptions used for the flow
of funds analysis). In order to ensure that these assumptions are met,
dt"ring appraisal: (a) SVOA notified all IPVs that SVOA would not agree to
f-inance any additional transition program requests; and (b) it was agreed
that only those provinces which have awarded all the houses of the
transitional program would be eligible to participate in the FONAVI/IBRD
program.
2.45     Incremental FONAVI Revenues.  The proposed project would introduce
the following key financial reforms (for details, see Annex 7 and Annex 13,
Table 2):
(a)  implementation of "FONAVI Tax Compliance Plans" through which SVOA
would reach agreement with the Provinces regarding the amounts
owed to FONAVI by each Province and its respective sub-provincial
governments  on  account   of   employers'  contribution.    These
agreements would include a plan and timetable concerning the
payment of such tax to be complied with by the municipalities as a
condition of the availability of FONAVI funds in the jurisdiction
of those provinces and municipalities;
(b)  through improvements in FONAVI portfolio management financed under
the project, improved annual cost recovery from FONAVI's "old
program" by 102 over historical (baseline) levels; and



- 20 -
(c) application of a transition repayment system (para. 2.44) to
140,000 houses, with payment arrears for this program not greater
than 40? in FY89 and FY90 and 352 in all fiscal years thereafter.
Estimates of the financial impact of these reforms is presented in Annex
13, Table 2, where the incremental revenues are limited to the project
induced  improvements  over   the   baseline  (continuation  of  historical
patterns) of Table 1, Annex 13. These are compared with expected recurrent
expenditures (increased operational expenses and debt servicel ) resulting
from the proposed project, and produce an estimated incremental, net
financial flow of about US$80 million per year beginning in 1993. Table 2,
Annex 12 also demonstrates that, with the successful financial management
reforms applied to a FONAVI tax base and transitional housing program
commitments as stated in para. 2.44, the following relationships are
feasible:
(a)  incremental rev .nues  introduced  under  the  project  would be at
least two tl!et the total FONAVI debt service from 1993 forward;
(b)  after fulfilling its commitments  to  the transitional program and
to the new FONAVI/IBRD program over 1989/92, FONAVI would have a
"surplus" for "independent housing" of almost US$750 million
equivalent beginning in 1993, at the current 52 levy on salaries;
(c)  the FONAVI tax  could  be  reduced  to  42  (without expanding the
taxable base)  in  1993,  and  FONAVI  still  could finance almost
100,000 units  (at  the  lower  unit  costs  introduced  under the
project) per year, which meets SVOA's current estimate of the
needed annual supply of "social housing", requiring some form of
subsidy.
2.46    In summary,  with  the  financial  management  reforms provided for
under the project, FONAVI is projected to: (a) have uncommitted funds
sufficient to apply as counterpart financing to Bank financing and to
beneficiaries' savings; and (b) emerge financially stronger as a result of
borrowing from the Bank, with sufficient funds, after servicing its debt,
to finance fully SVOA's current estimates of the needed supply of tightly-
targetted  subsidized  housing.       For   these  outcomes  to  materialize,
assurances would be obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  FONAVI tax collections,  from  June  30,  1989,  forward, would be
available to FONAVI  within  a  maximum  of  20 working days after
actual payment of the contributions by the employers and the self-
employed;
(b)  within seven months  from  the  date  of  loan effectiveness, SVOA
would, through agreements with the Provinces or other measures
satisfactory to the Bank, put into effect a timetable fo
implementation of a "FONAVI Tax Compliance Plan" by the Provinces
(para. 2.15) acceptable to the Bank. Similar agreements would be
1 For purposes of monitoring the. project's impact, para. 2.46, it is
recommended that the debt service of the ongoing IDB loan be included,
as well as any other debt service obligations that may be contracted.



- 21 -
reached with the municipalities within 14 months from the date of
loan effectiveness;
(c) SVOA would ensure that the IPVs take all actions necessary to have
arrears2 not greater than 402 for the transition program during
1989 and 1990, and 35Z thereafter;
(d) only those provinces with arrears for their total FONAVI portfolio
below 402 in 1989 and 1990 and 352 in 1991 onward would be
eligible  to  participate  in   the   FONAVI/IBRD  program.    The
allocation of the FONAVII1BRD funds among the eligible provinces
would favor those provinces with demonstrated financial management
efficiency; and
(e) semi-annual management evaluations would be performed in each IPV
by   consultants/auditors   with   these   evaluations   including
compliance with FONAVI Resolutions on cost recovery, unit cost,
provincial allocation criteria, beneficiary selection criteria,
procurement arrangements, in line with agreed key indicators
(Annex 6 and para. 2.49).
2.47    Further  assurances  of  satisfactory  implementation  of financial
management  improvements   would   be   conditions   for   the  release  of
disbursements after the initial US$150 million:
(a) substantial progress, satisfactory to the Bank, on implementation
of the "FONAVI Tax Compliance Plans" (para. 2.46); and
(b) incremental revenue improvements over the total revenues during
the period May 1, 1987 to April 30, 1988 (as measured on a cash
basis) directly attributable to the project (improved FONAVI tax
collection  from  sub-national   governments,  and  improved  cost
recovery in transition and new FONAVI/IBRD programs, para. 2.45)3
would be at least double the entire FONAVI debt service payable4
2  Defined  as  accounts  receivable   from   mortgage  payments  that  are
delinquent for more than three months.
3  Incremental (with  project)  improvements  would  be  measured  from the
following  baseline  (without   project)   estimates:    Provincial  and
Municipal FONAVI tax payments prior to loan effectiveness and receipts
from baseline mortgages (zero interest rate) prior to implementation of
the T.A. program financed under the project (Annex 12, tables 1 and 2).
4  Measured on an  accrual  basis  for  the  IDB  loan  and  any other debt
obligation FONAVI may contract. For the exclusive purpose of monitoring
the financial impact of the proposed loan, the IBRD debt service
obligation would be calculated according to the IBRD loan repayment
terms in effect for Argentina. prior to April 12, 1988 (15 years
repayment, including three of grace).



- 22 -
during the 12 months previous to the date in which the initial
US$150.0 million tranche  has  became  fully    withdrawn from the
project's loan account.
2.48     Satisfactory progress in carrying out  the program as described in
the Housing Policy Letter, the project and the FONAVI Resolutions dealing
with loan repayment, eligibility for housing loans, cost, size and other
specifications of housing units, national registry of beneficiaries,
bidding procedures, allocation of FONAVI funds, collection procedures and
participation of non-governmental institutions, will also be a condition of
release of disbursements after the initial US$150 million. Moreover,
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the recommendations of the
studies carried out under the technical assistance program (Annex 8) will
also be a condition for releasing disbursements after the initial US$150
million.
L. Accounts and Audits
2.49     The Special Account (para.  2.22)  would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. They would submit every year a report on
this account not later than April 30th, following the close of each
financial year. SVOA and each IPV would establish project accounts to
allow clear identification of the cost and financing of items financed by
the proposed Bank loan. BHN or the other financial agents would also keep
separate accounts for the home improvement loans program. Accounting
records would be available for review by Bank supervision. These accounts
would be annually audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
At present such audits would be acceptable if carried out by the Tribunal
de Cuentas de la Nacion, in case of SVOA, and by external, independent
auditors, as required by the Bank and in accordance with terms of reference
reviewed by the Bank. Their reports would include opinions on SOEs and on
compliance with relevant Loan Agreements provisions. All audited reports
would be sent to the Bank four months after the end of each fiscal year.
The Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas (SIGEP) and private auditors,
acceptable to the Bank under contract with SIGEP, would carry out: (i) the
audit of all the IPVs; and (ii) semi-annual management evaluation, in line
with agreed key indicators (Annex 6).
III. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic and Fiscal Benefits
3.01     On the economic side, the  project  would  provide on the order of
60,000 additional houses and some 40,000 existing houses would be upgraded
and expanded. Under past FONAVI policies, the same amount of funding would
have provided only about 28,000 houses, or a third as many. The project's
drastic reduction in costs would be possible through better procurement and
project  administration,  and   economical   housing   designs  using  more
appropriate construction technologies and building materials. The economic
feasibility of the provision of the some 100,000 housing solutions is
measured by the internal rates of return for the different components. The
rates of return are estimated to be about 16Z for two bedroom houses and
17Z for  three  bedroom  houses.    The  rate-of-return  for  the upgrading
component of the project  is  19Z.    Sensitivity  analysis shows that even



- 23 -
under the most adverse scenario where benefits would be 151 lower and costs
would be 15Z higher the rates of return would not drop below 102
(Annex 14).
3.02     The  productivity  improvement  could  also  be  measured  by  the
increase in living space area provided under the project. The project
investments would be equivalent to about a total of 2.7 million square
meters. Under present FONAVI policies the same amount of funds would
produce only about 1.8 million  square  meters.  The project's productivity
improvement is thus about 50?.
3.03     Other economic benefits are provided  by the sharper targetting of
subsidies under the project and the employment creation. The project would
target subsidies to those earning  up  to  the  40th income percentile.  In
contrast, under the present policies, subsidies are not transparent and are
available up to the 80th income percentile of the population. The project
could also be expected to create in the order of 180,000 man-years of
employment which would in the main benefit the lower-earning segments of
the population. The combined effect of the better targeted subsidies and
the creation of employment could be expected to result in a more equal
income distribution.
3.04     Environmental Impact.    The  proposed  project  would improve the
environment in the  project  areas.    First,  the  project  would ease the
congestion in the present living quarters of the future beneficiaries of
project houses. Second, the project would provide all new houses with
piped water supply and sewerage connections which would improve the present
unsanitary conditions.  The  housing  developments  to be constructed would
require a certification  from  the  provincial  or  local  water supply and
sewerage authorities that  the  additional  water  and sewerage connections
could be  accommodated  within  the  available  production and distribution
capacities.
3.05     Fiscal Benefits.  The  project  could  be  expected to improve the
housing sector's fiscal  deficit  through  its  lower overall subsidies and
higher savings and recuperation of  mortgages.    At the present time, down
payments are not required  from  beneficiaries  of FONAVI housing and loans
are interest free.  Only about  1Z  of  annual investments flow back to the
system in the form of mortgage payments from housing beneficiaries. The
level of recoveries would improve under the project. First, an average
down payment of 6.52 from beneficiaries would be recuperated in real terms.
Second, 402 of the remaining costs of the two-bedroom houses, 80 for
three-bedroom houses and 10O2 of housing improvement loans would be
recuperated in real terms. The fiscal situation will be improved since the
FONAVI housing output will substitute for BHN low-cost housing programs
(Plan Centenario, Plan Techo) which in the past have been financed with
Central Bank overdrafts. Over time the net result is expected to be lower
pressure on the fiscal situation for a comparable level of housing
production, either in the form of a lower fiscal deficit or through the
possibility to lower the level of earmarked FONAVI taxes. The Government
has indicated its willingness to study the possibility of lowering the
level of the FONAVI tax and substituting higher personal savings and higher
level of recovery of FONAVI mortgages houses for lost tax revenue (Annex 8,
III, d).



- 24 -
B. Urban Poverty Impact
3.06     The  project  beneficiaries  will  be  limited  to  those families
earning up to an equivalent of about US$3,360 per annum in prices of
October 1986 (Annex 9), corresponding to the 40th income-percentile of the
population. At present the FONAVI system is accessible up to the 80 income
percentile of all households. The subsidies under the project would amount
to a weighted average of 572 for those with a family income of US$150 per
month. The mortgage payment would amount to US$22, or 152 and 172 of the
monthly family income, for the two-bedroom and three-bedroom houses,
respectively,  and    would  enable  low-income  households  to  afford the
mortgage payments. The very lowest income, households at the 5th income
percentile, are estimated  to  earn  some  US$100  monthly.   The estimated
monthly payment for a two-bedroom house payable over 25 years with a 712
subsidy would amount to US$15, or 15? of the household income. This share
is realistic in view of the prolonged recession and high inflation rates in
Argentina that have eroded the real wages of the categories for which the
FONAVI houses are intended. Moreover, it would also allow for a margin to
pay for public services such as electricity, water supply and sewerage,
municipal taxes and transportation costs. The corresponding monthly payment
for a three-bedroom house payable over 25 years with a 212 subsidy would
amount to US$49 or 202 of the household income of the 35th income
percentile of the population (Annex 7, page 2).
C. Risks and Safeguards
3.07     The main project risks  are  of financial, legal and institutional
nature. FONAVI tax receipts and loan recoveries are sensitive to high
inflation rates and have fluctuated in the past. In part these financial
risks are not specific to the project, but to the nation's economy at
large. In order to ensure a more steady flow of revenue, a new mortgage
instrument will be introduced, and the technical assistance component would
strengthen the management and control of FONAVI's portfolio. In order to
minimize the project risks, the Bank loan would be divided into two
tranches of US$150 million each, where access to the second tranche would
be subject to SVOA/FONAVI compliance with clearly defined improvements in
its operational and financial performance. All agreed FONAVI reforms would
be introduced through FONAVI Resolutions (Secretariat Directives) to be
issued in the near future.   The  Bank  has received a legal opinion on the
validity  of  such  new   Resolutions  under  current  PONAVI  legislation.
Furthermore, it is proposed that as a condition for effectiveness of the
proposed loan (and retroactive financing) the whole regulatory system must
be in place and approved by all appropriate authorities. Moreover, SVOA is
understaffed  and  its  personnel  is  underpaid  and  unmotivated.    This
determines a serious administrative weakness, low productivity and staff
morale. The institutional arrangements proposed for project implementation
and  the  technical  assistance   component  took  into  consideration  the
identified weaknesses of SVOA, without creating a parallel organization,
which would further undermine the staff morale. The proposed arrangement
includes the necessary transfer of knowhow, the gradual improvement of
SVOA's procedures and the strengthening of the sector's basic federal and
provincial institutions.



- 25 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     Assurances have been obtained during negotiations thats
(a)  FONAVI's programs would  be  restricted  to  housing with economic
standards and lower unit costs, to be agreed with the Bank (para.
2.05);
(b) the basic housing unit size would be of about 36 sq m for two-
bedroom units and of about 48 sq m for three-bedroom units (para.
2.05);
(c) SVOA would introduce improved and standard bidding procedures that
would ensure transparency of the bidding process (paras. 2.08 and
2.25);
(d) SVOA under the Technical Assistance component of the project would
carry out studies and implement recommendations on several aspects
required to make SVOA a more capable and efficient organization.
The Government and the Bank would discuss the findings of all
these studies and the Government would prepare plans of action to
put into effect their recommendations taking into account the
Bank's comments (para. 2.11 and Annex 8);
(e) SVOA would implement transitional arrangements satisfactory to the
tanK for the assignment  and  repayment of houses already approved
by FONAVI (para. 2.12);
(f) SVOA would introduce new flexible housing design specifications to
assist the construction companies to build more efficiently (para.
2.16)
(g) the AC would prepare and submit quarterly implementation progress
reports to the Bank (para. 2.20);
(h) SVOA would put into effect a new system of recovery of FONAVI
loans, that would cap and make explicit subsidies necessary to
rake housing affordable to low-income families (paras. 2.40, 2.41,
.,d Annex 7);
(i) funds collected on account of FONAVI from June 30, 1989 onwards
should be available to FONAVI  within  a  maximum of 20 days after
actual payment of the contributions by the employers and self-
employed (para. 2.46);
(j) within seven months from the date of loan effectiveness, SVOA
would reach agreement with the provincial governments in the
amounts owed to FONAVI on account of employers' contributions and
agree to a Provincial "FONAVI Tax Compliance Plan" acceptable to
the Bank (paras. 2.45 and 2.46);



- 26 -
(k) SVOA would ensure that the IPVs take all actions necessary to have
arrears not greater than 402 for the transition program during
1989 and 1990, and 35Z thereafter (para. 2.46);
(1)  only those provinces with arrears for their total FONAVI portfolio
below 402 in 1989 and 1990 and 352 in 1991 onward would be
eligible  to  participate  in   the   FONAVI/IBRD  program.    The
allocation of the FONAVI/IBRD funds among the eligible provinces
would favor those provinces with demonstrated financial management
efficiency (para. 2.46);
(m)  semi-annual  management   evaluations   would   be   performed  by
consultants/auditors contracted according to Bank guidelines, with
these evaluations including compliance with FONAVI Resolutions on
cost  recovery,   unit   cost,   provincial  allocation  criteria,
beneficiary selection criteria, procurement arrangements, and key
performance indicators (para 2.46); and
(n) SVOA and each IPV would establish separate project accounts for
the project; such accounts to be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.49).
4.02     The  following  would  be  a  condition  of  effectiveness  of the
proposed loan:   the  whole  regulatory  system  (embodied  in the required
FONAVI Resolutions) must be in place and approved by all appropriate
authorities (para. 3.07).
4.03     Execution of participating  agreements  with  the  IPVs would be a
condition of disbursement for civil works in each Province. Further,
execution of an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between SVOA and BHN
or other financial institution acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition
of disbursement for the home improvement loans program.
4.04     Assurances  of  satisfactory  implementation  of  operational  and
financial improvements would be conditions of disbursements after the
initial US$150 million (para 2.23):
(a) substantial progress, satisfactory to the Bank, on implementation
of the "FONAVI Tax Compliance Plan" (para. 2.47);
(b) incremental revenue improvements (as measured on a cash basis)
directly  attributable  to   the   project  (improved  FONAVI  tax
collection  from  sub-national   governments,  and  improved  cost
recovery in transition and new FONAVI/IBRD programs) would be at
least double the entire FONAVI debt service payable during the 12
months previous to the date in which the initial US$150.0 million
was fully withdrawn from the project's loan account (para. 2.47);
(c) Satisfactory progress in carrying out the program as defined in
the Housing Policy Letter, the project and the FONAVI Resolutions
dealing with loan repayment, eligibility for housing loans, cost,
size and other specifications of housing units, national registry
of beneficiaries, bidding procedures, allocation of FONAVI funds,
collection  procedures   and   participation  of  non-governmental
institutions (para. 2.48); and



- 27 -
(d)  Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the recommendations
of the studies carried out under the technical assistance program
(para. 2.48).
4.05     Recommendation.  With  the  above  assurances  and conditions, the
proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$300.0 million
equivalent, to be repaid over a period of 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 28 -                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Urban and Rural Population 1980, 1986 and 2000
(millions)
I 9a0                               1 986
-wa1       fwat 1ri d                            wa1
P    _Ii~s        Ugtm  Gxttrata    weum_d   Toc    l bm k   0lmtre?d  M             Total
Cpitad   2ra          LID       -           -      2.50   2.42         -         -      2.82
asMe Ms              10.0    n0.2n       0.53    10.74   11.42      0.24      0.52      12.18
(stmwca               0.11    0.M0          -     0.21   0.13       0.10         -      0.23
GtL*                  1.90    0.13       0.33     2.36   2.18       0.15      0.33      2.66
otraXltd              0.42    0.63       0.20     0.65   0.49       0.03      0.20      0.72
Choa0.42    0M                           0.L25    0.69   0.S5       0.03      0.25      0.03
Oudt,                 0.2D1   O.U        0.03     0.25   0.26       0.03      0.03      0.32
itre Ric              0.61    G.M        0.23     0.89   o.72       0.07      0.22      1.01
Prum                  0.16    0.(1       0.11     0.29   0.22       0.03      (Li      0.16
.MUY                  0.29    .(Mx        0.07     0.40   0.37       0.05     0.07      0.49
1a p                  0.13    0.03        G0.      0.20   0.14       0.03     M00       0.21
ta Riots              0.10    0.0        O.M       0.16   0.12       O.Ml    0n.        0.18
"avia                 0.62    0.03        0.33     1.18   0."        0.06      0.32      1.29
HI*{4J_               0.29    0.3         0.27     0.51   0.'4)      0.03      0.27    0G7
0.17    0J2        (M06     0.23   0.23       0.03      0.0n      0.30
Uo sum                0.27   nOM         0.05      0.31   0.18       0.M       0.04     0.46
Sait                  0.47   0G.4         0.14     0.65   059        0.05     0.13      0.77
sm  ump               0.33    0.03       0.11     0.46  .0.39       0(L.      0.10      0.51
Sm lAt                0.19    0.02       0.M      0.21    0.18      0.02     0G0.       0.24
sai?aCh               0.89    0.01          -     0.10   0.12       0.01         -      0.13
smte 1b               1.99    0.Is       0.29      2.43   2.25      0.17      0.2t      2.70
Santio 4el Esteo      0.30    0.03       0.25      0.58   0.37 oO.            0.25      0.66
tbM                   Q0.9    G.M        0.24      0.96   0.         0.05     0.24      1.10
T. del                0.w om                -      o.a2 0  .o3         -         -      0.03
b"I  mitry         n2.74    1.01       3.58    27.40  26.1        1.3       3.5      30.9
Pe,kulte          83A.     3.9g       13.12    103.13   u14t   U                     12 t l0
Note:                   2 0 0 0
Wm  cmmu   PMPP  mbr
32.4     1.2          2.9    36.S
89.1       U           at    10(
Source:  1980 census and analysis by Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censo (INDEC)
and mission estimates. World Bank population projections for the year 2000.
Urban population is defined as those residing in communities above 2000
inhabitants. Rural concentrated population is defined as those residing in
communities between 150 and 2000 inhabitants. Arithmetic sums may mt add
exactly due to rounding.



- 29 -                                    ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
HOUSING SECTOR PROFILE
.Puptlai SraoJi ad lhuumuld F  .tla.        I. hfIlt I. l        ntruswtwa  wiNl.()
Increnental
Vsa    Total  ka.Pm. NoveasMids                                            Urha.   hell   Total
Ptulat.   list                                                                    t4Utlamll
L.9M    V.4      3.16     1o.9                         Inhman                61      131    59 
1.U1   27.914    116       125.1                       la rda                31    36 1    25 1
I*   3j.46       31,6      12743                      fr taue                 41    3 1       9 1
1.1  31.9        3.6       I25                         *Owl                   31     2 1      71
1.16   2.4U      364       13t1.
1.0    29.93     3.4       1341                        bep t",
1.94   MAN61     3.4       134.15p Ir tlei                                  140 1            33 1
1.97   3.997     3.64      1319                        lptmi tenks ga
L.     31.12      3IN      141.3                         ams                 d1    35 A      3 1
1.9   33.7        3.64     143.6                                             1       665     321
1.99    3.642     3.64     146.3
Sllft  lcltm1
ilot eolltet           51       t     t4 I



ARGENTINA
RRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Organizational Chart of SWOA
secrtu lor oHMo   aW
LhSwCotmayw
uow secretItofw                                                              hindu SecWrWt~o of
Utn DDeb on US H                                                                        r                                UrG  Sa ecd        Guwo
No UNb      o                                  o Hn             dHoCuNn                                      Ofd  H  aDCOmdn Hf Ld gcof dd    A nirm
D ?  T                              _-         acd Ponces         AffosAk
Wald Bao* -22242
I0 
oN b



FIRS HOUSING SECWR PROJECT
OrgonlOor   CO Td pka PMc  Houakfg (1WP. Mmalj)
lv   4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
-it                                                         =  MESHb 
g m                           I~~~~~~~-
a~~~~~
z   U   g  C ~~~~~~~~~N
l -                                                   EF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ISN6 AUM
_oao"        (      auon             esonoe              autooe                auwtoze             outs""                 tsieg-           aitmee              aoutmae
Number of staff      1.166 of *hoa      801 of oh".        so0 of GhOaD        let woao             61 of oh".          Sig Of whoa          S  of oh"           a1s of a            747 atG%
-  Prof./t.eclh.    -  viefoselm,e    2611 profo.oaalo  M   refeeolel          91 pof#eelo    US prOfealMl               M twofmells  US eftlmle  7gm profeaa_ le
Previncial uWham     2.96 *II.          2.21.11.           0.60.all.          0.56elI.              0.27 11.             a.6 ll.             m.1l..              0.111I.             11.4 si.
Population 1966
Staff ProdutIvity                       0. i               0.60               0.46                  0.62                0.16                  0.U1               1.S                 0.47
per -000 Phouletlon
Fincingl Soureoe  FISVI S al I.   i       AV1 106 . 11.  FIMV1 11ml.   POWs " ell.    _               lI  00 al1.           V1 1n W.11.       1111  so   1.    Fo l 16 .11.          ram  soII.
Nil, of Aarele       CItby 10 aL.       Provinclal         proelga  --        Prelagial -           Proviaolal -        P1rosloall 210 elf.  Provincial -        Pewlaolal ma il.   Poelaglal   .1 al.
Dec. 187 Frcrle-     Toal 6. el.        Total 10 all.       To_l tiO *11.                Toll ae    *0a11.               To_al  M0.11.        Total110ala.       Toal 16 ell.        Ttal 4d0l11.
Homeo" der           6.26               6.11                                  O, 00                  .100                U2D0                 O,OilO             4.S CO             UlaD
oeitruction
"D. of Mortgaee      81.400            6S.U                                   16.800                *,.CO                26.000               .400                 .m                 ,.l
Nb. of Appl icant.    6.9  eo _ad    At leas  10l.,i 4,.000 ro.               81.01) Go"            15.000 eveO         1110.000 ape          1_ 11.41001 sgom   sO.,CO _Go   _ I       latr  by .jio
geroangat          la 1676 beE...     and peeamneat      ad pormaftt           NWd poragt          atd PeaMeMAt         eNW peomamo         and emoWK6a
regloty            reglatr closed    reglotrJ            rgl"ay                r-Wlep              reglotr               -flows             relaw
Urban Population,    Ron                Cordabe IU          II.A.             12 abowa 20.000       1 a_g  70.0,0       bar  o%d.o. US        * SW 1600.011    Sy sIll.. oad         0rm 1eama Alt.. m
Dietribut,ion                           1 10.000                              6 U.OO100i0           I t0.00-,.C           of70.00  o    .                        on"                 Oro. Lo Po  t.
2   60.000                            11 bolem 1.00         C 10.000.25.000     7 too" 1mi                                                   ae   &lI Eme. a
7  i0.000                                                   4 2,000-10.000        af peg.                                                     b. des rPlat 41i
4  40,0D                                                                        10 C.O ltba                                                  U t 11.00-18.161  u1
7   10.000.15.000                                                                 a  of peg.                                                 1 1.0040.6  n
O.erd.e Accouni.     4011 of aler       Urbncan             N.A.             O66 of number of       251 of Member of     0 of numbor of       Us OF auwD          s of th. amat d         of ad _    of
of aceount.                                              a cceUnt.            lcca                            e, of     o acota            du                      U
thu aeount duo
E.tarnal Acd.to.a     nicipal General  Slndi,.* appoint"   N.A.               Tribunl               Vribual              Trib;al              TribeaI            Tribunal             tlb6al 
AconVt0 Off"ice  by tA. Co onor                          *- Co""*              do Ca- tee,        4d Cue                de Caoto            do Cagt..            de Cuinto.
Proc.,-enL           20 b.d.,r  n       5b6 bdd.,e on       B1164.,.F e           b*sdera on         10 biddar on        O bifddr. co         a 6idars ON                             10fbrI     oe m,_
avoraga            evereuc           Overage                anrag.              a.erage              avera *vre                                               0



First Hioino Pooiect
vescri.tio  of Sol ted Institetions P"enirA1  A. vienwa IIPVeI
ASiSUhi.L... fL                                     -L  o1U mii                      CH4                   OOM                 MMO                  SANTA FE,           "EAA                  V         I
Project Soupe.riGio   Non-ocoeterised    NwicompVtoried    One intepector per  one inpector per             Sne inseptor per    Sstiefectory.          On. in tor          Sst.i-feor.            IMee  feetorg  1
irspection tee      U to.ee.             s  toes.           site. _o_bermonm        corpte ri nd. me    coepetorised           per U0 hr...         compe.trisd.           imepe tor par 73
per *.te.           cltee                 lere                                       nStpector p.r                              Ct.."rao . -nt-. csOtOr
Cewero".                                                                              o bows".                                                                             proj et  "rrsy
t    erinnc wtith     Recent - imited    Pogsiti.               Limited             Limited                Limited               Limited tot           Lis;td. P ositi0  Positine                 Poeitie   a"d
on-Oornentsl           (1046to using                                                                                             ooslt..               with  .nic.p1-                             _1-l (skoot we
Orgenisstls             wait*)                                                                                                                         ities. memgti..                            of deeme)
with COeoertiee.
Arsilsbilitg of        u;nte.              N.A.                 Aspi. lend with    Asple lend with          Ample pulie lend    Ur hae ot DV ple   Ample public NW    1.20 tee of Irv             Poblem  is S*.A
Load                                                            contactor,          Contractors                                  mepl pblic len        np1eo  tie len d.                          Netro ltweon. LS
e    t led Of                                                   PI."e. No  del
intermediaries                                                  Piars end fhb.
Sisane.
Cot ,elbdo             Infra trecture      Sopsrstructr  79         N.A.                 NA.                     N.A.            teret           775   Sprmtoc%wre US  $epre 72h    Spr-trect 2S
mmd lead       21   nf     rcre 12                                                                        intrestrcture 14J  tnt reewvters 125  Inf1eetrcor,  15           Znflnrsetur.  11
Saop rstrctere 751  Led                                                                                   Lnd              33   Len             a   Lend             5     Lnd              ES
Totel         100  Total          100                                                                    Total          1003   Others           a  Totl           LOS    Totl            1001
Co.ii Worbs            Eists               E.iet.s                        E          st Eniat*             E.1sts                Eists bet n           &is%*               Eis;abEt no            e.sts (f iaecisl
Radiator                                                                                                                         intserprovencil                              t                   ed tcn.cel).
feedbc.                                   fe.cb.                 *N* obtained
infors lI, data
from other FVs
monthly Rent L..*,  1J  m-hly of           0.  - 1.01      O    3 Ionlip of         1I cnthly of           A  00 for a           A  00-400 for a       A EOO-SODO,         13I  *thl of           A 200-300 for
per Dic. 1917          th. .*J.. of        innthiy of the       the nee  of t the   the 'et" of             .me-room hose. PnMWI tip. bhose of FffiVA  t,p* of             the caIne of the       be-e  F13VI
Prices                ho-.                 .l.. of the          h-o.. or a S0W    the hose  or                                   So  2  or Is of the  h-o, mith 2          ho-                     -at
hos                 for a FONAVI        A 500 for a FOMVI W!1ie of the hoe    bedroof)
wit  2 bedrooes    mLh 2 bedroom
G ts



-34 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 9
eXnijke,co eh  z29y  eAco   Aofci4(
5 de agosto de 1988
Sefior S. Shahid Husain
Vice Presidente
Regi6n para America Latina
y el Caribe
Banco Mundial
1818 H Street,  "'.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Estimado Sefior Husain,
Esta carta tiene por objeto defir.ir la politica a mediano y largo
plazo que gula a la Rep6blica Argentina en materia de vivienda, y en la que
se inserta el programa para el cual se ha solicitado apoyo al Banco
Mundial.
El deficit nacional en materia de viviendas constituye un problema
estructural por su naturaleza, su magnitud y su permanencia en el tiempo.
De ello se deriva la necesidad de establecer politicas orientadas a
asegurar flujos de financiamiento constantes, la optimizaci6n del uso de
los recursos actuales disponibles y la promocion de una cada vez mas amplia
participacion privada en la inversi6n para la vivienda.
La carencis de condiciones de habitabilidad minimas aceptables
para aproximadamente 2.500.000 viviendas, de las cuales mas de 1.500.000
han sido calificEdas como precarias y necesitan ser sustituidas por nuevas
construcciones aptas, dan cuenta de la gravede' de la situaci6n.
En 1965 se cre6 la Subsecretaria de Vivienda, actualmente
Secretaria de Vivier.da y Ordenamiento Ambiental, organismo de gobierno
encargado de la definici6n de unp politica habitacional nacional.
Por ley posterior se estableci6 el Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda
constituido por un recurso de origen especlfico para asegurar la
continuidad de los montos de inversi6n necesarios para la ejecuci6n de
obras que se extiendien en el tiempo y que deben ser objeto de una
programaci6n permanente y sistematica para lograr una escala de
realizaciones adecuada y economia de costo, mediante el avance tecnico y
organizativo de la empresa privada interviniente, cuya permanencia en el
mercado queda asi garantizada. De esta manera tambien se puede mantener un
nivel de empleo adecuado en la construccion que es actualmente un sector
dinamico de la economia.



- 35 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 9
El FONAVI se destina al financiamiento a largo plazo de la
vivienda, con el grado de subsidio necesario y compatible con los ingresos
de las familias de recursos insuficientes, considerindose tales a squellas
cuya capacidad de ahorro no alcanza para poder acceder a los creditos
hipotecarios disponibies.
Desde 1977 a la fecha se han terminado aproximadamente 263.000
viviendas, se hallan en construccifn alrededor de 120.000, y se han
financiado con estos recursos obras de infraestructura y de equipamiento
urbano para los conjuntos habitacionales correspondientes.
El segundo instrumento financiero es el Banco Hipotecario
Nacional, instituci6n centenaria que desde hace mas de medio siglo
desarrolla una importantisima funci6n crediticia en el mercado de la
vivienda econ6mica para una amplia franja de la poblaci6n con capacidad de
amortizar los prestamos que efect6a.
En los tiltimos cuatro aflos, el Banco Hipotecario Nacional, ha
financiado 95.782 viviendas terminadas, ha otorgado 53.945 creditos para la
compra, ampliaci6n o mejoramiento de la vivienda y tiene en construccion
73.475 unidades habitacionales.
Sin embargo, el conjunto de obras realizadas con ambos mecanismos
no alcanza a detener, siquiera, el incremento del deficit habitacional.
Ademas el costo promedio de las viviendas es elevado, sus plazos de
ejecuci6n son excesivos con una carga financiera pesada, y el aporte de los
beneficiarios resulta insuficiente, tanto en anticipos como en el recupero
de los pagos de los adjudicatarios. Asimismo la inversi6n particular o
empresarial es reducida.
La politica del gobierno tiene como objetivo obtener mayor
eficiencia y transparencia en el sistema de viviendas con financiamiento
pdblico a fin de hacer mAs viviendas, mas econ6micas, para un mayor n6mero
de familias y en el menor tiempo posible.
El Gobierno argentino estima esencial reestructurar los programas
habitacionales que cuentan con financiamiento p6blico de manera de
satisfacer prioritariamente las necesidades habitacionales de los sectores
de menos recursos. En la primera operaci6n con el apoyo del Banco Mundial
los esfuerzos estarian dirigidos al sector con ingresos dentro de los
cuatro deciles mas bajos. Esto se lograra mediante programas de
construccion de vivienda popular, con subsidios transparentes, determinados
por el nivel de ingreso, o por medio de programas, incluyendo lineas de
credito, dirigidos a apoyar obras de mejoramiento o rehabilitaci6n de
viviendas existentes.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 9
- 36 -
Para ello se propone tomar las medidas conducentes a fortalecer el
sistema financiero y adoptar las medidas necesarias para restaurar el rol
del Banco Hipotecario Nacional en el sector de la vivienda. Asimismo,
estima esencial promover el ahorro particular voluntario para captar y
dirigir recursos para los programas de vivienda. El Gobierno estima
necesario ampliar el n6mero y calidad de los intermediarios financieros
para los programas habitacionales del pais. Para estos efectos realizara
los estudios que sean necesarios para su identificaci6n y adoptara las
medidas necesarias para su utilizaci6n dentro de los programas de vivienda
popular o mejoramiento y rehabilitaci6n.
Si bien el sistema nacional de decisiones en politica habitaciouial
es fuertemente federalista seg8n los terminos de la Ley 21.581 que
establece la responsabilidad de planificacion territorial de los gobiernos
provinciales para la localizaci6n de las viviendas, la elecci6n de su
tipologia, la licitaci6n para su construcci6n por las empresas privadas, y
su adjudicaci6n al beneficiario mediante sus organismos ejecutores - los
Institutos Provinciales de Vivienda - la S.V.O.A. plantea profundizar la
descentralizaci6n ejecutiva, haciendo mas directa y estrecha la relaci6n
con los usuarios. Para ello se propicia la mayor participaci6n de los
municipios y de las instituciones intermedias no gubernamentales, entidades
sin fines de lucro ya incorporadas desde los 6itimos aflos a las operatorias
FONAVI tales como las cooperativa, mutuales, etc.  Como meta general, el
gobierno estima que en la medida que se establezca un sistema financiero
estable basado en ahorros voluntarios que permita el financiamiento cada
vez mayor, por medio de hipotecas, de un ndmero importante de unidades
habitacionales, el papel de la S.V.O.A. deberia concentrarse en las
necesidades habitacionales del sector poblacional con ingresos por debajo
de aquellos de los sectores servidos por este programa. Para este sector,
cuando llegue el momento, estudiaria formas de financiamiento basadas en
creditos o subsidios para la renta o por medio de boletas de subsidios
(vouchers) que les ayude en el financiamiento de la compra de casas. De
todas maneras, S.V.O.A. estudiara y adoptara las medidas que se requieran
para asegurar que FONAVI concentre sus esfueraos exclusivamente en aquellos
sectores de la poblaci6n que no tienen acceso a fuentes privadas de
financiamiento para viviendas.
La Secretaria de Vivienda y Ordenamiento Ambiental esta trabajando
en forma inter-institucional para mejorar la recaudaci6n de los aportes al
FONAVI de todos los sectores involucrados y para recuperar parte de la
deuda existente, en particular de las provincias y los municipios de todo
el pals. Para estos efectos, adoptara las medidas necesarias, sea a traves
de incentivos en la fijaci6n de los cupos provinciales, o de la adopci6n de
recursos admitidos por la propia Ley. Esto determinara un aumento
considerable de los recursos disponibles para vivienda.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 9
- 37 -
El Gobierno argentino se propone realizar una programaci6n
plurianual para periodos de cuatro anos, estableciendo los cupos anuales
por provincia segdn criterios que incluyen la eficiencia tecnica y
financiers y evaluando y aprobando los planes de las mismas para cada
periodo, permitiendo la inclusi6n de la poblaci6n beneficiaria desde la
primera etapa de decisi6n y ejecuci6n de los proyectos.
Se ha decidido incrementar la participaci6n del sector privado en
su conjunto y establecer el ahorro previo particular voluntario para los
adjudicatarios de la vivienda, el que sera considerado como pago a cuenta
del total amortizable. El aumento previsto de los recursos servira para un
saneamiento y reforzamiento de la financiaci6n de la vivienda econ6mica y
para producir una sustituci6n paulatina parcial de los recursos del sector
pfiblico por recursos privados. En funcion de ello, el Gobierno considerar&
la oportunidad de una disminuci6n de la tasa constitutiva del FONAVI, que
tendria en cuenta, entre otros, los mejores ingresos del fondo y la demanda
insatisfecha.
Asimismo, se propone llevar a cabo un estudio que permita evaluar
fuentes alternativas de financiamiento, que dentro de un programa
progresivo tienda a unificar su sistema tributario e inclusive ir
reemplazando impuestos especificos por ingresos provenientes de Rentas
Generales. Todo ello significar& un cambio profundo del sistema,
representando el proyecto a ser financiado por el Banco un paso muy
significativo.
Las nuevas viviendas a proyectar y construir con los recursos del
FONAVI se ajustarin a niveles de costo menores que los hist6ricos en
relaci6n con su superficie, un mencr grado de acabado y equipamiento que
seran completados por el adjudicatario, manteniendo lo niveles minimos de
habitabilidad exigibles segdn sus caracteristicas y regiones.
En funci6n de is demanda y su tipificaci6n de acuerdo a su
capacidad de pago se realizaran viviendas de los siguientes tipos:
Viviendas de 36 m2 y hasta 2 dormitorios, con un costo de A
25.192, al 31 de diciembre de 1987, equivalentes a US$6.700,
incluidos infraestructura interna y terreno.
Viviendas de 48 m2 y hasta 3 dormitorios, con un costo de A
31.960, al 31 de diciembre de 1987, equivalentes a US$8.500,
incluidos infraestructura interna y terreno.
Viviendas de mayor superficie o grado de terminaci6n, con un
costo, equivalente a US$10.700,'.equivalentes a A 40.232, al 31 de
diciembre de 1987.



ANNEX 3
- 38 -                            Page S of 9
Las viviendas de 36 m2 y 48 m2 seran financiables, adem6s de con
recursos propios, con creditos del BIRF y abarcarin la poblaci6n hasta el
cuarto decil inft-ior segen su ingreso familiar. El grado de subsidlo para
las primeras serl hasta el 71Z de su valor y con un interes del 0,72
mensual sobre saldos deudores. El subsidio de los segundos podrs alcanzar
hasta un 21Z y condiciones de interes equivalentes.
El tercer tipo de viviendas sera destinado a operaciones de
completamiento de la trama urbana en areas consolidadas de la ciudad.
Estas operaciones no podran superar el 102 de los recursos financieros
devengados de la S.V.O.A. no comprometidos con el cr4dito del BIRF. El
grado de subsidio sers el minimo compatible con los ingresos familiares y
no podrs superar el de los otros tipos de vivienda.
Otra operatoria de FONAVI, hasta un 72 de los fondos devengados
anuales, es el 'Programa de Viviendas Progresivas". La misma se lleva a
cabo a traves de entidades intermedias (Municipios, Cooperativas, etc.).
En dichos proyectos no se incluye el financiamiento de terrenos,
infraestructura y equipamiento. Su costo estimado es del orden de A 21.160
al 31 de marzo de 1988 equivalente a US$4.000 por vivienda.
Se ests estudiando que esta operatoria, actualmente en
funcionamiento, se perfeccione mediante la creaci6n de circulos de ahorro
actuando el FONAVI en una primera etapa como ele nto inductor de un
sistema que se autofinancia a mediano plazo.
Atent onte,
a R 
fiecretaria   Vivienda
y Ordenami  to   biental



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 9
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING PROJECT
Government Policy Letter
(Translation)
August 5, 1988
Mr. S. Shahid Husain
Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean Region
World Bank
1818 H St., NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Husain:
1.       'The purpose of this letter  is to define the Argentine Republic's
medium- and long-term housing policy, which forms the framework for the
program for which the World Bank's support is requested.
2.       The national housing deficit is  a  structural problem in terms of
nature, magnitude and persistence.   It is therefore necessary to formulate
public policies geared to ensuring continuous financing flows, optimum use
of the resources currently available and promotion of ever increasing
private participation in housing investment.
3.       The fact that  about  2.5  million  dwelling  units do not provide
acceptable minimum livability conditions, including more than 1.5 million
units that can only be classified as  precarious and need to be replaced by
suitable new structures, testifies to the seriousness of the situation.
4.       In  1965  an   Under-Secretariat   of  Housing  (Subsecretaria  de
Vivienda) -- now the Secretariat of Housing and Environmental Management
(Secretaria de Vivienda  y  Ordenamiento  Ambiental)  -- was  set  up as a
government agency responsible for formulating a national housing policy.
5.       Under a subsequent law, a National Housing Fund (Fondo Nacional de
Vivienda -- FONAVI) was set up, with resources of specific origin. Its
purpose was to ensure continuity of investment resources required for the
execution of works extending over time and requiring permanent and
systematic planning so as to achieve an adequate and cost-effective scale
of execution through technical and organizational development of the
private contractors involved, thereby ensuring the continued existence of
the latter on the  market.    This  also makes  it possible to maintain an
adequatu level of employment in the construction industry, currently a
dynamic sector of the economy.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 9
6.       FONAVI's purpose is to provide long-term financing of housing with
the necessary subsidy element compatible with the incomes of low-income
families, which is deemed to mean families whose savings capacity is not
sufficient to give them access to the available mortgage loans.
7.       These resources  have  financed  about  263,000 completed dwelling
units since 1977, plus about 120,000 currently under construction, together
with infrastructure works and urban plant for the corresponding housing
developments.
8.       The second  financial  instrument  is  the  National Mortgage Bank
(Banco Hipotecario Nacional), a 100 year old institution which for more
than 50 years has been performing an extremely import and credit function
in the (low-cost) housing market for a broad section of the population with
the capacity to repay the loans it makes.
9.       The National Mortgage Bank  has financed 95,782 completed dwelling
units and granted 53,945 housing purchase, expansion or improvement loans
in the last four years and has 73,475 housing units under construction.
10.      However, the total construction work  financed by the two agencies
is insufficient even to halt the rise in tne housing deficit. In addition,
the average cost of a dwelling is high, construction times are excessively
long,  entailing  a   heavy   financial   burden,  and  the  beneficiaries'
contribution is inadequate in terms both of advance payments and recovery
of the payments of  the  awardees.    Moreover, private and entrepreneurial
investment is low.
11.      The  object  of  the  Government's  policy  is  to  obtain  higher
efficiency and transparency in the publicly financed housing system in
order to have more houses built, more cheaply, for a larger number of
families in the shortest possible time.
12.      The Argentine Government considers it essential to restructure the
publicly-financed housing programs so as to g-ve priority to meeting the
housing needs  of  the  lower-income  groups.    In  the  first World Bank-
supported operation the efforts would be directed to the bottom four income
deciles. This would be achieved by means of low-cost housing construction
programs, with clearly explicit subsidies geared to income level, or of
programs, including lines of credit, to support works of improvement or
rehabilitation of existing dwellings.
13.      To that end it  is  proposed  to  take  measures to strengthen the
financial system and to restore the  role  of the national Mortgage Bank in
the housing sector.   In  addition,  it  is considered essential to promote
voluntary private savings. The government considers it necessary to raise
the number and improve the quality of the financial intermediaries for the
country's housing programs.    For  those  purposes  it will carry out the
necessary studies to identify them and will take the necessary measures to
use them under the low-cost housing or improvement and rehabilitation
programs.
14.      The national system  of  housing-policy  decision-making is highly
federalist, pursuant to Law 21.581, which establishes the spatial planning



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 9
responsibility of the provincial governments with respect to the siting of
housing, clhice of housing types, tendering of construction by private
contractors and award to the beneficiaries through their executive agencies
-- the Provincial Housing Institutes (Institutos Provinciales de Vivienda
-- IPVs). SVOA nevertheless proposes to extend executive decentralization,
creating closer and more direct relationships with users. To that end it
is fostering greater participation by the municipalities and the non-
governmental intermediate institutions, non-profit entities which have
already been integrated for the last two years into the FONAVI schemes,
such as the cooperatives, mutual  societies,  etc.   As a general goal, the
Government considers that, in step with the establishment of a stable
financial system based on voluntary savings, permitting ever increasing
mortgage financing of a large number of housing units, SVOA's role will
focus on the housing needs of the population group having incomes smaller
than those of the groups served by this program (the first Bank loan). For
that group it would, when the time comes, study forms of financing based on
credits or income subsidies or of subsidy vouchers to assist them in
financing house purchase. In any case, SVOA will study and will adopt the
measures required to ensure that FONAVI's role will be focussed exclusively
on those sectors of the population which do not have access to private
sources of house financing.
15.      SVOA is working with other  institutions to improve the collection
of FONAVI contributions due from all the sectors involved and to recover
part of the existing debt, in particular of the provinces and the
municipalities throughout the country. It will take the necessary measures
to achieve this either through incentives in setting the provincial quotas
or through forms of recourse provided for by the Law itself. This will
result in a substantial increase in the resources available for housing.
16.      The Argentine Government proposes  to prepare multiannual programs
covering four-year periods, setting annual quotas for each province on the
basis of criteria that include technical and financial efficiency and
appraising and approving their plans for each period, thereby enabling the
beneficiary population to be included from the first stage of decision and
execution of the projects.
17.      It has been decided  to  expand  the  participation of the private
sector as a whole and to establish prior voluntary prior private savings of
housing awardees, which will be treated as a down payment on the total to
be repaid.
18.      The proposed incremental resources will  be used to regularize and
strengthen low-cost housing financing and to bring about gradual partial
replacement of public-sector by private-sector resources. As part of this
process the Government will consider the suitability of reducing the FONAVI
salary levy (tasa constitutiva) taking into account, inter alia, FONAVI's
improved income and the unsatisfied demand.
19.      It is also proposed to  carry  out a study to evaluate alternative
sources of financing with a view, as part of a progressive program, to
unifying its taxation system and even replacing earmarked taxes by income
deriving from general revenues. All this will mean a far-reaching reform
of the system, in which the project to be financed by the Bank represents a
very significant step forward.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 9
20.      The new  housing  units  to  be  designed  and  built  with FONAVI
resources will be designed for construction at below historic cost in terms
of area, degree of finish and equipment, which will be completed by the
awardee, while maintaining minimum livability levels based on their
characteristics and the region concerned.
21.      In light of demand  and  capacity  to  pay, the following types of
housing units will be built:
(a) area 36 m:2, up to 2 bedrooms, cost A 25,192 at December 31,
1987, equivalent to US$6,700, including internal infrastructure
and land;
(b)   area 48 m2, up  to  3 bedrooms,  cost  A 31,960 at December 31,
1987, equivalent to US$8,500, including internal infrastructure
and land;
(c) larger area or greater degree of completion, cost A 40,232 at
December 31, 1987, equivalent to US$10,700.
22.  The 36 m2 and 48 m2 units  will be eligible for financing, in addition
to own resources, out of IBRD loans and will cover the population up to the
fourth lowest family-income decile.   Subsidization  of the first type will
be up to 71Z of cost, with interest of 0.7% per month on outstanding
balances. The subsidy for the second type will be up to 21Z, with
equivalent interest terms.
23. The third type of unit will be intended for operations to complete the
urban fabric in consolidated areas of the city. These operations will be
limited to a maximum of 102 of SVOA's accrued financial resources not
committed under the IBRD loan.   The subsidy percentage will be the minimum
compatible with family income and may not exceed that of the other types
units.
24. Another FONAVI scheme, amounting to up to 72 of the annual accrued
funds,  is  the  "Progressive   Housing  Program'  (Programa  de  Viviendas
Progresivas). This program is implemented through intermediate entities
(municipalities, cooperatives, etc.).    Financing  of land, infrastructure
and equipment is not included in these projects. Their estimated cost is
of the order of A 21,160 at March 31, 1988, equivalent to US$4,000 per
dwelling unit.
25. Studies are under way with a view to improving this scheme, currently
in operation, by creating savings groups, with FORAVI acting in the initial
stage as the promotional agent of a system that becomes self-financing in
the medium term.
Signed
Elva Roulet
Secretary of Housing and
Environmental Management



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Selection of Beneficiaries
1.       The Current System.  At  present,  it is the responsibility of the
Provincial Housing Institutes (IPVs) to select the beneficiaries of the
houses built with FONAVI resources. IPYs perform their tasks under general
instructions from  SVOA.    SVOA,  through  several  Secretariat Directives
(Resoluciones  FONAVI),  has  mandated   the  establishment  of  provincial
registries of potential beneficiaries of FONAVI housing units. These
Directives determine the factors and requirements that come into play when
IPVs  Yard FONAVI housing units.    Several Provinces have closely followed
these directives, while others have failed to do so. Even in provinces
where there is a registry, the characteristics vary, and the weights and
factors for selection are much different from one province to another. The
SVOA Directive No. 73 stresses the importance of assigning points to each
applicant for a FONAVI housing unit using objective criteria for the award.
However, the points assigned for each factor are different in each Province
from that specified in the Directive.
2.       Directive 73 calls for the  preparation of ad-hoc registries where
a FONAVI group of housing units has been or will be completed. This is in
itself a serious limitation since it fails in one basic purpose of the
registry, which is to gauge the actual demand for housing in a Province.
The National Census, carried out every ten years, provides too infrequent
information for preparing a national housing policy. Equally serious, the
current registries do not take into account the effort of each family in
obtaining housing. The current point system fails to promote more active
efforts on the part of the applicants for housing. Instead of showing that
the solution to the housing problem must come from a shared effort with the
state, including the family's effort to save, the registry promotes a
passive attitude. Those eventually receiving a housing unit will hardly
value it properly.   The  deficiencies  of  the present system indicate the
need to define and implement a new system of a National Registry, open and
permanent, with the same rules and criteria for the whole country.
3.       The Proposed New System.  The  proposed new Registry would have to
be national to avoid multiple  applications.    It would guarantee the open
and permanent inscription and would be updated to reflect the profile and
location  of  demand.    It would  also  be  useful  to  measure  regional
differences which could guide decisions on provincial allocations of FONAVI
resources and subsidies. The Registry would be transparent, objective and
easy to implement allowing the potential beneficiaries to check directly
the award system, in order to make it objective. The data would be used
for planning purposes, especially regarding location and type of demand.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
4.       The Registry for Bank-financed  housing would include two options:
(a) Two-bedroom housing unit; or (b) three-bedroom housing unit. Families
with income below the 40 income percentile, not owning a house, who have
never been beneficiaries of a FONAVI house, and living or working in a
Province,  would  be  able   to   register   in  their  municipalities,  in
coordination with the respective IPV.   The candidates would receive points
according to a system agreed with  SVOA.   The following variables would be
considered:
(a) socio-economic level;
(b) composition of the family group;
(c) current physical and sanitary housing conditions;
(d)  current housing rental conditions; if relevant.
5.      The pre-selection of candidates would be carried out simultaneously
with the annual provincial housing construction program. Only candidates
duly registered would be eligible for pre-selection.  The IPV would prepare
a list of candidates for each area where houses would be built, considering
two  factors:    (a)   the   points   the  candidate  received  in  4xislher
classification in the Registry  and  (b)  the  amount of savings he/she has
achieved, plus the  monthly  amount  of  savings  the candidate promises to
raise until the house is actually awarded. These savings would be weighed
accordingly to the level  of  poverty  of  the  candidate.   The list would
include the candidates, starting with those with the higher number of
points down to those with less points, up to the number housing units to be
built. A waiting list would also be prepared, in case any candidate is not
awarded a unit.
6.      Savings could be held in any financing institution, within a system
authorized by the Central Bank, which will maintain the real value of small
amounts of savings. Savers would be free to use their savings for whatever
use they want until the pre-selection is over. After pre-selection, the
candidate would have to increase his/her savings with the amounts he/she
promised to achieve as part of the pre-selection process. If any of the
beneficiaries do not comply with his/her savings target, he/she would be
eliminated from the list.   The  total  amount  saved  at the time of final
house award would be contributed to the respective IPV when the beneficiary
takes possession of the housing unit and will be treated as a down payment
in cash against the total price  thereof.   All other things being equal in
terms of socio-economic and family situation, the prior savings will be the
determining factor in the preselection and a condition for final award.
7.      Non-governmental  organizations   (NGOs)   such   as  cooperatives,
"'mutuales", etc. would be able to register for preselection. The candidate
members  of  NGOs    would   receive  their  points  according  to  his/her
characteristics, but the final priority would be given to the group as a



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
whole, taking into account the average of the group vis-a-vis other NGOs.
The cost of the land and design that the group may present would be
evaluated by SVOA and, together with any other savings that the group may
have, would be considered as savings of the group as a whole.
8.      IYVs would pay special attention to thes determination of the socio-
economic level of each registered candidate. Reliable verification of the
family income of the candidates should be carried out by IPV's staff. In
case of families which claim to belong to the iu-wzst income group (below
US$100 equivalent per month), an exhaustive socio-economic rep:re would be
prepared, confirming or rejecting the claim.
9.      The Registry  vuld be  permanently  open to facilitate the updating
of the data, such as number of family members and amount of sav.ngs to be
used as down payments. The pre-selection list would be published with all
relevant details in the regional press, allowing all those registered to
compare their points and lodge appeals if they so desire. These appeals
would be considered by an appropriate authority before the definitive list
of the beneficiaries of the housing units would be drawn up.



-46-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR LOAN
Technical Saecificatoifs
1.       The clvil works  component  of  the  proposed project includes the
Conctvuction of emi-finished but habitable  housing units of two and three
bedroms,  livingldining  roa,   kitchen   and   bathroom.    Th.  minImum
Constructed area would be  36  and  4U square metors, respectively Interior
finishing would bo the r eponsibility of the baneflci'7. as well as its
povsible ezteioa (a plan or diagram for its future eztension will be
provided to the beneficiary).
2.       These housing units  could  be  one-family  units,  with their own
plots, or multifamily buildings. vith shared or indivldual use of the
plot.    The  individual plots  would  have  ainim   areas  specified by
municipal codes. These minim=u standards could be reduced if the housing
unite share coouo plots.
3;       Tke urbanization of the area  where  the housing units are located
will be completed at the same-tim  the houses are built.  It would include
water  supply,  seweage  and   stol   drainag.. Syas  (where  available).
electricity and street lighting, street curbs, sidewalks, besides paved
pedestrlan walkings.
4.       Th housing units will be  buWlt  on  land owned by the Provincial
Institutes (Is) or ein land owned by the construction companies. In the
first case, *oreover, the land could have been conveyed to tho ulls as don=
paymut by cooperatives or *utuals. There are three alternativess
Alternatlive 1-. The IPV provides the land and the project design.
The construction companies accept the proJect and assum all the risks
which could affect the works' final costs, or they could suggest their own
designs on the lPV's land.
Alternativ  2.  The I   provides  the land and the project desin.
The construction companies may accept this alternative as indicated in
alternative 1 or they can suggest the use of their own land wLth their own
alternative designs.
Alternative 3. The construction companies provLde the land and
the project design.
5.       The constructLon companies must study  carefully the costs of each
component (land, cilvil works, urbanization and connections with the
existing service networks, honoraries, taxes, etc.) to ensure that the
total cost do not exceed the maximum costs for each category Qf housing
unit (that is, US$6,700 for the two-bedroom units and US$S8,500 for the
three-bedroom units)
6.       The construction companies can  alwaYs propose the housing design,
selecting freely more appropriate materials and technology, taking into
consideratLon the local end regional conditions, in line with the technical
specifications included in the respective public bidding document.



-47 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1
TYPICAL INVESTMENT COMPONENT UNIT COSTS (Bs.As)
Unfinished Basic House -_2 Bedrooms (36 m2)
(in US$ - Feb. 1988)
COMPONENTS                    Estimated      Typical       Total
Quantity     Unit Cost   Base Costs   TOTAL
US$          US$
A. HOUSING TOTAL                                          5,238.3      78.6
Excavations                 11.7 m3        3.4            40.4
Foundations                  7.2 m3       29.3           211.2
Floor Insulation             9.6 m2         1.5           14.3
Walls                       76.2 m3         6.8          516.4
Reinforced Concrete E.       2.2 m3       91.1           200.5
Floor & Perimetral Path    67.3 m2         2.7           183.8
Roof & Insulation           80.0 m2        10.2          814.5
Plaster                     69.2 m2        3.5           244.0
Carpentry                    9.0 u        35.9           323.4
Glasses                      5.0 m2        10.0           50.3
Painting                    41.3 u         3.3           136.5
Hot & Cold Water &
Sewerage & Water Tank      GL           591.77          591.8
Electricity                 GL           117.5           117.5
Gas Supply                  GL            113.3          113.3
Other Works                 GL            79.8            79.8
General Costs (441)         GL         1,600.6         1,600.6
B. INFRASTRUCTURE TOTAL                                   1,094.7      16.4
Electricity, Street         GL           370.9           370.9
Lighting, Weter &
Sewerage Supply
Streets Paving              GL           389.3           389.3
General Costs (442)         GL           334.5           334.5
C. LAND                        GL            332.4          332.4       4.9
BASE COST (A+B+C)                                      6,665.7    100.0
COST/m2                                                  185.1
NOTE:  Identifiable taxes & duties are about US$602.7 and the total Base
Cost net of taxes is US$6,062.7.



- 48 -                      ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 7
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 2
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT (Bs.As)
Unfinished Basic House - 2 Bedrooms (36 m2)
(in USS - Feb. 1988)
COMPONENTS                      LOCAL        FOREIGN        TOTAL     FEC 2
(USS)         US$           US$
A. HOUSING TOTAL            3,327.6        1,910.7         5,238.3      37
Excavations                 39.6            0.8            40.4      2
Foundations                169.0           42.2           211.2     20
Floor Insulation             5.7            8.6            14.3     60
Wall                       309.8          206.6           516.4     40
Reinforced Concrete E.      80.2          120.3           200.5     60
Floor & Perimetral Path   110.3            73.5           183.8     40
Roof & Insulation          325.8          488.7           814.5     60
Plaster                     97.8          146.4           244.0     60
Carpentry                  129.4          194.0           323.4     60
Glasses                     20.1           30.2            50.3     60
Painting                    54.6           81.9           136.5     60
Hot & Cold Water &
Sewerage & Water Tank    236.8           355.0           591.8     60
Electricity                 47.0           70.5           117.5     60
Gas Supply                  45.3           68.0           113.3     60
Other Works                 55.8           24.0            79.8     30
General Costs (44S)      1,600.6            -           1,600.6      -
B. INFRASTRUCTURE TOTAL       562.6          532.1         1,094.7     48
Electricity, Street        111.3          259.6           370.9     70
Lighting, Water &
Sewerage Supply
Streets Paving             116.8          272.5           389.3     70
General Costs (44Z)        334.5            -             334.5      -
C. LAND                       332.4            -             332.4      -
BASE COST (A+B+C)        4,222.9        2,442.8         6,665.7     37



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 7
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 3
TYPICAL INVESTMENT COMPONENT UNIT COSTS (Bs.As)
Unfinished Basic House - 3 Bedrooms (48 m2)
(in USS - Feb. 1988)
COMPONENTS                    Estimated      Typical        Total
Quantity     Unit Cost   Base Costs   TOTAL
US$          US$
A. HOUSING TOTAL                                           7,008.9      83.0
Excavations                 13.5 m3         3.4            46.7
Foundations                  8.5 m3        29.0           247.2
Floor Insulation            15.0 m2         1.5            22.3
Walls                      103.9 m2         6.7           697.6
Reinforced Concrete E.       3.5 m3        88.8           328.7
Floor & Perimetral Path    91.0 m2          2.7           245.4
Roof & Insulation          110.4 m2        10.6         1,169.3
Plaster                    141.0 m2         2.7           389.3
Carpentry                   11.0 u         35.8           394.4
Glasses                      6.5 m2        10.4            67.4
Painting                    74.8            3.3           246.0
Hot & Cold Water &
Sewerage & Water Tank      GL            666.0           666.0
Electricity                 GL            130.8           130.8
Gas Supp..y                 GL            120.5           120.5
Other Works                 GL             95.7            95.7
General Costs (442)         GL          2,013.3         2,141.6
B. INFRASTRUCTURE TOTAL                                    1,094.7      13.0
Electricity, Street         GL            370.9           370.9
Lighting, Water &
Sewerage SupDly
Street Paving               GL            389.3           389.3
General Costs (44%)         GL            334.5           334.5
C. LAND                        GL            332.4           332.4      4.0
BASE COST (A+B+C)                                      8,436.0    100.0
COST/m2                                                   175.7
NOTE:  Identifiable taxes & duties are about US$771.2 and the total Base
Cost net of taxes is US$7,665.3.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 7
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 4
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT (Bs.As)
Unfinished Basic House - 3 Bedrooms (48 m2)
(in USS - December 1987)
COMPONENTS                   LOCAL         FOREIGN          TOTAL     FEC Z
(US$)          US$             US$
A. HOUSING TOTAL            4,478.7        2,530.2         7,008.9      36
Excavations                 45.8            0.9            46.7      2
Foundations                197.8           49.4           247.2     20
Floor Insulation             8.9           13.4            22.3     60
Wall                       418.6          279.0           697.6     40
Reinforced Concrete E.    124.4           186.5           310.9     60
Floor & Perimetral Path   147.2            98.2           245.4     40
Roof & Insulation          443.7          665.5         1,109.2     60
Plaster                    155.7          233.6           389.3     60
Carpentry                  157.8          236.6           394.4     60
Glasses                     27.0           40.4            67.4     60
Painting                    98.4          147.6           246.0     60
Hot & Cold Water &
Sewerage & Water Tank    266.4           399.6           666.0     60
Electricity                 52.3           78.5           130.8     60
Gas Supply                  48.2           72.3           120.5     60
Other Works                 67.0           28.7            95.7     30
General Costs (44%)      2,141.6            -           2,141.6      -
B. INFRASTRUCTURE TOTAL       562.6          532.1         1,094.7     49
Electricity, Street        111.3          259.6           370.9     70
Lighting, Water &
Sewerage Supply
Streets Paving             116.8          272.5           389.3     70
General Costs (442)        334.5            -             334.5      -
C. LAND                       332.4            -             332.4       -
BASE COST (A+B+C)        5,373.7        3,062.3        8,436.0      36



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 7
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 5
TYPICAL INVESTMENT COMPONENT UNIT COSTS
House Improvements Loans (Sanitary Unit - d m2)
(in US$ - Feb. 1988)
COMPONENTS                   Estimated      Typical       Total
Quantity     Unit Cost   Base Costs   TOTAL
US$          USs
A. SANITARY UNIT
(KITCHEN & BATHROOM)                                  1,736.6    100.0
Excavations                 2.3 m3         8.8           20.2      1.1
Foundations                 7.2 m3        29.3           35.8      2.0
Floor Insulation            2.6 m2         1.7            4.4      2.5
Walls                      34.0 m3         5.6          189.7     11.0
Reinforced Concrete E.      0.9 m3       65.2            58.7      3.4
Floor                       8.0 m2         3.0           24.1      1.4
Roof                       21.0 m2         1.5           30.9      1.8
Plaster                    55.4 m2         2.0          114.2      6.6
Carpentry                   4.0 u         20.7           83.0      4.8
Glasses                     1.7 m2         7.8           13.3      7.7
Painting                   38.6 u          2.0           78.3      4.5
Hot & Cold Water &
Sewerage                  GL           383.1           383.1     22.0
Electricity                GL             29.8           29.8      1.7
Gas Supply                 GL             77.9           77.9      4.5
TOTAL BASE COST                                       1,736.6
COST/m2                                                 217.0
NOTE: Identifiable taxes & duties are about US$165.0 and the total Base
Cost net of taxes is US$1,571.6.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 7
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 6
PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT (Bs. As.)
House Improvements Loans (Sanitary Unit - 8 m2)
(in US$ - Feb. 1988)
COMPONENTS                      LOCAL        FOREIGN        TOTAL     FEC %
(USS)         US$           USS
A. SANITARY UNIT
(KITCHEN & BATHROOM)       1,102.6        634.0        1,736.6      37
Excavations                   19.8          0.4            20.2      2
Foundations                   28.6          7.2            35.8     20
Floor Insulation               1.8          2.6             4.4     60
Walls                        113.8         75.9           189.7     40
Reinforced Concrete E.        23.5         35.2            58.7     60
Floor                         14.5          9.6            24.1     40
Roof                          12.4         18.5            30.9     60
Plaster                       68.5         45.7           114.2     40
Carpentry                     33.2         49.8            83.0     60
Glasses                        5.5          7.8            13.3     60
Painting                      31.3         47.0            78.3     60
Hot & Cold Water &
Sewerage                    153.1        230.0           383.1     60
Electricity                   12.8         17.8            29.8     60
Gas Supply                    31.2         46.7            77.9     60
TOTAL BASE COST            1,102.6        634.0         1,736.6     37



ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Key Indicstors for Monitorina Housing Sector Performance
C.Y                                                                                           1098   1969   1890   1991    1992    199
SEMESTRAL                                                                                         2   1 2   1 2   1 2    1 2    1
1. PHYSICAL TARGET
1.1  SVOA-IBRD Financod House. (No.)
1.1.1    2 Brd. Hous                       : started
completed
1.1.2    3 wdr. Houses                     : started
completed
1.1.3   Improvemet Loans                    unusd
average am. oft
disbursd
1.2  SVOA Financed House (without IBRD finances) (No.)
1.2.1    Hous for Urban Central Areas   : srted
: completed
1.2.2    Progressive House                 : started
: copleted
2.  UNIT VALUE PER TYPE OF HOUSES
2.1  SVOA-IBRO Financed House (USS ea.)                                                                                                    -1>
0
2.1.1    2 Brd. Hous                       : Average Cost Unit                                                                      Go
2.1.2    3 Brd. Houss                      : Average Cost Unit
2.1.3   Improvemnt Loans                   : Average Cost Unit



C.Y.                                                                                            1988   1989   189    1991    19m      199J
SEHESTRAL                                                                                          2   1  2   1  2   1 2    1  2    1
2.2  SVOA Financed Housen (without IBR. fTnoncsn}  (No.)
2.2.1    Houses for Urban Central Areas   : Average Coat Unit
2.2.2    Progressive Houses                  Average Coat Unit
8.  SIZE PER TYPE OF HOUSE
8.1 SVOA-IBRO Financed Houses (so..)
3.1.1    2 Bdr. Houe                       : Average Size
8.1.2    3 Bdr. Houses                       Average Size
8.2   SVOA Financed Houses (without IBRO finances) (.a. m)
8.2.1    Houses for Urban Central Aras        Average Siz
8.2.2    Progressive Houses                  P verago Size
4. B!DDIOS
4.1  SVOA-I8RO Financed Houses
4.1.1    2 Bdr. Houss                        Number of Bids
Average Number lot Bidders                                                                   4S
Numbr of Btid
Average Number of Bidders
Average Tern of Construction
4.2 SVOA Financed Houses (without IBRD finances)
4.2.1    Houuee for Urban Central Areas   :Number of BSid
Averoage Number of Bidders
Average Terms of Construction
4.2.2    Progressive lHouss                :Number of Bids
:Average Numetr of Bidder
Avernge Terns of Construction
0 M
0
00l



C.Y.                                                                                            19     199   1ow   1991    1992    19im
SEMESTRAL                                                                                          2   1  2   1  2   1  2    1  2    1
S    DON PAYMENTS PER TYPE OF HOUSE
(As average of Percentage of Price House)
5.1 SVOA-IMRO Financed Houses
6.1.1    2 Bdr. Houses                     : Contractual Saving
6.1.2    8 Bdr. Houss                      : Rel Down Payment
6.2   SOA Financed Houses
6.2.1    Houses for Urban Central Ares       Contractual Savings
6.2.2    Progrzssive Houses                  Rel Down Payment
6. IPVs. MORTGAGE CREDITS
6.1  SYVA-IBRD Financed House
6.1.1    2 Bdr. Houss                      :Numbr
Average Amount (US*S eq.)
Interest Rate (U)
6.1.2    3 Bdr. Houss                      :Number                                                                                       un
Average Amount (USS eq.)
Average Term (months)
Interest Rate (X)
6.2 SVOA Financed Houses
8.2.1    House for Urban Central Ares        Number
Average Amount (US2 eq.)
Average Term (months)
Interest Rate (1)
6.2 SVOA Financed Houses
6.2.1    House for Urban Central Aroes       Number
Average Amount (USS eq.)
Average Term (months)
Interest Rate (X)
C,
c. 



C.Y.                                                                                          1988   1989   1896   1991    1992    1993
SEESTRAL                                                                                        2   1 2   1 2   1 2    1 2    1
6.2.2    Progr ssive Houses                 Number
Avrage MAount (US1 *q.)
: Average Toro (months)
: Interest Rate )
7. SUBSIDY LEVEL
7.1  SVOA-IBRD Financed House
7.1.1    2 Bdr. Houses/Beneficiaries with
incose of loes than USBI1)       % Poreentago  of Subsidization (see note)
M ount of Subsidization
7.1.1    2 Bdr. Houses (other than 7.1.1) : Percentage of Subsidization
Amount of Subsidization
7.1.2    3 Bdr. House                      : Percentage of Subsidization
M ount of Subsidization
7.2   SVOA Financed House  (without IBRD Finances)
7.2.1   Houses for Urban Central Ares       Percentage of Subsidization
MAount of Subsidization
7.2.2    Progressive Houses                 Percentage of Subsidization
(built under program developed
with Municipalities)              MAount of Subsidization
8.   APPLICANTS HOUSING REGISTRY
8.1  Provinces with New Reaistry Sysvt            Number
8.2   SVOA-IBRD Financod House
8.1.1    2 Bdr. Houses (USS1U inco m)       Number
6.1.1    2 Bdr. Houses (othor than 6.1.1)   Number
8.1.2    3 sdr. Houvse                      Number
8.1.3    Improvemsnt Loans                  Number
8.3   SVOA Financed Houses
8.3.1   Houses for Urban Contral Ars s        Number
8.3.2    Progressive Houses                 Number
o0o
.o-L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~



C.y.                                                                                          1966   1969   19s   1991    1992    199
SEMESTRAL                                                                                        2   1 2   1 2   1 2    1  2    1
9.   MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO OF EACH lPV
9.1   Transition Portfolio (Loans subJect to FONAVI ResolutiLa 1261
9.1.1    Credit                            : Number
9.1.2    Mortgages                         : Number
9.1.3    Total Volume Outstanding         : US eq.
9.1.4    Delinquency Rate*                 : X
9.1.5    Foreclosures                      : Number
9.2   Now Portfolio (Loans oranted Pursuant FONAVI Prooram  llesolutions)
9.2.1    SVOA-IBRD Financed Houses
9.2.1.1    2 Bdr. Houses (less USU1I0  income)
9.2.1.1.1  Credits         : Numbeir
9.2.1.1.2 Mortgages
9.2.1.1.3  Total Vol.
Outstanding     : US$ e1.
9.2.1.1.4 Dolinquency o
Rate            : X                                                                                    un
9.2.1.2    2 8dr. Houses (for beneficiaries other than 9.2.1.1)
9.2.1.2.1  Credits         : Numbe-
9.2.1.2.2  Mortgags        : Number
9.2.1.2.3  Total Vol.
Outstnding      : USS *C.
9.2.1.2.4  Dolinquency s
Rate            :X
9.2.1.2.6 Foreclosures    : Number
9.2.1.3    8 Bdr. Houses
9.2.1.3.1  Credits         :Number
9.2.1.3.2  Mortgagee         Number
9.2.1.3.3  Total Vol.
Outstanding     : USt ecr.
9.2.1.8.4 Delinquency s
Rate            :3                                                                                      0
9.2.1.3.6  Foreclosure.      Number                                                                                  .
0



c.y.                                                                                            1988   1989   1890   1991    19m      1993
SEMESTRAL                                                                                          2   1 2   1  2   1  2    1  2    2
9.2.2    SVOA Financed House, without IBRO financins
9.2.2.1    Houses for Urban Central Arose
9.2.2.1.1  Credits          : Number
9.2.2.1.2  Mortgges         : Number
9.2.2.1.3  Total Vol.
Outstanding     : USS eq.
9.2.2.1.4  Delinquency e
Rate            : X
9.2.2.1.S  Foreclosures    : Number
9.2.2.2    Progressive Houses
9.2.2.2.1  Credits          : Number
9.2.2.2.2  Mortgags         : Number
9.2.2.2.3  Total Vol.
Outstanding       USS eq.
9.2.2.2.4  Delinquency o
Rate            : X
9.2.2.2.6  Foreclosures    : Number
10. REVENUES FONAVI TAX PER PROVINCE
10.1  Monthly Revenue                                   USS eq.
10.2  Monthly Outstanding
10.2.1   Private Employer and
Self employed                          : USS eq.
10.2.2   Provincial Govornment                  : USI eq.
10.2.3   Municipal Covernments                  : USS eq.
10.2.4   Others                                 : USS eq.
10.3 Averago Delay in Receiving Revenuos
- days
04
m ><
Fh
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0'
0



C. Y.                                                                                           19      1909   1890  l199     1992    1998
SEMESTRAL                                                                                          2   1 2   1  2   1  2    1  2    1
11.  DISBUSEMENTS
11.1 Amounts disbursed from Special Account
11.1.1   For 2 Bdr. House                         M USS
11.1.2   For 3 Bdr. Housus                        M USS
11.1.8   For Improvement Loans                     U US$
11.1.4   For Technical Assistance                 M USS
11.1.6   For Auditing                             1 USS
11.2 Disbursement of Funds
11.2.1   For 2 Bdr. House                         M USS
11.2.2   For 3 Bdr. Houses                        M US$
11.2.3   For Improvement Loans                    M USS
11.2.4   For Technical Assistance                 M USS
11.2.5   For Auditing                             M US1
11.2.6   For Houeos in Urban Contral
Areas                                    M USS 1
11.2.7   For Progressive Houses                   M USS
11.2.8   Others (detail)                          M USS
12.  TIME TABLE OF STUDIES
12.1 Part C (i) of the Projoct (Sector Information System)
12.1.1   Employmnt of Consultants                 dats
12.1.2   Procurement of Equipment (No. of
Bids - average costs)                    date
12.1.3   Installation completed                   date
12.1.4   Bank coments                             date
12.1.6   Plan of Action                           date
12.2 Part C tii) of the Project (Control and Manageont
of FONAVI's Portfolio)                                                                                                                  zo z
12.2.1   Employment of Consultants              : date
12.2.2   Complotion of Studies                    d date
12.2.3   Study furnished to the Bank              date                                                                                   1h
12.2.4   Plan of Action propared                                                                                                         OD
including Bank's co_mentu                date
12.2.6   Follow up



C.Y.                                                                                           1988   1989   1890   1991    1992    1993
SEiESTRAL                                                                                         2   1 2   1 2   1 2    1 2    1
12.3 Part C (iiI) of the Project (Strenghthening and
Reforming Funds Collection System)
12.3.1   Employment of Consultants                date
12.3.2   Completion of Studios                    date
12.3.3   Study furnished to the Bank              date
12.3.4   Plan of Action prepared
including Bank's comments               date
12.386   Follow up
12.4  Part C (iv) of the Project (Studies on National
System on low-income housing financing)
12.4.1   Employment of Consultants                date
12.4.2   Completion of Studies                  . date
12.4.3   Study furnished to the Bank            : date
12.4.4   Plan of Action prepared
including Bank's comments               dato
12.4.5   Follow up
12.6  Part C (v) of the Project (Legal Framework)
12.6.1   Employment of Consultants              : date
12.5.2   Completion of Studies                  : date 
12.5.3   Study furnished to the Bank              date
12.6.4   Plan of Action prepared
Including Bank's comments               date
12.5.6  Follow up
13.   HOME IMPROVEMENT LOANS
13.1     Improvement Loans
13.1.1   Credits                                : Number
13.1.2   Guarantees                             : Number
13.1.3   Total Vol.
Outstanding                             US3 eq.
13.1.4   Delinquency e
Rate                                    X
13.1.6  Paymen' demanded under guarantee         Number
m
1/ Calculated in accordance with Table to Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.                                                                        c
2/ Definition of delinquency:  Loan would be deemed to be delinquent if any payment remains unpaid after 90 days                                  
of the due date.



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1
Sunmry of K-y Features of Current and Proposed Loan Systems
CURRENT              __ PROPOSEDO_
Som-                       Some-
Yes   No    ti..s           Yoe   No   times
(a) Cost of Unit:
(l)     Land                                               X              X
(ii)    On Site Infreetructure                X                           X
(Mil)   Superstructure                        X                           X
(tv)    Administration Cost                         X                     X
(b)   Unit Types:                                   Flve basic typeo  with      Two basic types:
various sub-types.          (1) as m2; 2 Rooms;
approx. US11,700.
Approx. US813,000-          (11) 48 m2; 8 Rooms;
US820,000                       approx. US81S,00.
Hoa Improvement loans of
approx. US1,800.
(c)   Loan Conditions:
(1)     Capital                               Outstanding Principal:      Payments adjusted monthly by
Semstral adjustments        Industrial Worker Salary Index
by Industrial wage          (ISPI) with Interest rate of
index (ISPI) in 16, 20,    0.7 mo.  Loan payment in 26 yrs.
26, 40 years.               for houses and In 6 yrs. for
home lmprovement loans.
(i)    Interest Rate                         No interest.                8.78X real (year).
(iii)   DOcile of household                   Lowest 8.                   Lowost 4.
Incom level qualifying
for program
(iv)    Beneficiary quallfications            Varies by province          Uniform basis with comon
but includes indices        criteria and weights and
on need and socTo-          premium for prior saving within
economic level,             the various qualified household
income levels.



FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 2
Essential Feature .of Propoed Nw Mortgage Repayment System
Incom          Monthly      Gross Cost       Gross         Monthly      Absolute      Relative  Monthly Payment
Percentile       Incom         of House    Monthly Cost      Payment        Monthly     Mortgage  as a percentage
USB           USS            US            USS        Subsidy US$    Subsidy      of income
65            <100           8,700         4  */           15            81            715          165<
55-255      100-20            6,700         48 y            22             24           675         10X-22%
256-40X      2B0-280           8,600         59 c/           49             10           21X         18B-21X
(40X           <280           1,800         37 d/           87             -             -          13X<
cr
/ Amortized over 800 monthly quoteas with a real monthly interest rate of 0.7X and with a down payment of 8.4X.
b/ Amortized over 300 monthly quotas with a real monthly interest rate of 0.75 and with a downpaym_nt of 56.
c/ Amortized over 300 monthly quotas with a real monthl} interest rate of 0.75 and with a downpayment of 8.8X.
d/ Amortized over 60 monthly quotas with a real monthly interest rate of 0.75 and without any down payment.
NOTE: Adjustment to b  made according to the ISPI.                                                                                       oc
: 2s



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
First Housing Sector Loan
Technical Assistance Component
I. Sector Information System
1.       SVOA currently  lacks  an  information  system  essential  for the
design of new housing policies and for monitoring their implementation.
The system would be necessary to have a continuous estimate of unsatisfied
demand, up to date knowledge of ongoing programs, including housing awards,
and provide current data on the capacity of the construction industry.
2.       In addition, SVOA requires information for its internal management
control for project evaluation, budgetting of the financial resources, and
programming of future work.   Moreover,  equipment  is required to enable a
smooth and rapid exchange of data between the IPVs and SVOA.
3.       Current  Problems:    SVOA,  at   present  is  unable  to  process
statistical information which could provide a detailed and accurate picture
of its past activities.  There  is little control of the mortgage portfolio
and of the amounts due  to  PONAVI.    Most information work is carried out
manually and large amounts of  data  are  stored in conditions that make it
next to impossible to retrieve it in a timely fashion.
4.       Objectives:  The program to strengthen the SVOA information system
aims at improving the management of FONAVI funds; improve programming and
control  of  FONAVI  funds;  improve  programming  and  control  of  FONAVI
resources; improve the data on demand and on the recovery of made loans;
avoid non-programmed subsidies, centralize and process data from the IPVs,
improve the knowledge of the contracting industry; improve financial
management and improve the allocation of resources.
5.       Hardware:  A computing  center  would  be  established at SVOA, to
receive data from six regional interconnected centers in the IPVs of Buenos
Aires, Corrientes, Cordoba, Santa fe, Tucuman and Neuquen. The central
computer would have a memory capacity Prog. CPU 6/12 MB. The Regional
computers would have a  memory  of  processing  CPU  2/4  MB.   Each of the
remaining 18 IPVs would receive a computer with a memory of processing CPU
1 MB.    The  hardware  would  include  back  up  cartridges,  printers and
terminals for each regional computer. All equipment would be compatible.
6.       Software:  Multiuse and multiprocessing Capacity for use of COBOL,
FORTRAN, "C', LINK or PASCAL. To save time, the Housing Sector Information
System of Colombia, developed with UNDP assistance, would be adapted. This
would also represent a reduction in costs and a more immediate start up of
the system.



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
7.       The project would  include  specialized professional and technical
support (about 37 foreign and 511 local man/months) and related management
equipment for this component.
II. Control and Management of FONAVI's Portfolio
8.       This  component  aims  at  increasing  the  recovery  of  FONAVI's
resourceL such as those allocated to the different IPVs and those provided
as loans to the beneficiaries of FONAVI housing.
9.       With regard to past allocations  to IPVs, studies would be carried
out to determine and quantify the debt of each province. Timetables with
deadlines for the repayment of the debt would be prepared, taking into
consideration the financial possibilities of each province. There would be
follow-up and verification of compliance with these timetables. With
regard to future allocations, an incentive system would determine the
allocations of each province taking into account the degree of compliance
with the repayment due to FONAVI, the management and recovery of the
provincial portfolio, and the degree of compliance with the obligations, as
employers, of the different provinces (payment to FONAVI of 5 tax). The
system of guarantees and responsibilities in force with regard to the lack
of compliance of the tax payment would be also studied.
10.      A possible reform of the FONAVI  law  would be also studied.  This
reform would involve all financial aspects of the repayment, establishing
the necessary indexation and periodicity of the payments, to maintain the
real value  of  FONAVI  investments  in  the  law.    (The project includes
indexation and periodicity based on an interpretation of the current law,
which only establish "minimum conditions"!.
11.       To  improve  portfolio  management,  management  audits  would  be
carried out in each IPV, which aata woald be utilized in the Sector
Information System. Semi-annuai evaluations of the IPVs would be performed
by auditors under SIGEP.   These  evaluations would include compliance with
FONAVI Resolutions dealing with loan repayment, unit costs, beneficiary
selection, provincial allocation criteria, collection procedures, titling,
bidding procedures, etc. This component would also include training of the
SVOA and IPV staff and 150 man/months of auditors.
III. Strengtheu. ng and Reforming Funds Collection System
12.      This component aims at  improving  the  management  by SVOA of the
FONAVI's revenues to  prot  - becter   and  allocate  the  resources.  This
component would include stuuies anid actions in the following areas:
(a) payments by employers --public and private-- and of the self-
employed, through the banking system: how to reduce evasion;
strengthening of the controls, flow of funds from Banks to FONAVI:
how to minimize delays;
(b) collection costs: how to minimize them;
(c) follow-up of payments due by Provincial and Municipal Governments,
as employers;



- 65 -
ANNEX R
Page 3 of 4
(d) the possible reduction of the level of the FONAVI tax, in the
light of the possible improvements in the yield tax through lower
evasion and through the higher recuperation of existing mortgages
will be  studied.    The  possibility  of  establishing  a housing
finance system through the Annual National Budget will also be
analized. This component would inclade about 40 man-months of
local consultants.
IV. Studies on Saving and Alternative Uses for Housing Credit
13. This component aims at developing a national system of housing finance,
evaluating the effectiveness of all existing programs and possible new
ones, taking into account all possible ways to mobilize savings towards
housing. The important contribution of all non-government organizations,
such as cooperatives, mutuals, unions, and other communities organizations
will be considered. The possibility of establishing a new system based in
the introduction of subsidy vouchers and attention of the demar.d by -'he
private sector will be  studied.    The  components  would include abort 50
man/months of local consultants.
V. Studies on the Legal Framework
14. This component aims at studying all Laws and Regulations of the sector,
the use of SVOA Directives, possible legal reforms, a proposal for a
National Housing Law, and possible reforms to the bidding procedures. This
component would include about 20 man/months of local consultants.



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Technical Assistance
(in Thousands of US$)
COMPONENTS                             LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL       FEC Z
A.     SECTOR INFORMATION SYSTEM
(i)   Equipments                       168       672        840         80
(ii)   Studies and training           2,054       753      2,807         30
B.     Administration of
Mortgage Poctfolio              924       315      1,239         29
C.     Upgrading of Collection
Procedures                      64         28         92        30
D.     Savings and Loans System          92         40       132         30
E.     Legal Framework                   49         21        70         30
F.     Project Auditing and
Management Evaluation         1,860       850      2,710         30
G.     Project Coordination             119         51       170         30
TOTAL COSTS                    5,330     2,730      8,060        35



- 67 -
;-)... 9
ARGENTINA
First HousLng Sector Pro10ct
Urban Household Income Distribution. October 1986
Monthly     Monthly         Percentage
Monthly Income      Perecntage                         AvOrag-      Average        of Housing
of           Cumulative        Income       Income 1/    with Housing
Australes        Households        Perecntago      Australes       USS         Deficit
Below     110          4.12              4.12         Below 110      Below 97          7.41
111      220         15.72             19.82               165           146         21.02
221     330         14.7S             34.52               275           243         21.32
331     440         14.52             49.02               385            341        14.5%
441     660         20.35             69.35                550           487        19.52
661     880         11.15             80.42                770           681         7.22
881   1,100          7.82             88.25               990            876         4.45
Above   1,100         11.82             100.05        Abovo 1,100   Above 973           4.7%
1/  Convorsion between October Australes and USS made at official rate of US$1 * Australe
1.13
21 Using SVOA's definitions of what constitutes housing deficLt
Source: SVOA periodic household survey, Octobor 1986.



FRaST Nouwwie SECrOS emo.Cr
TOTmL                 Y1M as JUg-SE  to"9          VEA  2: JR*-MEC S990         WM  3: JUl-OfC IM9          VIM  4: J1Ul-OEt 1992
COMUe"IwI                    LOCAL   FOREIG      term.      LOCAL    FOREIGN   T0t.    LSEa.   ORMoaN    rota.    LOCA    Fauna.   roft.    L0U.    F1on            raota
A.".-S.d.-.o.. 1g.w*         149.677    66.023   23?.900    23.160   14.064   38.Ob4   44.163   26.40?    ?I."7   44.933   26.40?   71.370   36.970   21.126   6?.0*b
S.ttw..-S.*..  Hg.aa          96,314    55.301   163.616    13.730    6.64    24.1576   29.494   16.390   46.066   29.494   16.690   46.066   23.69        13.272   36.660
2. Ho..ing t...om...t L.w..        39.396    23.136    62.636      6.304    3.702   10.006   11.619    6.942    16.761   11.619    6."4       MM76      9.466    6,353   16.009
31. t .4...... No.ets-0m            6.268     2,026      6.106       642      464    1.296    1.660        661    2.430    1.90        S51    2.430    1.264       Go0    1,944
4. Sm...*..a.                      15,483         0    16.463      2.472        0    2.472    4.636         0    4.626      4.636        0    4.636    3.709         a    3.709
S. ta...                           36.694         0    36.694      6.176        0    6.176    I1.66         0    &1.67"    11.636a 0 S11.67             9.263        0    9.263
raua. P0KCT am COStr               346.101   269.296 5 16. I"      66.604   27.00    62.692   104.036   6O.M    164,66    104.00   60.M6  164.66    63.266   40,631   1236
PBPC.1 C~.9L                       3.4.610    16.930    61.620     1.350    2.709    6.269   10.407    6.079    Is.40    10.40?    6.079   16.456    6.326    4.13   12:309O
PWi.. C..*l..g..-t..               27.004    13.179    40.163        916      44?    1,363    S.in3    2.139      7.742    9.401    4.666    13.m   11.4a    6.606    17.0    OD
tOEW. 560.2Cr COST                 46.696    I99.406   G06.002    61.970   30.243   92.214  119.660   66.406   176.066   123.m3   60.466   164.334   10.6         0,299   163.36G,
I                                                               - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                              



-69 -
ANNEX 11
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1
Implementation Pro2ram
Total
1988-92   1989    1990      1991     1992
No. Units Housing 2 Bdrs.         39,000    6,240  11,700   11,700    9,360
No. Units Housing 3 Bdra.        20,550    3,288   6,165    6,165    4,932
No. Housing Improvement Loans   39,550    6,328  11,865   11,865    9,492
Total Units                99,100   15,856  29,730   29,730   23,784
Total X                 100       16      30       30        24



-70 -
AX%RE= 12
irst RousLa Sector Protect
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank           Disbursements         Cumulative
Calendar          Each Quarter       Disbursements
Ouarter Endina       (USS million)       CUSS million)
PY89
Dec. 31, 1988            15.0               15.0              5.0
March 30, 1969           10.0               25.0              6.3
June 30. 1969            10.0               35.0             11.6
ry9o
Sept. 30. 1989           10.0               45.0             15.0
Dec. 31. 1969            10.0               55.0             18.3
March 30. 1990           25.0               60.0             26.7
June 30, 1990            25.0              105.0             35.0
frl2
Sept. 30. 1990           20.0              125.0             41.7
Dec. 31. 1990            20.0              145.0             46.3
March 30. 1991           20.0              165.0             55.0
June 30, 1991            20.0              185.0             61.7
FY92
Sept. 30, 1991           20.0              205.0             68.3
Dec. 31. 1991            20.0              225.0             75.0
March 30, 1992           15.0              240.0             80.0
June 30, 1992            15.0              255.0             65.0
.  9l
Sept. 30, 1992           15.0              270.0             90.0
Dec. 31, 1992            15.0              285.0             95.0
March 30, 1993           10.0              295.0             98.3
June 30, 1993             5.0              300.0            100.0



/ X   1 es           0 
I                      .
r                           II  I  F
-~~~~~~a                          S I
I~~~~-
.3~~~
S~ ~ S t-t
-~~~ TI 



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 5
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Chart 2
Kev Assumptions for Flow of Funds Proiections
SOURCES
A.  FONAVI Tax Receipts:
1.    Baseline: Stabilized 1988 forward, based on wage tax of 5Z.
2.    Project Improvement: Implementation of Provincial and Municipal
'Compliance Plans", based on results of 'Sector Information
System" and 'Control and Management of FONAVI's PortfolUom
components of Technical Assistance Program. US$53 million
target beginning in 1990 based on best estimate currently
available, conservatively adjusted.
B. Cost Recovery:
1.    Baseline:
a. Old Program: no improvement over historical levels
(US$55.41unit/year) for approximately 240,000 units already
occupied.
b. Transition Program: no improvement over historical levels
for approximately 140,000 units with legal commitments to
construct, but not occupied.
2.    Project Improvements:
a. Old Program: improvements resulting from the project's
'Control and Management of FONAVI's Portfolio" produce a 10l
increase in annual cost recovery over historical levels.
b. Transition Program: for approximately 120,000 units
committed by 12/31187, but not occupied by 3/31/88, with a
unit cost of US$16,000, and for approximately 20,000 units
committed but not occupied by 3/31/88 with a unit cost of
US$13,000, transitional system (Resolution 120 with monthly
payments adjusted for inflation, no interest, and with
downpayment of 50Z of monthly payment, for 30 months).
Program arrears estimated at 40Z in FY89 and FY90 and 35Z
thereafter.
3.  New Program: (Bank financed part only)
(i) Beneficiary Savings: average of 6.51 of unit's total cost
(none for upgrading).



- 73 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 5
(it) Mortgage Payment: new mortgage system with arrears of 25Z.
Assumes 95Z of total program expenditures for housing units
(5Z for administration and supervision, including TA), with
housing units allocated as follows: 511 2br; 34% 3br; 14Z
upgrading. Housing mortgage conditions: 8.71 p.a. interest;
term of 25 years, no grace. Upgrading conditions: same as
above, except term of 5 years.
C. Borrowings:
1.   Proposed IBRD loan - from proposed implementation schedule.
2.   Ongoing IDB loan   - from implementation schedule of Global Urban
Development Program (AR-0066)
USES
A.   Operational Expenses - 5Z of total expenditures.



- 74 -                                            ANNEX 13
1111lUlA                                     Page 4 of 5
FIRSt HOuSING SICTOR PROJECT
Table I
CONSGLIDaTRD MLuW of IPNDS op 101111 HOUSING PKCGi8H
Nilllios of 9S$ of iuoe 13991
!3895    1986       !387       981      1989      1990      1991      1392      1333      Ii34      ;i35
..... ....  ---     ---       ----      ----      ---       ---       ---       ---       ....      ... ..
SOUICES                           ------- (ictial) -------
A. 10UII tar Receipts
1. Bseline */                   569       870       803       694       694       694       694       694       694       694       694
2. Project Improveaent            0         0         0         0        2?        53        53        53        53        53        53
B. Cost Recovery
1. Duelise
a. Old Program                 3         8        13        13        13        13        13        13        13        13        13
2. Project lmprovements
a. Old Program                                                                   I         I         I         I          I         I
b. transition Program                                        7        I?        32        43        51        55        57        5?
3. few Prog. (IBi only)
a. Besefic. savigs                                                     5         9         9         7
b. Uortgage Payments                                                   6        16        26        35        35        35        35
C. Borroinlls
1. Proposed IBD loan                                          19        40        90        80        60        15
2. Ongoing IDB loan                                             5        45        49        22
D. Other Sources
1. IDB Loan ltpayseat                                                                                             13        13        13
TOTAL SOUICES                      572       8Il       816       734        846       959       942       919       880       866       866
USES
A. Operational Expenses b/          28        44        40         35        36        37        31        37        37        37        37
B. Debt Service
1D IDl  aou                                                     2         4         7         9        11         11        11        11
2. Proposed IBID loan c1                                                  6        13        19        48         49        49        49
C. Inestmests
1. Trasslitios Progras          442       628      1019       688       508       300        83
2. E   St0IUIBD Program                                                  94       179       175       140
3. Subtotal Rousing             442       628      1019       688       594       475       258       140          3         0         0
4. IDB Infrast. Project                                        10       107        76        69
5. Subtotal Couited             442       628      1019       698       701       991       327       140          0         0         0
TOtML USES                         470       672       1059       735       747       609       392       237        98        98        38
SORFPLS/(DIFICIT) d/               102       207      (243)         0        99       350       550       678       782       768       168
a/ Projections based on January to April 19881 actual receipts.
b/ Includes technical assistance fizanced under proposed 118D loan.
c/F or sonitoring of project ispact, the Bank's previous terms, including 3 years grace. are used.
d/ blginning in 1989, any surplus sould be available for additional housing finacial outside tke Bank-finaced program.
lOtE: Totals mat not add up because of rounding.
SouRClE 5101 and Bank estimates (Chart 3)



- 75 -                                        ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 5
ARGIETINA
FIIST HOUSING SECTOR PlOJICt
Table 2
INCRIEENTAL FLOW 01 15NDS RESULTING FROM PROJICT
(Billions of US$ of June 1988)
1988     1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996      1997      1998
Incremental Revenues         ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(let of Loans)
j Prov I Nun Tax Pats                 0        27        53       53        53        53       53        53        53        53       53
Old Program                         0         0         1        1         1         1         1        1         1         1         1
Transition Program                  7        17        32       43        51        55       57        5T        57        5?       57
New Progras                         0        11        25       36        42        35       35        35        35        35       35
Total Revenues                      7        54       112      133       147       145      146       146       146       146      146
Incre. Recurrent lipend.
Operational Expenses                          5         9        9        11         6        6         6         6         8        6
Debt Service
IBID                                        6       13        19        48       49        49        49        49       a9 
IDB                               2         4        7         9        11       11        11        11        11       11        11
Total Expenditures                  2        15       29        36        71        66       66        66        66       B6        a
EIT ILON                            5        39       83        97        77       78        80        80        80       80        so
INPROVEENTR AIO a/                  4         5        6         5         2        2         2         2         2        2         2
TAl RECEIPTS I RITE OF:
[   5S                    694       721       747       747      747       747       741      747       747       74?       741
I% iS555                            577       598      598       598       598       598      598       598       598      598
3S                        416       433       448      448       448       448       448      448       448       448      448
INDIPINDENT PSG (IS$ millions) b/
5S                           0       99       350      550       678       782       768      768       768       768      766
4%                       -139       -45       200      401       528       633       619      619       619       619      619
3S                       -278      -189        51      252       379       483       470      470       470       470       470
INDIPENDERT ISG UNITS (thousands) c/
5S                           0       15        53        83      102       118       115      115       115       115       115
42                        -21        -7        30        60       79        95        93       93        93        93       93
31                        -42       -28         8        38       57        73        71       71        71        71        1t
a/ Sun of all incremental revenue improvements divided by total debt service (IDRD and IDB)
b/ Surplua available for additional housing financing outside the Bank-financed program (see Table 1)
c/ Use of independent program at average unit cost of $6400.



- 76 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return of Project Components
1.       The economic feasibility of  the  project  has been calculated for
each of the three major project components: the economic houses with two
bedrooms, the intermediate houses with three bedrooms, and the upgrading of
existing housing. In all cases, the economic benefits have oeen measured
by the imputed rents, i.e., the prevailing market rents for comparable
houses in different provinces in Argentina, such imputed monthly rents have
been conservatively estimated at A 300 and A 400, respectively. For the
upgrading component it has been assumed that the most common use of such
funds would be to  add  one  bedroom.    The associated incremental benefit
would then be the increase in imputed monthly rent, or A 100.
2.       The costs for each  component  have  been  taken  net of taxes and
other non-economic items  such  as  financial  transfer  costs.   An annual
allowance for maintenance costs of 1.9% have been added to maintain the
houses during their assumed 40-year life.
3.       The internal rates of  return  resulting from discounting the debt
benefit stream over 40 years are 17% for the economy houses with two
bedrooms, 18Z for the intermediate houses with three bedrooms, and 19% for
the upgrading program. The economic feasibility is therefore assumed since
all rates are above the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Argentina
measured as the return on marginal productive investments. The economic
analysis  represents  a  conservative   estimate   of  benefits  since  the
intangible benefits in the form of a better social environment with full
basic services cannot be quantified.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.       Sensitivity analysis has been  applied  to test the sensitivity of
the economic feasibility to adverse changes in made assumptions. Under one
scenario, economic benefits have been lowered by 15% while keeping costs
constant. Such a case could occur if the future beneficiaries would
perceive the project houses as less desirable than similar rental housing.
This unlikely situation would lower the rates of return for the two-bedroom
houses, 14% for the three-bedroom houses 132 and to 15% for the upgrading
component. Under another scenario, benefits have been kept constant and
costs have been increased by 151. This would happen if lower-than-expected
competition among housing contractors or inelastic supplies of labor and
building materials drove up prices. In such a case the rates-of-return for
two-bedroom houses and three-bedroom houses would drop to 13% and 14%
respectively and to 16% for the upgrading component. Finally, under the
most adverse scenario, benefits could be 15% lower and costs could be 15%
highe:. In this improbable case, the rates-of-return for two bedroom
houses and three-bedroom houses would be 10% and 11% respectively, and 13%
for the upgrading component.



- 77 -
ARCEPTIAA                                                P.6  2 of 2
,FIR5T AIISINO SiCTR PROJECT
Inte-nal R*to of Rt,u.r  of P,oiaet Coonent
cre   in Dscee'be, 1987
1           2-40
Two-'edrooM Econoic Houcse                                S.neiti..t. Anl-s,
0-f ts                                                    Benefits Doe  151. Cost Unchanged      Ret. of 't,urn - 131
Blnofita UnchWnged, Coots up 159       Rot. of Rotur.   * 131
Int.tod R                      3,600       3.600         BEnefit. Doen 15%. Costa uYp 11         Ret  of R*turn * LOS
Costs
ConS,  t on                   23,000       ----
Ni.nte..nc.                      j 4dO       440
Totl Costo                   23.440         440
Net B8n.fits                (-19,840)      3.160
Intarnsl Rat u-of-rn t     161
Thr..-Ded,oom Intereadista House.
Benef i t
Inputed Rant                   4.000      4,800          Benef it Dosn 11S. Costs Unchanged       Ret. of Return * 141
Ceoos                                                    Benefit. thnchasngd, Cost. up 151        Ret. of Return - 141
Benefte  Ooen 152, Cost. up l5          Re oaf Return * 11
Construction                   9.200       ---
Maintyn.nce                    __O           SJO
Total cst.                   (29.250)        IS0
Net Benefit.                (-24,4J0)      4.250
Intmrnal Ret*-of-Rtur    1791
Ugpr-dins Coeoong.t
t                        8 ~~~~~~Bnefit.
Inputed Rent Increre-          1.200        1,200        Ben4its Doms 151. Costs Unchans         Ret. of Return * 161
8e"*f;t. Unechnged, Cost, up 151       Ret. of Return - 161
Benefit. Does 181, Coes up 15          Rete of Return - 13
Conetruction                   6800          ---
teintenance                     __0         __0
Tot.I Coot.         8,920          120
Not Benefit.        (5.77))      1,080
Intor-el Reta-of-Roturn - 191



B  O  L I V  I A',                                                          OCTOBER198
SOUTH                                    BscI  v          \
AMERICA                             OOa
,' ',< , PPARAGUAY
Argentina~~    A4, ad>d    o
C                   DELr ;\=EJXRC  ' I'             X    ^ORRIENTES /'
-~~~~~~~~~~~~H I                             J
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                        bwwdoT4  de ,.gs
d.                             PnSADAS 
Q    io~~~]  m     t;4a           W     C o nsc  d.o  t._A,_Q  1 O
I  J_-. SAN IT c                                R   A   Z   I 
C a ATSAN .AFAE5L CU  15   (   X .CHA~O             FOSd lOs bAIR E                       S
&~~~~~~~~otg d>   - --l ,--2 ,  \ .  ooiv POSAOAS
f~~~~~~~~~Etr |P MP SA'oo:  BURENTE$                                      I   ES|
z                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30'
i~~~~~~~~~~~~Ciuo Gnleguot)   \
SAN I Q UooHI                                  Eo
/   0*SN RAELUIS'\                                    UNOAIES
G I    ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~                MONTE' IDEO
~~~RI,o. ~  2    Cop..   Aw4ono
1.>~~~~AP NEUOUE                       BUENO
AA                    MAR D  PLATA
,2vf 42    i O N EGRO        > 
N I J                                                  ARGENTINA
RIVADAVIA
.......Primary roads
RdPaved or gravel roads
Earth roads
5 A N T ~~~~~~~~~~*Principal airports
C R U Z                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial boundaries
El Sak&                                   International boundaries
-SW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
tot~ ~ ~ )t co     o        U8 UT .
rf~~t PrimrJry ror dswV
teoao,f i. Fow a"y                                                                   P     r     l
S go    A N T A    11                                     *   PrIERRA DEL
C-6 TN      Rb GALLFUEGOS                         20          400        600        80
b~ rw V. b.dw M_
M VW." d.  -f                                                                  KILOMETERS
pO Oft. tIboJam*                        .  ff.
Ottt.0wtO,.0oe rCrotpoo~[ -                  F0                                    200      300   o00         soo
ylO.O oraoototf                     -  -                                            MILES
1W                       ~~~~~~~~~~60'                      S



