Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13194
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR
(LOAN 2997-AR)
JUNE 22, 1994
Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUrVALENTS
Currency Unit = Argentinean Peso
Exchange Rate
I US Dollar = I Peso
(Since April 1, 1991, the exchange rate has been established by law)
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHN          -     National Mortgage Bank
(Banco Hipotecario Nacional)
FONAVI    -        National Housing Fund
(Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda)
IPV          -     Provincial Housing Institute
(Instituto Provincial de la Vivienda)
SVOA        -      Secretariat of Housing and Environmental Management
(Secretaria de Vivienda y Ordenamiento Ambiental)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
iffice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 22, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Argentina
First Housing Sector Project (Loan 2997-AR)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Argentina - First Housing Sector
Project (Loan 2997-AR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
This was the first Bank assistance to the housing sector in Argentina. The US$300
million loan was designed to help the government reform sector policies and to reduce the deficit in
low-cost housing. All but less than US$22 million were cancelled at the Borrower's request.
Project risks were correctly identified but underestimated, and thus were inadequately
reflected in project design. Volatile economic conditions and insufficient government commitment
hindered reform.   Constant staff changes in executing ministries and agencies impeded
implementation. The inherent limitation of central government management of dispersed housing
investments was another complicating factor. The project was not restructured because of the lack
of ownership by borrowers and executing agencies as well as the different policy introduced by the
new government.
The PCR gives a satisfactory account of the circumstances which led to the
cancellation and allocates fairly responsibilities for the failure. Overall, the project outcome is rated
as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely, and its institutional impact as negligible.
The project may be audited together with other large housing projects in Latin
America.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K8pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR
(LOAN 2997-AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ...............................   i
Evaluation Summary  .............u ;-iv
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....1.... 
A.     Project Identity ............          ..............................  1
B.     Background    ............................................                    1
C.    Project Objectives and Description ...........................  2
D.    Project Preparation, Design and Organization ...................  3
E.     Project Implementation  ...................................  4
F.     Lessons Learned From the Implementation Process ....              ..........  8
G.    Project Results and Sustainability ...........................  10
H.    Bank Performance  ......................................   10
I.     Borrower Performance ..................................    10
J.     Project Relationships ....................................  10
K.  Consulting Services .11
L      Project Documentation and Data ...........................  11
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....... 12
PART m   STATSTnCAL ENFORMATION  .............................  15
Table 1. Related Bank Loans ...................................  15
Table 2. Project Timetable .....................................   15
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursement ....             ......  15
Table 4. Project Implementation .................................   15
Table SA. Project Financing .................               ...................   15
Table 6. Project Results .......................................   16
Table 7. Status of Major Loan Covenants ..........................  16
Table &  Use of Bank Resources .................................  18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR
(LOAN 2997-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Housing
Sector Project in Argentina, for which Loan 2997-AR in the amount of
US$300 million was approved on October 8, 1988, and became effective on
March 3, 1989. The project's performance was not satisfactory and the loan
was cancelled (US$278.3 million, 92.8 percent) in June 1992 at the request
of the Borrower.
This PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance and Private Sector
Development Division, Department IV of the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office (LA4TF) and is based, inter Aug, on the
President's and the Appraisal Reports, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, final project
analyses prepared by the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
The Govermment of Argentina submitted Part II, Project Review from
Borrower's Perspective on August 23, 1993.



I



- ii -
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR
(LOAN 2997-AR)
EVALUATION SUIMMARY
A. Introduction
1.    The Housing Project was conceived by a newly redemocratized
govemment to correct worsening social conditions while it sought
simultaneously to stabilize its economy. Part of its impetus came from the
expanding shortage of affordable low-income housing, lack of private
building activity and the disappearance of the capital market for housing
finance. Another stimulus was a desire to raise the productivity of public
expenditures and to seek broad gauged sectoral reforms. This interest
focused particularly on social programs seen as poorly justified, inefficiently
managed and only marginally helping the intended beneficiaries.
2.    This was the context within which the project was designed: seeking
to strike a balance between some short-term social benefits and the need for
lasting policy and administrative changes. The loan was ambitious and
complex. It was intended as a funding structure for activities that would
assist the Government in strengthening its housing management for
significantly reoriented operations, in an increasingly unstable economic and
political setting. In the event, the intended contributions were not realized
as, for the reasons indicated below, the project's poor performance led to
cancellation of the loan some 39 months after its effectiveness.
B. Objectives
3.    The overall objective of the project, the first Bank-assisted housing
operation in Argentina, was to help government reform sector policies and
reduce the housing deficit for low income families. The main purposes of
the reforms were to increase the productivity of the National Housing Fund
(FONAVI) programs, improve their finances and targeting, and to reduce
subsidies. The project was to finance construction of low-cost housing and
contained a package of policy improvements.



- iii -
C. Implementation Experience
4.    The RBnk correctly identified the main risks of the operarion as
including the difficulties of altering FONAVI's financial management, the
weaknesses of Federal Government officials, and institutional deficiencies
throughout the housing sector. However, these risks were underestimated,
and the absorptive capacity of the Government overestimated. They were
thus inadequately addressed in project design. The project suffered delavs
and obstacles from the outset. It also was consistently buffeted by extremely
volatile economic and political conditions, inappropriate circumstances for
trying to introduce broad policy and institutional changes. These alone
would have weakened the prospects for success of the project. Unforrunately
however, there was also insufficient government commitment to the goals of
the exercise.
5.    During its implementation. there were constant personnel changes in
the Ministry of Health and Social Action and its Secretariat of Housing and
Environmental Management (SVOA), the Government agency responsible for
defining and executing housing policy, including adrministration of FONAVI.
This instability figured centrally in the project authorities' failure to take the
necessary actions to implement the operation and comply with loan
covenants. In particular. the failure to employ the required financial
manager and other members of the Advisory Committee seriously affected
the management of FONAVI funds. This faulty management contributed as
weUl to poor SVOA control of the Provincial Housing Institutes (IPVs), the
project's executing agencies. It also obstructed the enforcement of SVOA's
agreements with the provinces and municipalities on eligibility conditions for
access to loan funds. The technical assistance programs largely designed to
strengthen SVOA were not well administered.
6.    The Menem administration which took over in mid-1989 seemed to
share the Bank's assessment of the project's difficulties. However,
noncompliance with loan covenants continued, and it became clear that there
were unlikely to be any significant improvements in the project entities or
their interests in carrying out the operation more adequately. With no
remedial action, the Borrower agreed in July 1991, not to apply for
additional disbursements unil major loan covenants were complied with.
The Government requested cancellation of the loan in March 1992, with less
than 8 percent of its proceeds disbursed.
D. Results and Sustainability
7.    Effectively, the project objectives were not achieved.
E. Fmdines and Lessons Learned
The operation was unsatisfactory, mainly for the following reasons:
(a)   There was an under-estimation of the weaknesses of the
institutional structure, the influences of political circumstances,



- iv -
and of the prospects for further deterioration of Argentina's
economic situation.
(b)   Provincial interest in the project progressively waned,
especially as there proved to be insufficient incentives to
encourage them to comply with the loan conditions. Perhaps
this was because the amount of funds which they could have
received from the loan were relatively small compared to the
magnitude of regular FONAVI resources estimated to be
provided during the project implementation period.
Throughout much of this period moreover, the recurrent bouts
of high inflation eroded the value of FONAVI lending to the
extent that it became financially unattractive. Further, there
were increased provincial fiscal problems at the time.
(c)   The Federal Government's centralized administrative system
proved unable to govern a substantial number of individual
investments in this large, regionally diverse country. However,
FONAVI's inability to control the IPVs was not a unique
circumstance. The increased autonomy of the provinces then
under Argentina's resurgent federalism, and the progressive
decentralization of most public services to them have
stringently limited the possibilities of successfully
implementing nationwide projects, especially those involving
all provinces.
(d)   FONAVI's problems and this project experience also
demonstrated that the state had, in many respects, lost its
capacity to effectively direct day-to-day operations, and needed
more drastic medicine than intemal management improvement
campaigns. They also showed that the public administration
had become increasingly unable to apply equitable rules for
dealing with the diverse favored beneficiaries of many
programs, and how entrenched these groups had become.
8.    The project, with the benefit of hindsight, must be judged as too
ambitious an undertaking. The restructuring of entrenched, highly inefficient
Argentine Government institutions in and of itself would not have been easy
in any circumstance. But the approach taken in designing the project was
greatly complicated by the uncertainty of the economic environment.






ARGENTINA
FIRST HOUSING SECTOR
(LOAN 2997-ARG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name:                  Housing Sector I
Loan Number:            2997-AR
RVP Unit:              Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:               Argentina
Sector:                Infrastructure/Urban
Subsector:             Housing
B. Back2round
1.1   The Housing Project was conceived as a newly redemocratized
government's attempt to correct worsening social conditions while seeking
simultaneously to stabilize the economy. It originated from the efforts of the
Alfonsin administration to respond to the economic crisis it inherited when
civilian rule was reinstated in 1983. After some setbacks, the Government
seemed to be effectively taking command. The 1985 change in the economic
team, the shift from gradualism to "shock" treatments, and some initially
successful reform efforts provided a positive backdrop to the administration's
decision to introduce broad sectoral and administrative changes. At the time,
there was impetus for the project stemming from the expanding housing
shortage, lack of private building activity and the disappearance of the capital
market for housing finance. In addition, there was the hope for some
economic growth impact from increased housing construction works (which
amounted to some 6 percent of GDP and provided about 4 percent of
employment in the previous decade). Other stimuli were the desire to raise
the productivity of public expenditures and to help trim the public sector
deficit. This interest focused particularly on social sector programs seen as
poorly justified, inefficiently managed and of little impact on intended
beneficiaries.
1.2  In the light of these factors, in conjunction with requests for other
structural reforms, the Argentine Government asked for a housing sector
project in September 1987, with great urgency. The unmet housing demand
at the time was estimated to be as large as 2.5 million units. Demand for new
housing was increasing at 220,000 units per year, but only about 80,000



-2-
were built in 1986. The need was especially severe among the lower-income
population. The authorities therefore sought to have more houses built for a
larger number of families in the shortest possible time, and more cheaply.
This was the context within which the project was designed: seeking to strike
a balance between some short-term social benefits and the need to achieve
lasting policy and administrative changes. The loan was ambitious and
complex in terms, for example, of efforts to obtain reforms on numerous
fronts, as well as the multiplicity of institutions involved. It was intended as
a funding structure for activities that would assist the Government in
strengthening its housing management for significantly reoriented operations,
in an increasingly unstable economic and political setting. This relied on the
belief that the answer to the great institutional needs in this (as in other) areas
could derive from technical assistance to the key government agencies.
1.3   The appraisal found that low-income housing was financed mainly by
the Housing Secretariat of the Ministry of Health and Social Action (SVOA),
drawing on the proceeds of a 5 percent earmarked tax on salaries and levies
on the self-employed. SVOA allocated monies from the National Housing
Fund (FONAVI) to provincial housing institutes (IPVs) for the latter's
execution of these programs through private construction. It was found that
FONAVI was inefficiently managed and had targeted beneficiaries poorly.
Its houses were costly (about US$20,000 each) and took too long to complete
(around three years). Only about 10 percent of their costs were recovered.
Both FONAVI's salary tax and mortgage payments had been eroding rapidly
with the country's high inflation.
1.4   The project was the Bank's first involvement with public sector
housing in Argentina. Its preparation drew on some reconnaissance on the
sector and, in particular, the deficiencies of existing housing policies that
were identified under the Technical Assistance Project for Social Sector
Management (Ln. 2712), approved on July 26, 1988. A IJNDP housing
study (July 1987) also had identified some sector problems. In addition, the
project was included in the US$1.2 billion package of four loans approved
(including amnendments to a previous loan) in November 1988, in order to
support the new "Plan Primavem" structural reform program.
C. Project Objectives and Description
1.5   The main objectives of the project were reforms in sector policies and
reductions in the housing deficit by rationalizing the use of FONAVI funds.
The project was to finance construction of low-cost housing and contained a
package of policy improvements which included:
*     the establishment of registries of potential beneficiaries in
order to facilitate targeting subsidies and selecting
beneficiaries;
*     new housing designs to lower unit costs;



-3-
*     the relaxation of standards that excessively restricted
innovative, more economic housing designs;
*     improved, standard bidding procedures;
*     a new mortgage repayment system to improve cost recovery;
*     the promotion of savings;
*     transparent subsidies restricted to low income groups; and
*     new rules for allocating FONAVI funds based on such factors
as effective demand, IPVs' repayment records and efficiency.
1.6   The proposed loan was to finance the construction of about 39,000
two-bedroom houses, 20,500 three-bedroom houses, and the improvement
and rehabilitation of about 40,000 existing houses. Up to 15 percent of base
project costs were reserved for improving and rehabilitating substandard
housing. Efforts were to be made to cut construction periods by two thirds.
Uniform contracts were to be used for more transparent procurement. And
the Loan, about 1-1/2 years after effectiveness, was amended to introduce
even less expensive house types for low income groups, and to give FONAVI
more flexibility to providing other housing models (the latter without Bank
financing).
1.7   Loan proceeds together with FONAVI resources and the beneficiaries'
down payments would finance the units to be constructed or imnproved.
FONAVI was to assume the cross-currency and the US dollar exchange risks.
The Loan funds were to be made available to the IPVs in local currency
following agreed allocation criteria spelled out in agreements defining loan
recovery and other obligations. The project housing credits would be repaid
at an annual real interest rate of 8.7 percent over up to 25 years, with
adjustments for inflation. The repayment amounts would vary depending on
the beneficiaries' income levels. This means-based subsidy, in contrast with
the previous over 95 percent levels, would average 37 percent. No subsidies
would be granted to families with incomes above US$280 per month. Only
the lowest 40 percent income earners would qualify for FONAVI house
financing. The loan included funds for technical assistance to carry out
studies and implement recommendations in several areas required to make
SVOA and the IPVs more efficient.
Loan components:
Housing construction loans, US$250 million
Home improvement loans, US$40 million
Technical assistance and auditing services, US$10 million
D. Project Preparation, Design and Organization
1.8  In preparing the project, the Bank correctly identified its main risks as
including the difficulties of altering FONAVI's financial management, the
weaknesses of Federal Government officials, and institutional deficiencies
throughout the housing sector. However, these risks were underestimated,



- 4 -
and the absorptive capacity of the Government overestimated. They were
thus inadequately addressed in project design. Given the Alfonsin
administration's activity then in restructuring much of the administrative
apparatus, and the exceedingly low government salary scales (and
motivation), it is not surprising that the project suffered delays and weak
integration from the outset. However, the persistent discontinuity within the
Social Action Ministry and among the responsible project officers was
unexpected.
1.9   Basically, the project approach was to try to strengthen the existing
public sector institutions without insulating housing programs from the public
sector weaknesses. Questions were raised during project formulation about
whether SVOA and the IPVs had the capacity to carry out all the envisaged
policy reforms. The reply was that the project would provide substantial
technical assistance to strengthen them. In fact, however, the TA itself was
never sufficiently mobilized, let alone brought to bear on the housing
institutions' ills. The project design therefore failed to give adequate
attention to the question of whether even an arnple body of consultants would
suffice to overcome fundamental problems of inadequate national expertise.
1.10 Another of its shortcomings (even after considerable debate about the
scope and scale of the operation) was that the project size was too ambitious.
Moreover, its scheme for centrlly administered operations was faulty in the
face of the Federal Govenmment's waning capabilities and the provinces
growing responsibilities and resources.
1.11 Because of FONAVI's poor financial performance and comparable
provincial problems, the Loan provisions constructively introduced a wide
array of would-be safeguards on these matters. These included new
mortgage instruments and other measures to increase loan recoveries, the
requirement that FONAVI revenue generation be double the size of the Bank
loan repayment obligation, and linking FONAVI allocations to provincial
financial improvements. In addition, release of the Loan's second tranche
was hinged to progress in these improvements. These safeguards however
proved inadequate to offset the effects of the hyperinflation and disarray in
public finances, let alone the breakdown in government operations and
discipline, during the project period.
1 .12 The preparation team aptly identified the danger of lack of continuity
in the Government's willingness to carry out the necessary sector reforms as
a major risk in advancing the Loan. It appeared, however, to have put undue
faith in the initial enthusiasm of the Government to carry out the project.
E. Project Implementation
1.13 During project implementation, SVOA experienced repeated changes
in its administration, and as a result did not undertake the actions needed to
implement the project and comply with loan conditions. SVOA's weaknesses



-5-
reflected operational constraints which were commonplace in the social
sectors: significant politicization of the administrative corps, excessively
rigid regulations, poor management and lower morale, and inadequate funds.
The personnel turnover became so severe that in mid-1989, the composition
of the project unit was completely changed, and its very existence was
threatened. The lack of stability in the personnel ranks of the executing
agency was, moreover, exacerbated by SVOA's failure to hire the covenanted
financial manager and the Advisory Committee he was charged with leading,
despite persistent Bank requests during the course of supervision.
1.14  As the manager's post was effectively vacant throughout the project
period, the intended financial management improvements were not
undertaken. This may have contributed to SVOA's disbursement of US$8.5
million of project funds for ineligible expenses on one occasion. Also,
without the manager, SVOA failed to complete the covenanted development
of the 1989-1992 financial program.
1.15 The Advisory Committee was intended to monitor project
implementation, oversee the provincial entities, and clear ex-ante all
procurement actions, among other tasks. Its complete, sustained staffmg was
therefore vital to the conduct of the project. But SVOA's five changes of
administration during project implementation, along with a dozen Secretariat
resolutions affecting the Committee's authority, prevented the latter from
ever consolidating its role and responsibilities. It was not surprising
therefore that there was no speedy resolution of the project issues which
arose about borrowers' income limits, group savings goals, relating dwelling
types to incomes rather than family sizes, subsidies, repayment terms, etc.
1.16  With the lack of the envisaged improved controls over the IPVs, there
were major shortcomings in the provinces' implementation of the project-
inspired rule changes concerning significant housing system operations.
Govermment audit reports showed that neither SVOA nor a single IPV were
in condition to proceed adequately with the implementation of the project
during 1988-92. All of the foregoing deficiencies contributed to recurrent
delays in project execution and lack of compliance with loan covenants.
1.17 Another significant problem was the provinces and municipalities'
failure to provide the required contributions to and debt regularization with
FONAVI, which comprised a main obstacle to their participation in the
project. The IPVs declared their willingness to comply with, and the
provinces and SVOA duly signed, agreements for the FONAVI debt
regularization. However, actual provincial payments to the Fund ultimately
depended on the governing provincial and municipal officers, who then faced
serious financial difficulties. Their effects emerged in connection with the
Loan Agreement condition calling for the recovery of provincial loan
portfolios on FONAVI's "old" program. The requirement called for the
reduction of payment arrears under this prior program to 40 percent in 1988,
and to 35 percent later, as eligibility criteria for the project funds. In the



-6-
event, there was only erratic fulfillment of this condition. Almost three years
after Loan effectiveness, only 10 potentially eligible jurisdictions had met the
40 percent target (Cordoba, Chubut, Entre Rios, La Pampa, Misiones,
Neuquen, Santa Cruz, Santa Fe, Tierra del Fuego, and Federal Capital).
Even fewer, in essence less than 10 percent of the provinces, met the
35 percent target.
1.18  Many individual consultants were hired to carry out the TA
components as well as to perform numerous line functions. With the almost
constant SVOA personnel changes, the consultants themselves were also
frequently coming and going. Thei work was not monitored, and virtually
no results were obtained. In September 1990, the Bank requested an
assessment of the consultants' performance, which SVOA failed to provide.
Finally in March, 1991, at the Bank's request, SVOA cancelled all
outstanding consulting contracts. It likewise agreed to employ firms for the
technical assistance work instead of individual consultants in order to avoid
further segmentation of tasks and to facilitate monitoring results. Moreover,
it was decided that the Advisory Committee was to select the firms and
supervise the implementation of the technical assistance program. The
streamlined Committee was to consist of four consultants, the most important
of whom would be the financial manager, along with three SVOA staff
members. Notwithstanding these agreements however, since the Advisory
Committee was never effectively manned for any lasting period, these
arrangements were left unrealized.
1.19 Alongside these difficulties, project implementation was severely
affected by Argentina's inflationary currents and other macroeconomic ills at
the time. Input price changes occurred so rapidly that FONAVI borrowers
repeatedly received progressively smaller loans than requested, and their
declining value often disrupted the planned completion of housing repairs and
improvements. These forces and borrowers' declining incomes resulted in
substantially reduced FONAVI collections at the same time that its resources
also lost their purchasing power. Further, these diminishing new FONAVI
resources had other results which also served to compromise the project's
aims. A May 1990 supervision mission found that the authorities, in order to
stimulate economic activity, were sustaining FONAVI's "transition program"
in all provinces despite agreements to the contrary. SVOA's action thus
reduced provincial incentives to meet the new eligibility criteria for access to
the Loan-supported funds, obstructing the initiation of reformed sector rules.
In addition, the limited supply of counterpart funding also discouraged
provincial participation, for which in June 1990, the Bank agreed to increase
temporarily its cost sharing proportion from 50 percent to 70 percent.
1.20 In mid-1989, the precipitous collapse of the Alfonsin government
rised questions about the future of the project. The successor Menem
administration seemed sympathetic to the Bank's concems about the
difficulties in project implementation. However, the project situation failed
to improve while the new economic team began to prepare the way for



-7 -
drastic reforms. The March 1990 suspension of Housing Bank retail
activities effectively terminated this institution's direction of the home
improvement loan component, with less than US$414,000 of the US$40
million Loan proceeds disbursed. Noncompliance with the loan covenants
continued. It in fact worsened when, without consultation with the Bank, the
new authorities in August 1991, moved to transfer FONAVI's wage tax
revenues to benefit the social security system instead, a breach of the Loan
conditions.
1.21 A supervision mission in mid-1991, determined that most of the
agreements reached several months earlier had not been carried out, e.g.,
there was still insufficient progress in hiring the financial manager and
several other members of the Advisory Committee. Further, because of the
aforementioned factors, it became increasingly clear that the IPVs'
incapacities and lack of accountability were mounting. Government audit
reports in 1989-90 revealed the severity of the situation. In reviewing
SVOA's books, the Tribunal de Cuentas (the national public sector
accounting agency) abstained from issuing an opinion, based on the lack of
an auditable base. The Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas
(Government's auditor of Federal and provincial enterprises) issued an
unfavorable opinion after auditing all the IPVs. Its summary report indicated
that the provincial agencies' information systems were insufficient, especially
in their lack of registers and controls to provide adequate data.
1.22 Therefore,in July 1991, the Government agreed with a Bank
supervision mission to not make further applications for disbursements until
major loan covenants were complied with. During these discussions, it was
recognized that, under the existing institutional framework, it would be
extremely difficult to address all the prevailing issues. Accordingly, the
Bank suggested the possibility of restructuring and downsizing the project in
order to reduce the problems to more manageable dimensions, e.g., limiting
its activities to three or more of the better managed provinces, along with
stronger Federal controls. However, the Govermment failed to act concretely
to either comply fully with the Loan conditions or propose an alternative.
Therefore, the Bank concluded that there were not adequate conditions for
implementing the project, and that none were likely to evolve soon.
1.23 The Bank accordingly suggested to the Ministry of Economy that the
Government request cancellation of the Loan, in whose absence actions
would be initiated for formally suspending disbursements. On December 12,
1991, based on the numerous covenants that had not been complied with (ref.
Section m, para. 7), the Bank suspended the Loan. It also informed the
Government that the cancellation of all undisbursed funds would proceed on
January 13, 1992 unless the Bank then received satisfactory evidence of
compliance with the Loan Agreement obligations.
1.24 It required some ten months to conclude these arrangements, initially
delayed at the request of the Minister of Economy, and in response to the



public protestations which resulted from the suspension of disbursements.
On January 13, 1992, the cancellation was postponed for ninety days. On
March 3, 1992, the cancellation was agreed upon in meetings in Argentina.
This decision was confirmed on June 9, 1992, when the Minister of
Economy wrote the Bank to request the cancellation of US$270 million of the
Loan. However, at the time, there was US$15 million outstanding in the
project's special account, which needed to be reimbursed, failing evidence of
disbursements for eligible expenditures. The resolution of this issue took
until November 9, 1992, when the Minister of Economy wrote to confirmn the
respective amounts to be reimbursed to the Bank and cancelled. On
December 2nd, the reimbursements (which increased to US$278,250,880.14
in the final reckoning) were received and the Loan was closed.
Consequently, only US$21.7 million was disbursed, of which 93 percent
went for housing works with the remainder used for technical assistance and
audit services. In this connection, the administrative (non-legal) process of
trying to cancel the Loan showed that the Bank's machinery for these
purposes is inadequate.
F. Lessons Learned From the Implementation Process
1.25 The Bank was never able to make the envisaged impact on the sector.
The operation was unsatisfactory, mainly for the following reasons:
(a)   There was an under-estimation in project design of the
weaknesses of the institutional structure, which the conditions
of the Loan proved inadequate to remedy. However, even if
these conditions had been more rigorous, it is unlikely that
they could have overcome the influences of political
circumstances and the further deterioration of the economy.
(b)   Provincial interest in the project progressively waned,
especially as there proved to be insufficient incentives to
encourage them to comply with the loan conditions. Perhaps
this was because the amount of funds which they could have
received from the loan were relatively small compared to the
magnitude of regular FONAVI resources estimated to be
provided during the project implementation period.
Throughout much of this period moreover, the recurrent bouts
of high inflation eroded the value of FONAVI lending to the
extent that it became financially unattractive. Further, there
were increased provincial fiscal problems at the time, which
also contributed to diminished interest in participating in the
scheme.
(c)   The Federal Government's centralized administrative system
proved unable to govern a substantial number of individual
investments in this large, regionally diverse country. However,
FONAVI's inability to control the IPVs was not a unique



9-
circumstance. Argentina's resurgent federalism, the provinces'
greater financial autonomy after the January 1988
Coparticipation Law, and the progressive decentralization of
most public services to them have stringently limited the
possibilities of successfully implementing national projects,
especially those involving all provinces.
(d) FONAVI's problems and this project experience also demonstrated
that the state had, in many respects, lost its capacity to effectively
direct day-to-day operations, and needed more drastic medicine than
internal management improvement campaigns. They also showed
that the public administration had become increasingly unable to
apply equitable rules for dealing with the diverse favored
beneficiaries of many programs, and how entrenched these groups
had become.
1.26 The project, with the benefit of hindsight, was too ambitious an
undertaking, particularly for the first Bank involvement in a large sector
which is also highly susceptible to political manipulation. The restructuring
of entrenched, highly inefficient Argentine Government institutions in and of
itself would not have been easy in any circumstance. Confining the project
to fewer provinces and project components would have been better. But the
approach taken in designing the project was greatly complicated by the
uncertainty of the economic environment, and the difficulties of assessing
how its conceivable changes would affect the course of the operation.
Unfortunately, the risks of launching this project eventually proved greater
than the possibilities of its success.
1.27 In this connection incidentally, it bears noting that, during project
preparation, the Bank sought to obtain agreement that the ultimate sector
policy objective should be to get the Government out of the business of
building houses, to be achieved by stimulating the development of a self-
sustaining finance system based on voluntary savings. The project
experience in fact demonstrated that direct mortgage lending operations are
exceedingly difficult for a government agency to administer, particularly
given the pressures for dubious subsidies, uneconomic cost recovery
provisions and inadequate savings mobilization. Prior to negotiations
however, the Bank accepted that the Government Policy Letter should not
include a definite timetable for public sector disengagement from direct
construction. The Letter instead conditioned the transfer of responsibility to
the private sector on the emergence of sufficient stability in the financial
system to permit such financing. In retrospect, the disappointing experience
of the project confirms the view that, to the extent possible, Government's
role in the housing sector should be kept less operational and restricted to
enabling and regulating the market, while also providing justifiable subsidies
through direct budget support. However, subsequent developments in the
country confirm the validity of the Argentine authorities' opinions then that i



- 10 -
precise deadline for phasing out public housing financing needed to await
even more fundamental financial sector reforns.
1.28  A general lesson from this experience is that sector reform projects
can be undone by the inconsistencies between pursuing rapid radical changes
in policies and operating methods while seeking simultaneously to meet
unmet, urgent social needs.
G. Project Results and Sustainability
1.29  None of the project objectives were achieved.
H. Bank Perfornance
1.30 The Bank's work was mainly flawed in the design of the project for
the reasons indicated above, as well as in replicating the "early generation"
of urban projects. As a result, the project had too many components and
implementing agencies, and excessively weak coordination arrangements for
the nature of Argentina's problem. In addition, the project's targets were
over-ambitious. After Loan approval in late 1988, there were semi-annual
supervision missions throughout 1989-91, which consumed almost 23 staff
weeks of Bank resources p.a. on average, followed by the clean-up work in
FY92. In all, 87.2 staff weeks were spent on supervision. In this period,
partly because of changes in organizational responsibilities within LA4, three
different task managers were responsible. During supervision, the Bank
could have been more persistent at the initial stages but the turnover in task
managers does not appear to have been a significant factor.
I. Borrower Performance
1.31 The Government's advocacy of the project and commitment to achieve
its objectives implied its agreement with the planned reforms in sector policy
and operations. Clearly though, it failed to implement them. Little was
done to instill or strengthen all of the project agencies' authorities and
capacities. In particular, the results showed that SVOA was not equipped to
manage the project, and probably should not have been selected for this role.
But once chosen, after SVOA's weak performance became so manifest, the
managerial role might either have been reassigned to an institution with more
of a stake in the project's success--or SVOA better equipped to carry it out.
Most of the project participating agencies in fact never had enough
autonomy. Nor was enough done to define and carry out an effective
division between central and local governments. However, all these
deficiencies pale by comparison with the devastation wrought by the rapidly
deteriorating economic and political conditions in Argentina at the time,
which did not permit the introduction and maintenance of the envisaged
reforms.



- II -
J. Proiect Relationships
1.32 Bank relationships with the Government began well with the mutual
enthusiasm for the project. However, there were problems beginning with
the initial implementation delays, and these continued with the lack of
continuity and commitment by the responsible government agencies. These
were minor factors though compared to problems caused by the inadequate
institutional framework and the inauspicious circumstances for the endeavor.
K. Consulting Services
1.33 The use of consultants in this project to assist SVOA to carry out
routine program functions was necessary to maintain these operations at all,
given the disarray in the public sector at the time. However, the heavy
reliance on them as a short-term solution proved to be weak, if not self-
defeating. As detailed in para. 19 above, the consultants failed to constitute
an adequate talent base and fount of institutional strength. They themselves
in fact became one of the project's main weaknesses, especially in the use of
individual consultants. The Borrower's report on the project (Part II of this
PCR) states that the consultants, rather than helping to nurture and reinforce
the Government staff, became a truly independent entity and progressively
tended to absorb routine tasks from the permanent personnel.
L. Project Documentation and Data
1.34 Documentation for the project is generally very good. In particular,
the Staff Appraisal Report was comprehensive, as well as incisive in its
recognition of the project's immediate and broader risks. During the period
of project execution, there were some problems involving consultants' terms
of references and delays in audit reports.
1.35 This PCR relied mainly on the Staff Appraisal and President's
Reports, the legal documents, aide memoires and supervision reports. It was
facilitated by the Government's views on the project experience. Project
databases provided information for the preparation of Part I and Part m.



- 12-
PART II: REVIEW OF THIE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
A. Background
2.1   The First Housing Sector Project (Loan 2992-AR) was instituted, in
part, by representatives of the democratic government that came into power
in 1983. The objectives of this loan were to address the many structural
deficiencies in the housing sector and to implement the conditions of Law
No. 21.581. This law established the Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda
[National Housing Fund] (FONAVI), which had a mandate to build housing
for poor populations in jurisdictions throughout Argentina.
2.2   The definition of legal and administrative arrangements were initiated
during the end of 1983, and were elaborated in a 1987 sectoral study. The
latter diagnosed the operational and administrative shortcomings of the
housing sector which, with UNDP assistance, helped establish a project
design. The Loan Agreement was approved by the Bank in October 1988
and was signed by the Government of Argentina and the Bank on November
29, 1988. The Loan became effective on March 3, 1989.
B. Obiectives
2.3   The main objectives of this loan was the reorganization of the housing
sector. The Loan attempted to factor in political factors, program
management, contractual agreements, utilization of technology, application of
standards, cost structures, implementation schedules, dispute resolution
mechanisms, and returns on investment. Its goals were to increase produc-
tivity and the number,of permanent dwellings, and to reduce government
subsidies.
C. Project Developments
2.4   The problems that surfaced during the implementation of the Project
were due to underestimations of the weaknesses and operating difficulties of
government organizations (The Housing Secretariat and Provincial
Institutions). Compliance with the basic conditions of the Loan Agreement
(which FONAVI consented to, acting as a representative of the Provincial
and Municipal Governments) was not achieved due to these jurisdictions'
difficulties in revenue collection. This situation was due, in part, to the
deterioration of economic conditions in Argentina, which impacted on project
operations. Other factors were the continuous change of leadership of
government organizations, the frequent rotation of consultants, and the
inability of technical assistance programs to strengthen institutional
structures. This last menioned difficulty was related to the suspension of
disbursements in July 1991 and the request by the National Government to
cancel the Loan in March 1992. Thus, investments from the available Loan



- 13-
funds were extremely limited. As a result of these varied problems, the
objectives of this Loan were not realized.
Lessons Learned
2.5   Project operations were not successful due to the following reasons:
(a)   Underestimation of the weaknesses of the institutional
structures;
(b)   Lack of foresight before (and during) the deterioration of
economic conditions and the erosion of revenues caused by
inflationary and hyperinflationary pressures;
(c)   Decreasing interest and participation in the Project and the lack
of compliance with the stipulated conditions by the Provincial
governments. Compared to FONAVI's available funds, the
Loan funds were severely limited; and
(d)   Difficulties in implementing the necessary reforms in the
sector. Radical changes were needed in the political and
operational models in response to urgent social demands and
the need to ameliorate the housing deficit.
Evaluation of Bank Performance
2.6   Successive Bank technical assistance and supervisory missions helped
to formulate a reasonable project design. Nonetheless, the latter had some
flaws and burdensome requirements that generated some criticism during the
implementation period. Problems became apparent then emanating from
excessively rigorous technical, social, financial and administrative guidelines.
These guidelines did not take into account the difficulties of a federal
government system under which the 24 provincial governments often operate
at cross-purposes with national priorities. In addition, some proposals tended
to require corrections and adjustments to the Loan Agreement in order to
improve the operational viability of the project. The Bank was unreceptive
to these changes, primarily because of the constant change of Government
managing authorities.
2.7   Bank Missions did generate the following positive results: the
improvement of bidding and contract awarding procedures for public
housing; the standardization of bidding and contract awarding procedures;
improvements in the pricing system; and a shortening of the implementation
period. These outcomes impacted favorably on the Housing Fund's other
operations.



- 14 -
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
2.8   It is evident that serious defects existed in the implementation of the
project's operations, which were due to intrinsic institutional deficiencies that
were overlooked in the project's design. Some difficulties arose in
connection with the Housing Secretariat's supervisory role. Also, the
discontinuation of operations by the Housing Fund did not prevent the
jurisdictions from continuing to provide 'transition" programs (contrary to
the provisions under the terms of the Loan Agreement).
2.9   Numerous changes in the composition of the Project Advisory
Committee did not allow it to perform its envisaged role. Also, uncertainty
as to the appointment of the Project Financial Manager affected the
operations of the National and Provincial administering agencies, as noted in
the audits of the Tribunal de Cuentas de la Naci6n (The National Accounts
Court) and the Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas (The General
Union of Public Enterprises). These difficulties were exacerbated by the
deterioration of economic conditions in Argentina which made it harder to
implement and deepen the proposed reforms in the housing sector.



- 15 -
Part III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans
N.A.
2.    Proiect T-metable
-  Identification     12/03/87
-  Preparation        11/03/87
-  Appraisal Mission   04/18/88
-  Loan Negotiations   08/09/88
-  Board Approval     10/27/88
-  Loan Effectiveness  03/03/89
-  Loan Cancellation   06/24/92
-  Loan Closing       06/30/93
3.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Appraisal Estimate       300,000
Actual                    21,749
Actual as % of Estimate     7.3
Date of Final Disbursement  03/07/91
4.    Proiect Implementation
Appraisal      Actual
Indicators
N.A.
5.    Proiect Bank Financinz
US$
(1)   Civil Works              20,119,715.16
(2)   Improvement Loans           413,411.86
(3)   Auditing                    299,484.12
(4)   Technical Assistance        940,284.00
(5)   Currency adjustment          (23.775.28)
Total                     21,749,119.86



- 16 -
6.    Proiecr Results
N.A.
A. Direct Benefits
N.A.
B. Economic Imract
N.A.
C. Financial Impact
N.A.
D. Studies
None.
7.    Status of Major Loan Covenants
LOAN
AGREEMENT
SECTION      DESCRIPTION               COMMENTS
3.05    Completion date for            Could not be carried out
studies under Part C (ii)       before the members of
of the project; six months     the Advisory Committe
from the Effective Date in      were hired. They had
respect of Provinces and        not been hired.
within twelve months from
the Effective Date in
respect of agreed number
of municipalities.
3.06(b) Section 3.06(a) asked for      Although signed, the
SVOA to enter into tax          agreements were not
compliance agreements with      being monitored or
Provinces and with              enforced by SVOA.
municipalities. Paragraph
(b) of such Section
requests SVOA to exercise
its rights under each such
agreement so as to protect
the interest of the
Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes
of the loan.



- 17-
3.08   Aggregate amount payable        This issue could only be
under Transitional Loans       resolved after the
which were in arrears should   starus of FONAVI's
not in FY 89 and FY 90          portfolio had been
exceed 40% of Transitional      determined by means of
Loans portfolio of all         the studies referred
IPVs. In FY 91 and all         to in section 3.04(a)
FYs thereafter should not       of the Loan Agreement,
exceed 35 %.                    that could be
carried out before the
members of the
Advisory Committee were
hired.
4.01(a) Maintenance of separate records   Not in compliance.
and accounts (for SVOA, IPVs,
and Financial Agents).
4.01(c) Keep proper records on SOEs     Not in compliance.
and allow Bank access to them.
5.01(a) Carry out FONAVI operations in  Members of the
accordance with sound           Advisory Committee
practices under the             had not yet been
supervision of qualified staff  hired. Performance
in adequate numbers.            unsatisfactory.
5.03(a) Appointment of four senior      Not done.
staff, with qualifications
and experience acceptable
to Bank, for the
organizational units of
SVOA implementing the
project.
5.03(b) Secondment of IPVs staff        Not done.
to SVOA, from time to time
and as necessarv for
purposes of efficiently
carrying out the project.
5.04    Establishmnent and              Members of the
maintenance of Advisory         Advisory Committee
Committee, to assist SVOA       had not yet been
in monitoring the project       hired.
and to coordinate its
activities of a technical
nature among the Borrower,
the Bank. IPVs and the
consultants referred to in
Section 3.04(c). Such



- 18-
Committee would consist of
four consultants, with
qualifications, experience
and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank,
and at least three other
members, with
qualifications and
experience acceptable to
the Bank.
8.  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input
Proiect Cvcle                          Total Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                                  39.6
Appraisal through Board Approval                   33.2
Board Approval through Effectiveness               5.4
Supervision
FY89                              21.3
FY90                              20.1
FY91                              27.3
FY92                              18.5
Sub Total Supervision                              87.2
TOTAL                                     165.4
B. Missions
Stage of        Date            Number of        Number of
Project Cycle                      Days            Persons
Pre-appraisal     02/16/88          22              5
Appraisal        04/29/88
Supervision       11/30/88          14              3
07/31/89           5              2
05/02/90           6              2
09/03/90          11              3
02/25/91          11              2
07/21/91          10              2
09/30/92           5               1
09/06/93           4               1



- 19-
C. Costs
Proiect Cycle                     Total $ Cost of Staff Inputs
Through Appraisal                              76,150.80
Appraisal through Board Approval               63,843.60
Board Approval through Effectiveness           10,384.20
Supervision                                    167,685.60



