Page  1
November 1, 1990
Mr. Erman Gonzalez
Minister of Economy
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
           Re:
ARGENTINA - Loan No. 2997-AR
(First Housing Sector Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the "Loan Agreement"), dated November 29, 
1988 between the Argentine Republic and International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), as amended.
We are pleased to advise you that the Bank agrees to your requests to redefine 
the indexing system for the maximum income of a Beneficiary and for the maximum amount 
of an Improvement Loan, to include a definition of "INDEC", to amend the Bank's 
financing share in respect of civil works during the first and latter half of 
disbursements in respect of such expenditures and to have the Loan Agreement reflect 
the reclassification of Secretaria de Vivienda y Ordenamiento Ambiental as 
Subsecretaria de Vivienda y Ordenamiento. The Bank, therefore, proposes the following 
amendments to the Loan Agreement:
1.
References to SVOA
 
      All references to "SVOA" throughout the Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be 
references to Subsecretaria de Vivienda y Ordenamiento Ambiental, the Subsecretaria of 
Housing and Environmental Management of the Borrower, instead of Secretaria de 
Vivienda y Ordenamiento Ambiental, the Secretariat of Housing and Environmental 
Management of the Borrower.
2.    Section 1.02
(a) Paragraph (d) is hereby deleted and the following new paragraph (d) 
substituted therefor:
"(d) "Beneficiary" means any person who is the borrower in respect of a 
Housing Loan or an Improvement Loan (as such terms are hereinafter defined) 
whose monthly income, when added to all other income of his or her household, 
shall 
not exceed $280 equivalent, calculated applying the exchange rate of $1 
- 650 
Australes representing the rate applicable on October 31, 1989.  Such 
maximum amount is subject to adjustment from time to time in accordance with 
INDEC (as hereinafter defined)."
(b)   Paragraph (k) is hereby deleted and the following new paragraph (k) 
substituted therefor:
"(k) "Improvement Loan" means a loan, made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower through SVOA utilizing a Financial Agent (as hereinafter defined) to 
a 
Beneficiary for purposes of financing the improvement of a Housing Unit, in 
an 
amount not in excess of the equivalent of $1,800, calculated applying the 
exchange rate of $1 - 650 Australes representing the rate applicable on 
October 31, 1989.  Such maximum amount is subject to adjustment from time to 
time in accordance with INDEC (as hereinafter defined)."
(c)   The word "and" following the semicolon after paragraph (s) is hereby 
deleted, a semicolon is hereby substituted for the period at the end of paragraph (t), 
and the word "and" is hereby added following such semicolon.
(d)   The following new paragraph (u) is hereby added:
(u)   "INDEC" means Indice del Costo de la Construccion, published by 
Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos of the Borrower."
3.
Section 5.02
Page  2
Section 5.02 is hereby amended by deleting two references to "10 percent" 
therein and substituting "20 percent" therefor.
4.
Schedule I
 
Category (1) in the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby deleted and the 
following substituted therefor:
                        Amount of the              % of
                    Loan Allocated (Expressed  Expenditures
      Category       in Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works under       250,000,000       70%, until the
      Part A of the Project                     aggregate
                                                amount of
                                                withdrawals from
                                                the Loan Account
                                                in respect of this
                                                Category 1 shall
                                                have reached the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $125,000,000,
                                                and 30%
                                                thereafter.
The above amendments shall become effective on the date the Bank receives a 
duplicate copy of this letter, duly countersigned by the Argentine Republic, and the 
percentages of the expenditures to be financed, specified paragraph 5 above, shall 
apply in respect of payments made for expenditures after such date. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the 
attached confirmation copy of this letter and returning the same to the undersigned.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Pieter Bottelier
Director
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Antonio Erman Gonzalez
Authorized Representative
Date:
