Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7011-BEL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 23, 1988
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Whis document bas a resticted dsbuion and may be used by reiPits  only In the perfomac of
their official dues Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed   Wh dd Bou td km



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Belize Dollar (B$)
US$1.00 - B$ 2.00
US$0.50 - 8$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mile    - 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre    - 0.405 hectares (ha)
1 sq mile - 259 ha
1 sq km   - 247 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCB   -  Banana Control Board
BCF   -  Belize Credit Facility
BGA   -  Banana Growers' Association
CAB   -  Cocoa Advisory Board
CBB   -  Central Bank of Belize
CDB   -  Caribbean Development Bank
CDC   -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
CGA   -  Citrus Growers' Association
DFC   -  Development Fincnce Corporation
Pl    -  Financial Intermediary
MA    - Ministry of Agriculture
MED   - Ministry of Economic Development
MNR   - Ministry of Natural Resources
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.       LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY    .................... .   1
II.      THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ........     .     . ....        . .   3
Development Potential ....   ............... ...............    3
Role of Agriculture in the Economy           .... ..    3
Institutional Framework ...................................    4
Agricultural Credit ....... . ................... .  ..............   5
Development Finance Corporation (DFC) .....................   5
Government Policies and Development Strategy .    .........    8
Role of the Bank in Belize               . ........8..... 
III.     THE PROJECT    ......................... ... ........... . .......   8
Project Rationale and Objectives ..........................    9
Project Description ....           ..... ..............        9
Detailed Features. . .......... .........  ....... ............   9
Strengthening of the Financial System ..................     9
Agricultural Export Development   . .....  ....... .        12
Project Cost ..    ..... .. ...... .............   14
Project Financing ...... ....... ........ ........   15
Procurement   . .......... ..... ....... ...... . .. .   15
Disbursemuent .....................       ................ .   16
Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions    .......... 16
Accounts and Audit ............ .. ....... ...... .  ........   18
Implementation .................................................... 19
Environmental Impact ....... ..      ..................... .  20
Project Benefits, Justification and Risks .................  20
IV.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION          .      .       22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Belize during September 1987. The mission comprised Mr. V. Ferrer
(Mission Leader), Mrs. De Leon Herlihy (Financial Analyst), and
Messrs. Adkins, Jarquin and Tuke (consultants).
This document has a restexcted distribution and may be used by reipients- only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Oank authorization.



- il 
Table of Contents (cont)
Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Agricultural Credit in Belize and the Development
Finance Corporation (DFC) ..............................   25
Annex 2:  Crop Development Component ........................... ....   54
Annex 3:  Statistical Annex
Table  1:  Summary of Project Cost .......................   67
Table  2:  Project Financing           ............       .      68
Table 3: Disbursement Schedule                   . .    69
Table  4:  Phasing of Agricultural Production         . .        70
Table  5:  Agricultural Credit Component - Total
Costs, Financing and Origin          .    ..    71
Table  6:  Agricultural Credit Component -
Investment and Working Capital Costs   ..    72
Table  7:  Institutional Development Summary - by
Item Financed ..............               .       73
Table  8:  Institutional Development  - Investments
Costs by Item Firanced             . .    74
Table  9: Institutional Development  - Recurrent
Costs by Item Financed            . .    75
Table 10: Institutional Development Summary - by
Entity ......................................   76
Table 11: Institutional Development  - by Entity    ..    77
Table 12: Equipment Requirements - Ministry of
Agriculture                  . .    78
Table 13: Staffing, Vehicles and Equipment
Requirements (Ministry of Natural
Resources) ........                     .          79
Annex 4: Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .......                 .............         .   81
Map: IBRD No 20836.



BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:      Belize
Beneficiaries:   (i)    Producers of agricultural export commodities and
agroindustrial enterprises (through Financial
Intermediaries-PIs);
(ii)    Development Finance Corporation (DFC);
(iii)    Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources;
and
(iv)    Banana Control Board (BCB)
Loan Amount:   US$7.8 million.
Terms:         17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending      The Borrower would make US$7.1 million of the loan amount
Terms:     available to FIs at an interest rate equal to the World
Bank's lending rate plus a 1Z fee for the Borrower's
assumption of the foreign exchange risk. FIs would on-lend
to final beneficiaries with a spread of not more than 6Z and
terms not to exceed 15 years with 4 years grace.
Project        The principal objective of the proposed project would be to
Description:   expand and promote diversification of Belize's exports and
improve its balance of payments. The project would have two
components: (a) strengthening of the agricultural financial
system, primarily through the establishment of an apex
rediscount facility managed by the CBB available to private
and public financial intermediaries, and through
institutional strengthening of the Development Finance
Corporation (DFC); and (b) development of agricultural
exports, principally bananas, cocoa, citrus and cultured
shrimp, through provision of a line of credit, and
strengthening institutions providing support services, for
export crop production. Institutional strengthening would
be achieved through the provision of some 6.5 man-years of
consultants, 4.5 man-years of training, equipment and
vehicles, together with 12 additional staff. In addition,
the project would seek improvements to the policy
environment for private investment in agriculture. The main
project benefits would be the diversification and expansion
of agricultural exports, and consequent improvement in the



- 2 -
belance of payments; improved banking services for farmers
and strengthening the financial condition of DFC in its role
as financial intermediary; and attraction of private
investment to develop Belize's agricultural export
potential. A main project risk relates to possible changes
in market access and prices; the project has been flexibly
designed to accommodate shifts in market conditions and
development of new agricultural export market opportunities.
The main implementation risks concern DFC's capacity to
implement the changes needed to improve the quality of its
portfolio and deliver more timely credit, and the degree of
participation of private financial intermediaries in the
apex facility. The improved banking procedures,
establishment of the BCF and technical assistance, would all
support DFC in achieving its institutional goals.
Proiect                                     Local      Foreign       Total
Costs                                            (US$ million)--------
Agricultural Export Development        4.4         5.6         10.l
Institutional Development
Consultants                         -           0.6         0.6
Training                            -           0.2         0.2
Vehicles and Equipment              0.1         0.3          0.4
Staff, Administrative, and
Operation and Maintenance
Costs                             0.6         0.2         0.8
Base Cost (end 1987 prices)            5.1         6.9        12.0
Physical contingencies              -           0.1         0.1
Price contingencies                 0.1         0.1         0.2
Total Project Cost                     5.2         7.1        12.3
Financing Plan:
Government                             0.8         -            0.8
Credit Beneficiaries                   2.3         -           2.3
Financial Intermediaries               0.7         -            0.7
Cofinancing Entitiesa/                 -           0.7         0.7
Bank                                   1.4         6.4         7.8
Total               5.2         7.1         12.3
a/ For technical assistances Japan Grant Facility (US$0.5 million
equivalent); United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
(US$0.1 million equivalent); FAO (US$0.1 million equivalent).



-3-
Estimated Disbursementes      -- -----Bank Fiscal Year-----------
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1P94  1995
----------------tUS$ million)-------------
Annual                       1.4   1.6   1.6   1.3   1.0   0.8   0.1
Cumulative                   1.4   3.0   4.6   5.9   6.9   7.7   7.8
Economic Rate of Return:    282.
Map: IBRD No. 20836.
11. THE AGRIC=LTURAL SECTOR
Development Potential
2.01     Belize, with a land area of 23,000 sq kilometers, is located just
south of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula on the Caribbean coast of Central
America. With a population of about 200,000, it is one of the least
densely populated countries in the world (9 persons per sq kilometer, or
28 acres per capita). Of the nearly 2.4 million acres with potential for
agriculture (about 402 of the total land area), only about 370,000 acres
are currently under production (152).
2.02     With this abundance of agricultural land, Belize's development
potential lies principally in land-intensive activities or those that are
linked to them--agriculture, mariculture, and agro-industry. Agricultural
labor is readily available; needs not met by Belize's population are met by
m,grants from neighboring countries, but wage rates are relatively high for
the region due to Belize's status as a way station in the broader North
American market for agricultural labor. Belize also has a highly literate
urban labor force and significant institutional resources, particularly a
history of political stability, before and after independence in 1981, and
a basic policy of encouraging private sector development. Close proximity
to North American markets, compared to other producers of tropical produce,
is a further advantage; it allows Belize relatively inexpensive air cargo
service for perishable items.
2.03     Belize's land, labor, institutional and locational advantages are
not matched by adequate domestic savings and entrepreneurial resources.
However, in recognition of this shortfall, the Government seeks to build up
infrastructure through foreign financing of its public investment program
and to access foreign private savings and entrepreneurial resources by
generous treatment of foreign direct investment. It also maintains the
Development Finance Corporation (DFC) as a mechanism for channeling
medium- and long-term credit from foreign donor sources to Belizean
agricultural, industrial and tourism activities.
Role of Aariculture in the Economy
2.04     Agriculture and agroprocessing constitute the key sector of the
Belizean economy. Agriculture including forestry and fisheries directly



-4-
accounts for 20Z of the GDP and 382 of employment. Agroprocessing of
sugar, citrus, cocoa and other primary products is also an important
activity, providing a significant part of the 11 of GDP constituted by
manufacturing value added. Sugar, although a declining subsector, still
accounted for about 50S of agr'.cultural value added in 1986, and citrus
fruit and concentrate for another 20Z. The country also produced
significant amounts of bananas, corn, rice, red kidney beans, honey, winter
vegetables, chicken, beef, pork and milk, which together accounted for the
remaining 30S of agricultural value added. Processed and unprc-:essed
agricultural products are the country's principal source of foreign
exchang3i, with the agricultural sector, including fishery and forestry,
providing 81i of domestic merchandise exports in 1986.
2.05     Agriculture was no exception to the mediocre performance of the
economy as a whole during the ;980-84 period. In most subsectors,
production in 1984 was below or little changed from the 1980 level.
Despite tight macroeconomic conditions in 1984 and 1985, however,
agricultural recovery started in most subsectors other than sugarcane, and
there has been a strong resurgence in 1986 and 1987, especially in export
crops other than sugar. While sugarcane tonnage decreased by 16S between
1984 and 1986, the percentage increase in production for other crops has
been as follows: oranges (13!), grapefruit (108!), cocoa (442), corn (18S),
red kidney beans (41!) and bananas (212). Nevertheless, the decline in
sugar was enough to cancel out progress in the other subsectors, and value
added in agriculture at the end of the period was still 2.9! below the
level of 1980.
2.06     Export Prospects.  In the medium run, the prospects are for
agricultural exports to continue to provide the bulk of foreign exchange
for Belize. The prospects for sugar, Belize's principal export, after
years of secular decline, are somewhat more optimistic due to the recent
contract signed with Petrojam Ltd. of Jamaica for the production of sugar-
base ethanol. In tourism, at least a moderate increase seems likely, but
manufacturing exports, aside from agroprocessed products, are not expected
to expand. Based on tLese considerations, a medium-term forecast for net
foreign exchange growth of 5! p.a. should be considered fairly optimistic.
Institutional Framework
2.07     Various agencies are involved in activities that affect
agricultural development. The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) has overall
responsibility for agriculture. The Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR),
recently separated from MA, is responsible for land survey, valuation,
leasing, titling and allocation. The Ministry of Economic Development
(MED), recently separated from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Economic
Development, deals with long-term planning, public sector investment
coordination and investment concessions review. The Ministry of Commerce,
Industry, and Cooperatives handles price controls, and import and export
licensing. The Ministry of Finance, through Customs, gives duty exemptions
for fertilizer and farm equipment, and together with the Central Bank of
Belize, deals with general economic management and Government finance. The
role of DFC, the principal institution in the public sector providing
development credit for agriculture, is discussed below (para. 2.10). For
the major crops, sugar, bananas and citrus, growers' associations were



- 5 -
established to provide services such as research and extension for their
members, while crop control boards oversee the growing, processing and
marketing of individual crops. Finally, cooperatives play an important
role in the storage, Landling and marketing of produce on behalf of their
members.
Agricultural Credit
2.08     In 1986, total credit outstanding from institutional sources
totalled US$93.1 million equivalent. The two main sources of funds are the
four commercial banks (two of which are branches of foreign banks) and DFC.
In 1981, commercial banks accounted for 75? of all outstanding credit to
the private sector, while in 1986 this share was down to 68?, with a growth
rate of about 3? p.a. over the period. DFC on the other hand, has
increased its share in total credit outstanding from about 162 to 192 in
the same period (a growth rate of about 10? p.a.).   The balance of credit
is provided by credit unions. Agricultural credit from institutional
sources has remained around US$16 million equivalent over the past 5 years
(172 of total credit in 1986, a decline in relative terms from the 21? of
1982). While the participation of commercial banks in total lending and
lending for agriculture has declined in relative terms particularly since
the decline in sugar prices, DFC has shown significant increases. DFC's
new agricultural loans amounted to 59Z of total DFC loans in 1986, up from
35Z in 1977 (but down from the peak year of 1983 when agricultural loans
represented 78? of total new loans). DFC's agricultural loans grew by
7.3Z p.a. over 1977-1986, but with considerable yearly variations
reflecting the availability of credit lines targeted by external
donors/lenders to the sector (one of the issues to be addressed under the
proposed project, para. 3.29) and variations in lending for sugar and,
increasingly, citrus.
2.09     The agricultural sector generally has good access to credit.
However, there are differences in access to formal credit, as smaller units
tend to obtain credit from informal sources. It is estimated that 30-402
of this group have regular access to formal credit, though many of these
are associated with the sugar industry.
Development Finance Corporation (DFC)
2.10     DFC was founded in 1963 as a mixed enterprise to supply financing
for development projects in general. In 1973, the Government bought out
the minority shareholders and DFC has experienced very rapid growth in its
lending since then (para. 2.08). This expansion has been totally based on
concessionary funds provided by donors, principally the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) and the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC).
At this point, DFC does not have other sources of funds such as deposits
from the public. Besides project lending, DFC also carries out certsit
non-financial tasks on behalf of the Government, such as administrgtion of
the student loan program. The Government is the main source of equity to
DFC in the form of share subscriptions. DFC has a debt/equity ratio of 4:1
(although the book value of DFC's capital does not reflect some of the
underlying weaknesses of the institution). Under the DFC (Amendment) Act,
1986, DFC's authorized share capital was increased from B$ 4 million to



-6
B$ 10 million, and the Government has expressed interest in increasing its
capital subscription by B$ 4 million from the current level of
B$ 3.4 million.
2.11     DFC plays a critical role in the agricultural sector in Belize.
It is essentially the only financial intermediary that provides term credit
for small and medium farmers in Belize. It has also been in the forefront
of the efforts to diversify agricultural production and exports in the
country away from sugar by providing term credit for new crops, which the
coumercial banks have been initially reluctant to finance. DFC is
relatively well managed and it has further strengthened its managerial
capabilities in the past year. It has a small but dedicated staff and its
administrative costs have been kept reasonably in line and do not pose
serious pressure on its spread. DFC with the assistance of CDB-financed
consultants is carrying out a detailed review of staffing, salary levels
and its internal organization aimed to utrengthening these aspects of their
operations (para. 3.08). Further, the financial audits of the institution
have traditionally received unqualified opinions by its independent
auditors. In spite of the progress achieved and the genuine efforts of
DFC's own management, the Government and the CDB to continue to strengthen
the institution, DFC as the paragraphs below outline still faces serious
problems primarily in regard to loan portfol'o management, liquidity and
inefficiency in providing credit services.
2.12     Loan Portfolio.  The loan portfolio constitutes about 70S of DFC's
assets with a book value of B$ 31.8 million (US$15.9 million) as of
December 1986, and 8$ 33.0 million (US$16.5 million) as of September 30,
1987. Audited principal arrears as of September 30, 1987 were 18? of total
portfolio, of which 1OX were arrears 12 months or over. Interest
receivable, amounted to B$ 4.5 million, as of September 30, 1987 equivalent
to 15 months of interest revenues, of which 2? was interest in arrears
12 months or over resulting in total arrears 12 months and over of 12S.
2.13     Earnings.  In recent years, there has been a squeeze on DFC's
financial margins. While accrued interest income has grown at about
17S p.a. over 1978-86, interest expense (the average interest paid on
borrowings) has increased faster (23Z p.a.), reflecting a hardening of
lending terms from donors. DEC has traditionally maintained interest rates
at 122 p.a., which has been highly positive in real terms in the past few
years compared to 14? and overcharged by commercial banks. The loan
agreements for the latest CDC and CDB credit lines do contain floating rate
clauses, but DEC has not yet made interest rates variable. Given the
reasonable levels of DFC's administrative and personnel expenses and
despite the deterioration of net interest margins (from 64? in 1978 to 472
in 1986), margins should still be satisfactory but for the effect of losses
on interest receivable (interest receivable has increased from 8 to 15
months of interest revenues between 1978 and September 1987 and principal
in arrears 12 months or over are 10 of total portfolio. At these levels
it can be assumed that a portion of it will not get paid). While,
according to published figures, DEC managed to show profits until 1983 and
in 1985 (having shown losses in 1984 and 1986 due mainly to higher loan
loss provisions), adjusted figures which take into account non-performing
portfolio assets indicate that DFC is running an accumulated deficit of
nearly B$ 4 million (Annex 1).



2.14     Liquidity.  The analysis of available information suggests that
cash generated from the portfolio will not be sufficient to meet DFC's
needs beyond 1988, with a cash shortfall of about B$ 2 million per year
until 1990 (Annex 1, Table 6). These projections suggest that in the
absence of better loan recovery performance, DFC will face a serious
liquidity crunch and a real possibility of default on its debts, unless new
loans are contracted or its capitalization is increased.
2.15     Functional Constraints.  Despite the strong efforts of DFC's
management in the past year, DFC still has problems in several areas, and
these are manifested in the poor quality of its portfolio and overall level
of efficiency. Many stem from DFC's dependence on foreign funds
administered as separate lines of credit, each with its own lending terms
and conditions, target beneficiaries, and reporting requirements. These
problems are summarized below (for further details, see Annex 1):
(a)  Loan Collec,.ion.  Loans are not properly monitored, and recoveries
of both interest and principal are low (para. 2.12) DFC has
recently introduced a new procedure to improve collections, but
weaknesses--such as unreliable data, diffusion of responsibilities
and unclear roles of the units involved in the collection
process--remain.
(b) Credit Policies and Procedures. DFC does not have centralized
credit policies, but uses instead the directives issued by
individual donors. DFC's loan application and approval process is
lengthy relative to that of commercial banks, and it involves high
transaction costs.
(c) Reporting and Accounting Systems. Management information systems
are fragmented and geared to the needs of external donors (DFC
prepares about 30 different reports annually for its donors), and
they do not provide management with timely information. All
information recording and handling is done manually. There is
insufficient information on collections for production of accurate
cash flow statements. The unpredictable nature of DFC's funding
prevents long-term strategic planning. Planning and budgeting ^re
limited to preparation of a one year forecast of non-financial
operating costs.
(d) Management and Staffing. DFC is relatively well managed but
management's capacity is overstretched under its present
responsibilities and staff constraints. Project officers have no
banking background, poor training and are offered little
encouragement to develop on-the-job skills. Training courses,
mainly sponsored by CDB, are limited in scope and do not pay much
attention to the commercial aspects of banking. There is little
rotation between positions, thereby limiting opportunities for
project officers to broaden their experience.
(e) Risk Management. The risk profile of DFC's loan portfolio is
determined by external donors who identify sectors and activities
eligible for credit.  DFC also bears the foreign exchange risk on
donor funding.



Government Policies and Development Strategy
2.16     The present Government, which assumed office in 1985, extended
Belize's policies of relying on the private sector for the direction and
growth of the economy and of maintaining relatively open borders for
foreign investment and entrepreneurship. Subject to somewhat cumbersome
investment application procedures, foreign and domestic tnvestment is
allowed to compete in export markets with input costs largely determined by
world prices rather than trade taxation and regulation. New enterprises
also receive significant income tax concessions for 1-15 tears. Within
this generally favorable context, there are some import a&kd export
licensing requirements and trade taxes that, while they have minor impact
on the development of agriculture, would be addressed by Government under
the proposed project.
2.17     The official strategy of the Government is to foster the expansion
of diversified esports by promoting private sector initiatives. In its
Five-Year Macroeconomic Plan, 1985-89, the Government has identified
mariculture and citrus as some of the more promising areas of export
development, and also bananas, livestock, cocoa and winter vegetables.
Domestic resource cost analysis of the four main commodities that would be
supported under the proposed project reinforces the Government's judgment
that Belize has significant comparative advantage in shrimp mariculture,
citrus and cocoa, but less in bananas evaluated at world prices; production
of bananas would, nevertheless, be viable for Belize at the preferential
price currently received for fruit sold to the UK as well as at prevailing
world market prices.   The Government would also like to see expansion in
forestry, fishing, tourism and manufacturing. In recognition of the
openness of the Belizean economy, the Government pledges to maintain
liberal foreign exchange policies, positive Government savings, and
appropriate credit policies as macroeconomic supports for the development
process. It envisages continued foreign financing for the bulk of the
public investment program.
Role of the Bank in Belize
2.18     The proposed project would be the first direct involvement by the
Bank in agriculture. The first Bank loan to Belize (Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project, Loan 2273-BEL for US$5.3 million, approved
May 1983) was for the rehabilitation of three road segments, totaling
21 miles, in northern and western Belize. The second Bank loan to Belize
(Power Development Project, Loan 2749-BEL for US$7.5 million, approved
August 1986) is financing part of the Belize Electricity Board's 1987-93
investment program and the stren-thening of its management and technical
capabilities.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01     The proposed project was prepared by a joint World Bank/FAO
mission that visited Belize in February 1987 and was appraised by a Bank
mission in September 1987. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
during May 16-19, 1988. The delegation from Belize was led by
Mr. Keith Arnold, Financial Secretary, Ministry of Finance.



- 9-
Project Rationale and Objectives
3.02     The proposed project supports the Government strategy to realize
the agriculture export growth potential of the country, and forma an
integral part of the Bank's development strategy for the country. The
project addresses in particular: (a) inadequacies in the institutional
framework for providing agricultural credit including inefficiencies in the
credit services, liquidity problems of the DFC, limited participation of
private Banks in lending for the sector, and the lack of term credit; and
(b) weaknesses in the institutional capacity of private and public sector
institutions such as exist in some growers' associations, the BCB and the
Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources. The specific objectives
of the proposed project would be to; (a) expand agricultural exports as a
means to improve the country's balance of payments while reducing the
dependence on sugar; (b) strengthen Belize's agricultural financial system
as a means to stimulate private sector investment in agriculture; and
(c) further improve the policy environment for private investment in
agricultural export activities.
Project Description
3.03     The project would have two components:  (a) strengthening of the
financial system, primarily through the establishment of an apex rediscount
facility managed by CBB and through institutional strengthening of DFC; and
(b) development of agricultural exports, principally bananas, cocoa,
citrus, and cultured shrimp, by providing a line of credit and
strengthening institutions supporting export crop development.
Institutional strengthening, for both credit operations and crop
development, would be achieved through the provision of some 6.5 man-years
of technical assistance, 4 man-years of training, equipment and vehicles,
together with 12 additional staff.
Detailed Features
Strengthening of the Financial System
3.04     The proposed project would seek improvements in the financial
system by establishing a two-tier credit system comprising an apex
rediscount facility managed by CBB and a network of participating public
and private sector financial intermediaries (FIs). The project would also
assist in the institutional strengthening of DFC.
3.05     Two-tier Credit System.  Under the proposed project, the Borrower
has opened an account(s) in the CBB, the Belize Credit Facility, as a
rediscount mechanism to be managed by CBB to provide short-, medium- and
long-term financing through FIs. A portion (US$7.1 million) of the
proposed loan would be used (through the BCF) for financing export-oriented
production activities in the agricultural sector and related supporting
services, including agroindustries. Financing would be provided for new
ventures, and for the expansion and rehabilitation of existing farms.



- 10 -
3.06     The CBB has assigned a manager for the BCF satisfactory to the
Bank and will provide secretarial and accounting support for the operation
of the BCF.  The manager of BCF would report directly to CBB's Governor.
The project would provide one man-year of consultant services (draft terms
of reference are in the Project File) to assist CBB in operating BCF and to
carry out on-the-job training programs which would include short-term
courses. During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that a
consultant for BCF satisfactory to the Bank would be appointed by December
31, 1988 (para. 4.01(f)).
3.07     FIs would comprise DFC, private banks, financial institutions and
credit unions accredited by CBB to participate in the BCF scheme. Since
DFC is at present the only institution lending to small- and medium-sized
farmers on a long-term basis, it is expected to be the major onlender of
funds under the project. The project would, however, allow other FIs to
participate in lending fur agricultural development in Belize by
rediscounting subloans in the BCF on a first come, first served basis.
Promoting the participation of private sector FIs in the BCF scheme would
be an important function of the manager of BCF. Eligible FIs would sign a
participation agreement with the Government, through CBB as the manager of
the BCF which would be a condition of disbursement for each FI other than
DFC (para. 4.03(a)). The signing of the participation agreement between
the Borrower and DFC would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 4.02(a)).
3.08     Institutional Strengthening of DFC.  The proposed project would
include a program of institutional strengthening to expand the capacity and
improve the efficiency of DFC as a channel for credit delivery while
promoting the increased particiuation of private FIs in lending to
agriculture. In this context, the project would seek to place DFC on a
sound financial basis, especially in regard to liquidity and cash
generation focusing particularly on collection of DFC arrears and the
quality of its portfolio. As a first step, DFC has adopted a strategic
plan acceptable to the Government and to the Bank outlining the medium- and
long-term objectives of the institution (see Project File). Further, on
the basis of DFC's audited statements of arrears as of September 30, 1987,
showing arrears 12 months and over of 12.32 (10? principal, 2.32 interest),l/
DFC and the Borrower agreed during negotiations to an action plan and
timetable which would include (para. 4.01(a)):
(a) reduction of arrears of principal and interest over 12 months as a
percentage of outstanding portfolio to 14?, 10?, 6?, 3? and 0? at
the end, respectively, of 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992;
1/ The aging structure of principal in the period Octobe. -December 1987,
has resulted in a worsening of arrears 12 months and over to about 15Z
by December 31, 1987 according to unaudited DFC data (but a slight
overall improvement in total principal arrears from 18? to 16Z). Thus,
the reduction in arrears parameters has been based on the December 1987
data.



- 11 -
(b) annual collection ratios (i.e., total principal and interest
collected during the year as a percentage of total principal and
interest due in the year) of 115?, 1101 and 10OZ, for 1988, 1989
and 1990, respectively. The collection ratio would level off at
95Z from 1991 onwards; and
(c) the recovery in accordance with a yearly schedule satisfactory to
the Bank to be provided by not later than February 15, 1989 of
each individual loan of over US$25,000 equivalent outstanding
which is in arrears as of September 30, 1987.
To reduce the credit risk in the first years of the project, DFC onlending
under the project would be limited to no more than one third of the
US$7.1 million equivalent to be made available by the Bank for credit, of
which no more than US$1.7 million equivalent could be onlent for banana
subloans. The allocation of credit funds to DFC would be reviewed by the
Bank at the end of 1988 and every year thereafter and would be increased on
the basis of DFC'S compliance with the action plan and of actual usage by
the different FIs. BCB woul7d retain sufficient funds from the exports of
banana to repay due principal and interest on banana subloans made by DFC.
To further improve the liquidity situation of DFC and the quality and
performance of the loan portfolio, during negotiations, the Borrower
provided assurances that DFC would carry out the following additional
actions (para. 4.01(a)):
(d) engage by December 31, 1988 two long-term consultants for a total
of 30 man-months to, inter alia, assist DFC in providing on-the-
job training to DFC loan officers, in establishing a loan risk
classification system and an index of loan collection,
satisfactory to the Bank, in developing appropriate credit and
interest rate policies, and in preparing a credit manual
(consultants' draft terms of reference are in the Project File).
To complement the on-the-job training program by the consultants,
12 man-months of local and external training for DFC staff have
been provided under the project. AnaLual training programs would
be submitted to the Bank for approval by March 31 of each year,
starting in 1989;
(e) engage by December 31, 1988 a systems consulting firm for a period
of two months to review the software and hardware needs of DFC to
maintain adequate reporting and accounting systems (draft terms of
reference in Project File);
(f) make available to the Bank by September 30, 1988 the final report
of the CDB-financed consultants presently reviewing staffing,
salary levels and the organization of DFC, together with an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, indicating the measures the
Government and WFC intend to take to implement the recommendations
of the consultants;
(g)  appoint by June 30, 1988 a chief for DFC's Loan Recovery
Department;
(h) adopt by September 30, 1989 and implement promptly thereafter, a
loan risk classification system for its loan portfolio,
4        - _



- 12 -
(i) carry out by December 31, 1989 and furnish to the Bank, a detailed
study to make recommendations on whether to pursue branch
decentralization and resource (savings) mobilization; and
(j) maintain the quality of management of the institution and inform
the Bank of any changes in management.
3.09     During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that by
March 31, 1991, the Borrower would conduct a mid-term review jointly with
the Bank, CBB and DFC to evaluate progress with institutional
strengthening, and to agree on targets and actions for Years 4 and 5 of the
project (para. 4.01(b)).
Agricultural Export Development
3.10     Policy Improvements.  In the general context of Belize's open
economy, there remain some minor import and export licensing requirements
and trade taxes on agricultural commodities and inputs (para. 2.16). These
interventions at present include: (a) a 52 export tax on land-based shrimp
(which is also applied to exports of marine shrimp primarily by foreign
concerns as a means to retain in the country some proceeds and to protect
their natural resources); (b) import license requirements on fertilizer;
and (c) export license requirements on about 12 commodities 2/ which
include citrus and shrimp (the latter to ensure that at least 5X of the
total production or about 20,000 lbs. is destined to the domestic market).
While the distortionary effect of these interventions is small, 3/ the 52
tax on exports of land-based shrimp reduces incentives for this nascent
industry, and the export licensing requirement for citrus is unnecessary at
a time when the Government and the proposed project intend to promote
citrus exports. During negotiations, agreement was reached to eliminate by
December 31, 1988 the export licensing requirements for citrus and to
exempt land-based shrimp production from the 5Z export tax (para. 4.01(c)).
3.11     Export Crop Production.  The project would provide funds totalling
US$10.1 million--of which USS7.1 million (702) would be financed by the
proposed loan, US$2.3 million (232) would be financed by the subloan
beneficiaries and US$0.7 million (7Z) would be the contribution of FIs--to
support the development and expansion of agricultural exports, principally
bananas, citrus, cocoa and shrimp, as discussed below. Credit would,
however, also be available for other financially and technically viable
export crops with good market prospects (except for sugar, which would
2/ Primarily to control illegal reexports of luxury consumptive items
(whiskey, cigarettes) or to protect natural resources.
3/  Fertilizer for instance is produced by a domestic mixing plant with
satisfactory quality and at prices competitive with international
levels--except in relation to illegal fertilizer exports from Mexico in
the border areas, since fertilizer production is heavily subsidized in
Mexico for domestic consumption. Furthermore, practically all the
important commodity associations in Belize (citrus, banana and sugar)
are importing fertilizer directly without any difficulty or delays.
There are no plans to expand the operation of the mixing plant.



- 13 -
require prior Bank approval). In order not to limit unduly the number of
project beneficiaries, maximum individual investments have been
established (para. 3.31). These limits could, however, be modified during
project implementation, subject to the approval of the Bank, according to
market and production cost developments.
3.12     Bananas.  Under the project, about 1,200 acres would be developed
for banana production on three blocks of about 400 acres each. Individual
farmers or farmer groups would own and operate farms of up to 60 acres. An
estimated 40 acres per block would be required for infrastructure
consisting of access and farm roads, irrigation systems, loading and
storage areas, cable systems and packing plants. The cost of common
facilities would be included in the subloan requests of individual farmers.
Other items to be financed would include input supplies such as fertilizer
and chemicals for disease control, a truck for each farm, and small tools
and equipment. Farmers would contribute at least 152 of the cost of
development, with the balance provided through credit.
3.13     Citrus.  Under the project, about 1,000 acres of citrus would be
developed by medium- and small-scale farmers with farms of up to 50 acres.
Items to be financed under the project would include land clearance and
preparation, construction of roads, and supply of inputs such as seedlings,
fertilizers and herbicides, and tools and equipment. Farmers would
contribute at least 252 of the development cost, mainly in the form of
labor.
3.14     Cocoa. Under the project, about 1,000 acres of cocoa would be
developed by medium- and small-scale farmers with farms of up to 50 acres
(most farms are expected to be about 5 acres). Land surveying and titling
would be expedited (para. 3.19) so that farmers can secure land titles and
become eligible for credit. The major items to be financed under the
project would be seedlings, inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides and
herbicides, and simple tools and equipment for pruning and harvesting the
crop. Farmers would contribute at least 25? of the development cost. It
is expected, however, that because most cocoa farms would be established by
small-scale farmers, mainly indigenous indians, such farmers would
contribute up to about 50? of the development costs, mainly in the form of
labor.  The small volume of cocoa production under the project assures that
the component will not affect international markets.
3.15     Shrimp.  Under the project, about 200 acres of shrimp farms would
be developed by medium-scale entrepreneurs, who would each develop
outgrower ponds of up to 20 acres in total. Infrastructure to be financed
would include access roads, grow-out ponds, and the canals, pumps and
reservoirs needed to connect the ponds with the sea. Entrepreneurs would
contribute at least 20? of the development cost. Given the early stage of
development of the shrimp industry, demand for shrimp production subloans
is expected to be slow in project years 1 and 2, but could pick up rapidly
if the current operations continue to have good harvests. (Currently the
most advanced operation, with some 100 acres, has harvested 2 ponds of
20 acres each and is expected to achieve reasonably good yields of
500 lb/acre in its third pond).
3.16     Institutional Strengthening.  The project would strengthen the
capacity of key institutions responsible for implementing export crop



- 14 -
development activities, i.e. the Banana Control Board (BCB) and departments
within MNR and MA. Extension services for citrus are already being
provided by the Citrus Growers' Association (CGA), which is financed by a
cess on produce. The project would provide a total of 12 additional full-
time staff, 6.5 man-years of consultants, 4 man-years of training, as well
as vehicles and equipment (see Annex 3, Tables 8 and 9).
3.17     BCB is responsible for banana development, the component which is
expected to receive the bulk of credit under the project. BCB has hired a
General Manager, satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, the
Borrower agreed to appoint by December 31, 1988, a Project Manager,
satisfactory to the Bank, with strong agroengineering background to provide
additional technical support (4.01 (d)). It was further agreed during
negotiations that the Borrower would maintain a General Manager and a
Project Manager for banana development satisfactory to the Bank for the
life of the project (para. 4.01 (d)). BCB would also be provided with four
trucks and laboratory equipment. Four trucks and laboratory equipment
would be provided under the project for the banana development component.
3.18     The MA would be strengthened to provide extension services for
growers of cocoa primarily in the Toledo District Office in Punta Gorda.
Four additional extension agents would be provided, as well as 2 vehicles
and 4 motorcycles to facilitate their work in the field and extension
equipment such as audiovisual aids and small tools. The project would also
provide 2 man-years of consultant services to assist with project
implementation and on-the-job training of staff and farmers. In addition,
funds would be provided for a three-year degree program in treecrops for
staff of MA. The Borrower provided assurances during negotiations that the
annual training programs on cocoa and shrimp for MA staff would be
submitted to the Bank for approval by March of each year starting in 1989
(para. 4.01(f)).
3.19     MNR's Toledo district office would be strengthened to allow it to
carry out, in a timely manner, the land surveys and titling (lease fiat)
for cocoa farmers. Additional part-time workers would be provided to
expedite the surveying of 1,000 acres of land for cocoa production. The
office would also be provided with a truck, a four-wheel drive vehicle and
surveying equipment.
3.20     Finally, the Fisheries Department of MA would be strengthened to
enable it to provide extension services to shrimp farmers. The department
would be provided with four additional staff for shrimp farming development
and extension work. Six months of overseas training in commercial shrimp
operations in South and Central America would be provided for two staff.
The project would provide one man-year of consultant services in
aquaculture to assist with training and extension work. The project would
also provide two four-wheel drive vehicles for use by extension workers.
Project Cost
3.21     Total project costs, including US$10 million for agricultural
credit, are estimated at about US$12.3 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of US$7.1 million, or 58Z (Annex 3, Table 1). The cost
of the institutional development component (US$2.0 million) was calculated



- 15 -
using end-1987 prices and includes physical contingencies of 102 on
investment costs and 5Z on recurrent costs. Expected price increases over
the implementation period were computed using the Bank's projections for
international inflation of 5.62 in 1988, 5.42 in 1989, -0.3Z in 1990 and
1.32 p.a. over 1991-1992. Physical and price contingencies total
US$0.3 million.
Project Financing
3.22     The proposed Bank loan of US$7.8 million would finance 64Z of
total project costs. The balance of project costs would be financed by
credit recipients (US$2.3 mi'llion equivalent, or 19Z), financial
intermediaries (US$0.7 million equivalent, or 5S), the Government
(US$0.8 million equivalent, or 6Z), and cofinancing entities (Japanese
Government, Overseas Development Administration, and FAO) (US$0.7 million
equivalent, or 6Z) (Annex 3, Table 2). The latter would finance the cost
of consultant services under the project. Signing of the cofinancing
agreements or provision of other satisfactory arrangements would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.02). The Government would be the
Borrower and would bear the currency basket risk as well as the foreign
exchange risk (through BCF) on the Belize dollar denominated subloans
although subloan beneficiaries would pay an interest rate premium for
foreign exchange risk (para 3.29).4/ Bank funds for agricultural credit
amounting to US$7.1 million, would be disbursed through the BCF with the
CBB acting as manager of the BCF for the Borrower.
Procurement
3.23     For the non-credit component (Annex 3, Table 8), International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for the award of contracts for
four-wheel drive vehicles (about US$125,000) and pick-up trucks (about
US$80,000). For other vehicles and equipment purchases valued at less than
US$75,000 each, but in aggregate not to exceed US$250,000, international
and/or local shopping would be allowed after obtaining at least three
quotations. For all individual contracts exceeding US$75,000, the Bank
would review bid procedures before invitations to bid are issued and before
the award of contracts. During negotiations, the Borrower provided
assurances that: (a) BCB, MA and MNR would follow procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.01(e)); (b) for contracts exceeding
US$75,000, the Bank's prior approval would be required before invitations
to bid are issued and before contracts are awarded (para. 4.01(e)).; and
(c) CBB, DFC, and MA would employ consultants with qualifications,'
experience, and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank
(paras. 4.01(f)).
3.24     For the credit component, FIs and BCF would satisfy themselves
that procurement items were suitable for the respective investment projects
4/ Inflation rates have been generally low in Belize in the past and have
followed US price changes. In addition, a traditionally stable
exchange rate and souna macroeconomic and balance of payments
management minimize the foreign exchange risk of this loan to the
Borrower.



- 16 -
and reasonably priced, and that beneficiaries had canvassed the main
sources of supply and were purchasing from the most advantageous source.
Chemicals included in the Bank's list of pesticides not recommended for use
in agriculture would not be eligible for reimbursement under the loan.
Disbursement
3.25     The proposed Bank loan of US$7.8 million would be disbursed over
six and a half years, based on the disbursement profile for agricultural
credit projects in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
Expenditures for contracts and purchase orders less than US$20,000
equivalent would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs).
The supporting documents for these expenditures would be retained by the
implementing agencies and made available for review by the Bank upon
request. Subloans above US$300,000 equivalent would require prior Bank
approval (para. 3.32). The subloan documentation would be retained by the
implementing agencies and made available to Bank staff during supervision.
Disbursements for subloans below US$300,000 equivalent would be made on the
basis of SOEs. BCF and the financial intermediaries would retain the
documents which would be made available for review by Bank staff.
Disbursements would be made at the rate of 1002 of rediscounts made by BCF
(US$7.2 million); 100Z of the foreign cost and 90Z of the local cost for
equipment and vehicles (US$0.4 million); and 100Z of the foreign cost of
training (US$0.2 million).
3.26     Establishment by the Borrower of a Project Account with an initial
deposit of B$ 0.1 million to cover counterpart expenditures for all parts
of the Project other than credit would be a conditiori of effectiveness
(para. 4.02(c)). To facilitate availability of funds, the Borrower would
also establish a Special Account in the CBB, with an authorized allocation
of US$0.4 million, to cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures under
the loan. The replenishments of the Special Account would be made upon
receipt and approval of satisfactory withdrawal applications accompanied by
the Bank statements provided by CBB and supporting documents for
expenditures above US$20,000 equivalent. During negotiations, the Borrower
provided assurances that it would maintain the Project Account and Special
Account throughout the life of the project (para. 4.01(g)).
3.27     It is proposed that the Bank allow retroactive financing of up to
US$500,000 for expenditures made after May 16, 1988, to cover training for
project activities and procurement of vehicles and equipment necessary to
allow implementation to begin soon after negotiations. This would also
permit on-lending activities to take advantage of the agriculcural dry
season.
Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions
3.28     Proceeds from the proposed Bank loan would be rediscounted from
the BCF facility managed by the CBB. BCF's lending activities would be
conducted pursuant to its Statement of Policies, and Lending Procedures
governing discount operations and supervision of subloans. The content of
the Statement of Policies, Operating Regulations and Lending Procedures for



- 17 -
BCF were agreed in principle with the Borrower during negotiations. Formal
approval of the referred documents would be a condition of effectiveness
(para. 4.02 (d)). During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances
that it would open the account (BCF) on terms satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.01(h)).
3.29     Discount Rate.  BCF would rediscount loans in Belize dollars or in
US dollars at the discretion of the final beneficiary and/or the FI. For
US dollar denominated subloans, the discount rate under the project would
be set on the basis of the Bank's lending rate to the Borrower. For Belize
dollar-denominated subloans, the discount rate would be the Bank's lending
rate to the Borrower plus a 1.02 spread as a foreign exchange risk premium.
The discount rates so calculated for 1988 of CBB would be 7.8Z and 8.8Z for
respectively, US dollar and Belize dollar denominated subloans. The Belize
dollar discount rate is above the weighted average cost of savings in the
Belizean financial system and also above the 82 interest rate presently
paid for 30-day certificates of deposit (saving accounts pay 52 interest
and demand deposits zero interest). Setting the discount rate in this way
would (i) provide consistent signals to the FIs as to the likely long-term
cost of rediscounting through the BCF; and (ii) ensure that the possible
foreign exchange risk of the Belize dollar denominated subloans which will
be born by the Borrower (para. 3.22) is transferred to the subborrowers in
the form of an interest rate premium. Every six months, the discount rate
for the following semester would be adjusted accordingly. The Borrower
provided assurances during negotiations that the discount rates under the
project would be those described above and would be reviewed not later than
December 31 of each year with the Borrower and CBB. If agreement cannot be
reached by March 1 of each year on the appropriateness of such rates for
lending under the project, the Bank would have the right to stop approving
further subloan commitments under the project (para. 4.01(i)).
3.30     Discount Magin.  BCF would rediscount up to 802 of each subloan,
but in no case rediscounting more than 702 of the total cost of an
individual subproject.  However, until such time as DFC were to begin
mobilizing resources, the BCF would rediscount 1002 of the subloans
financed by DFC, but in no case rediscounting mcre than 852 of the total
cost of an individual subproject.
3.31     Subloan Limits.  BCF financing for each beneficiary would
initially be limited to no more than US$500,000 and would be subject to the
following area limits by crop:
bananas:          maximum 60 acres/applicant
citrus:           maximum 50 acres/applicant
cocoa:            maximum 50 acres/applicant
shrimp:           maximum 20 acres/applicant
For other export crops, subloans would initially be limited to US$200,000
equivalent.  Similarly, the free limit on subloans between the FIs and BCF
would be US$300,000.
3.32     Subloan Reviews.  Subloan proposals above US$300,000 would be
subject to a detailed review of the technical, financial and marketing
aspects of the project by the FIs (given the open and distortion-free
nature of the Belize economy, there are practically no differences between



- 18 -
the financial and the economic rates of return in investment projects).
During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that for the subloan
proposals in excess of US$300,000 equivalent or for any sugar subloans, the
Bank's prior approval would be required before commitment of loan funds
under the project, and that the Bank would review the first ten subloans
approved by BCF, regardless of their size (para. 4.01(j)). For loan
proposals below the free limit, documentation requirements would be that
normally required by FIs themselves, focusing on the viability of the
enterprise and its investment plan. BCF would check that the necessary
information has been provided, that the subproject is eligible for
financing and that the proposed subloan terms are appropriate.
3.33     On lending Rates and Conditions.  FIs would be responsible for
making and administering subloans to beneficiaries and would bear the
credit riek. They would fix the loan terms to take account of the cash
flow of the different crop subprojects. Subloans, however, could not
exceed 15 yeazs with up to 4 years grace. They would set their lending
rates depending on each subproject and client with no restriction from CBB
except that the spread of the FIs (other than DFC) would not exceed 6Z; DFC
spread would be a minimum of 4Z. FIs would pass subloan repayments to BCF
as they come due. CBB's Loan Supervisory Department, would follow-up on
the FIs' operationf, check on an ad hoc basis the performance of
beneficiaries finarced under the scheme, and ensure the proper utilization
of BCF resources.  Authorization for CBB's Loan Supervisory Department to
review the performance of DFC under the BCF scheme would be included in the
participation agreement between CBB and DFC. During negotiations, the
Borrower provided assurances that on-lending interest rates under the
project would be those discussed above and would be reviewed not later than
December 31 of each year with the Borrower and CBB and if agreement cannot
be reached by March 1 of each year, the Bank would have the right to stop
approving further subloan commitments under the project (para. 4.01 (i)).
The Borrower also provided assurances that through CBB's Loan Supervisory
Department it would submit to the Bank, within six months of the close of
each fiscal year, beginning with the year ending March 31, 1989, evaluation
reports on the quality of lending operations, the appraisal capability, and
the status of lending portfolios under the project for FIs participating in
the BCF (para. 4.01(k)).
Accounts and Audit
3.34     Separate project accounts would be maintained by CBB/BCF, DFC,
BCB, MA, and MNR. During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances
that: (a) the project account of ECF, DFC's overall accounts, and the
Project and Special Accounts in the CBB including a separate opinion on
disbursements made under SOEs would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the bank; and (b) certified copies of the above-mentioned
audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank annually, not later than
six months after the close of the Government's fiscal year, starting with
the audit reports for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1989
(para. 4.01(1)).



- 19 -
Implementation
3.35     The Ministry of Finance would have overall responsibility for the
project, but would not be directly involved in implementation. The
Ministry of Economic Development (MED) would be responsible for
coordination of activities between the various implementing agencies and
for progress reporting. The Borrower provided assurances during
negotiations that the MED would submit consolidated annual reports to the
Bank on the progress of operations by March 31 of each project year,
commencing Maich 31, 1989 (para. 4.01(n)). Signing of a Subsidiary
Agreement between the Government and CBB would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 4.02(e)).
3.36     BCB is responsible for overall coordination of banana development.
Where banana development under the project would take place in blocks,
comprising several farmers, BCB would assist the farmers in identifying and
acquiring suitable land from the Government; coordinating the establishment
of common facilities (access roads, irrigation, cableway systems, and
packing plarts); assisting with development of farms to the planting stage;
and, through its control of marketing for deducting from earnings repayment
of the banana subloans. The FIs would require each farmer to sign a
particir'aing agreement with BCB detailing its rights and responsibilities.
Initially, BCB would supervise contracts for providing services such as
block development, disease control, supply and distribution of fertilizers,
and technical extension services, since the Banana Growers' Association
(BGA) is not yet sufficiently well established to meet growers' needs in
these areas. The Borrower provided assurances during negotiations that BCB
would help to strengthen BGA and would transfer responsibility for managing
all service contracts to BGA by December 31, 1991 (para. 4.01(n)). BCB
would retain its regulatory and marketing functions as provided under
existing legislation. BCB would report to the MED on the progress of
operations. Signing of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and BCB
would be a condition of disbursement of BCB funds (para. 4.03(b)).
3.37     The Citrus Control Board (CCB) would oversee citrus development
under the project and would ensure that extension services are provided
through CGA. CCB would continue its regulatory role and negotiate prices
between growers and processors. CCB would report to the MED on the
progress of operations.
3.38     During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that the
Government would establish by December 31, 1988 a Cocoa Advisory Board
(CAB) with industry representation in its membership to be responsible for
cocoa development (para. 4.01(o)). Draft terms of reference for CAB have
been found satisfactory by the Bank. CAB would be responsible for advising
the MED and MA on the agricultural and marketing aspects of cocoa
development and would monitor the effectiveness of the extension service
being provided to cocoa growers. The extension service of MA in Toledo's
regional office would provide technical assistance to cocoa growers, while
the MNR would assist with land surveys and titling.
3.39     MA's Fisheries Department would provide technical assistance to
entrepreneurs in shrimp production receiving credit under the project. It



- 20-
would be responsible for reporting to the MED on the progress of
operations.
Environmental Impact
3.40     Mangrove areas would not be significantly affected since shrimp
mariculture would take place in areas located behind the environmentally
sensitive coastal areas. The tree crop component under the project would
intensify land use primarily in dry land areas already open to development
entirely outside forest reserve areas, which have been clearly delineated
by the Government and which total about 750,000 acres, about 132 of
Belize's total land area and twice the area presently under cultivation..
The 3,200 acres to be planted to tree crops (citrus, cocoa and banana),
under the project, would be in existing agricultural areas. The
establishment of some 1,000 acres of cocoa interplanted in the rain forest
should not lead to more moist forest loss since no new roads will be built.
The areas of cocoa development contain no endangered species or critical
habitat.
3.41     The Government is aware of the need to protect the environment.
In 1987, the MA drafted a Wildlife Policy Plan for Belize, which the Bank
will assist to promote. The Government also intends to form a Wildlife and
Conservation Policy Committee with the participation of private
conservation groups. The first manifestation of the effects of this policy
has been the cancellation of a proposed citrus project in the northern pert
of the country, which would have affected 25,000 acres of land. The
Government has also created the Pesticide Control Board to promote proper
use of pesticides throughout the country. The Board would ensure that the
chemicals selected in cultivating crops under the proposed loan would be
bio-degradable and would conform with Bank policy (the list of pesticides
not recommended for use in agriculture has been made available to the MA,
which oversees the Pesticide Control Board). The Government was also
informed that pesticides on that list would not be eligible for
reimbursement under the loan (para. 3.24).
Project Benefits, Justification, and Risks
3.42     Benefits and Justification.  The benefits of the project would be
of three types. First, the project would expand and promote
diversification of Belize's exports, and result in average net foreign
exchange earnings of some US$6.0 million annually at full development.
Second, the project would lead to important institutional changes in DFC,
providing the capacity for greater financial intermediation in lending for
agricultural development, improved banking services for farmers, and
strengthening of DFC in its role as a crucial agricultural financial
intermediary. Third, the project would further enhance the business
environment in Belize, thereby helping to attract the large private
investment needed to develop Belize's agricultural export potential.
3.43     By diversifying export crop production, the project would help to
reduce shocks to the economy caused by market swings and drastic changes in
international commodity prices, such as the recent drop in sugar prices.
Belize's export earnings from sugar fell from US$47.7 million in 1980 to
US$31.5 million in 1986, a drop of 512 in real terms. The project would



- 21 -
help to expand export earnings from a variety of non-sugar crops and,
equally important, would pave the way for greater private investment and
commercial financial intermediation in Belize's agricultural development.
3.44     The project, while primarily directed toward agricultural
enterprises of sufficient scale to be competitive in export markets, would
also be concerned with developing viable smallholder farms. About 802 of
the cocoa and citrus farms to be financed would be small, about 5 acres in
size. In each case, support in marketing and production would be provided
through commercial, governmental or growers' association channels. FurtheL.
growth of smallholder production outside the project should be expected
based on the experience provided to small farmers under the project.
3.45     A further benefit of the project would be the impact on
e4ployment. Annual incremental labor demand would peak at an estimated
600 man-years at full production. Much of this incremental labor demand is
expected to benefit transient migrant labor from neighboring countries,
since Belize's own supply of seasonal field labor is limited.
3.46     The project is well justified in both financial and economic
terms. Ex-ante (i.e., without considering risk) financial rates of return
from the types of investment being supported under the project are bananas
(372), citrus (242), cocoa (462) and shrimp (32Z). The economic rate of
return for the project is 282. Switching values have been calculated
(Annex 2) for each crop subcomponent on a financial basis as well as on the
overall economic benefits and costs. Market factors (prices and market
access) would be the key variables affecting both the FRR and the ERR. For
the crop subcomponents, revenues would have to fall by 302 or more in each
case before the FRRs would drop below 122. For the ERR to fall below the
OCC of 122, net benefits would have to fall at least 822.
3.47     Project Risks.  The main risks for the project revolve around
market factors: i.e., access and prices. If the Lome Agreement, which
expires in 1992, is not renegotiated under similar terms, Belize would
probably have to sell its bananas at world market prices, currently about
702 of Belize's protected price. However, even world market prices would
still provide a FRR of about 172 (and in essence an ERR of 172 also, since
there are no other distortions). Furthermore, the market in the U.K. and
Northern Ireland for bananas is guaranteed under a contract with Fyffes,
which expires in 1997 but is renewable annually on a rolling basis. In
addition, banana lands could, if necessary, be converted relatively easily
to other forms of production. For citrus, cocoa and shrimp, the market
risks are less because of the proximity of Belize to the US market,
compared with the largest competitor, Brazil, and because of the relatively
small size of Belize's total production. The project is also flexible in
design to accommodate shifts in market conditions and development of new
agricultural export market opportunities.
3.48     Risks relating to project implementation concern mainly the
capacity of DFC to implement the institutional reforms needed to improve
the quality of its loan portfolio and deliver more timely credit, and the
possibility of limited participation by other FIs in providing term lending
for agriculture. The key role of CBB as the manager of the BCF
rediscounting facility, technical assistance, training, and the



- 22 -
introduction of improved banking procedures have all been designed to
improve DFC's operations and to encourrge participation by other FIs,
though the latter is not crucial to the success of the project.
Importantly, the project has a high degree of private sector involvement,
thereby requiring little direct involvement by the Government, minimal
counterpart funding, and development of sustainable functions for DFC.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Borrower on
the following:
(a) DFC would carry out the agreed actions (para. 3.08);
(b) by March 31, 1991, the Borrower would conduct a mid-term review
jointly with the Bank, CBB and DFC to evaluate progress with
institutional strengthening, and to agree on targets and actions
for years 4 and 5 of the project (para. 3.09);
(c) by Decemnber 31, 1988, the export licensing requirements for citrus
would be eliminated and land-based shrimp production would be
exempted from the 5Z export tax (para. 3.10);
(d) BCB would appoint a Project Manager for banana development,
satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31, 1988, and would maintain
a General Manager and a Project Manager, satisfactory to the Bank
for the life of the project (para. 3.17);
(e) BCB, MA and MNR would follow procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank; and for contracts exceeding US$75,000, the Bank's prior
approval would be required before invitations to bid are issued
and before contracts are awarded (para. 3.23);
(f) CBB would appoint a consultant satisfactory to the Bank by
December 31, 1988, and that CBB, DFC, and MA would employ
consultants with qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.06 and
3.23). Annual training programs for MA would be submitted to the
Bank for its approval by March 31 of each year, starting in 1989
(para. 3.18);
(g) the Borrower would maintain the Project Account and Special
Account throughout the life of the project (para. 3.26);
(h)  the Borrower would open BCF in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.28);
(i) the discount and interest rates under the project would be
satisfactory to the Bank and reviewed not later than December 31
of each year with the Borrower and CBB; and if the rates are
considered inappropriate and agreement cannot be reached by March
1 of each year, the Bank would have the right to stop approving
further subloan commitments under the project (paras. 3.29
and 3.33);



- 23 -
(j)  the Bank's prior approval would be obtained for subloan proposals
in excess of US$300,000 equivalent or for sugar subloans before
commitment of loan funds under the project; and the Bank would
review the first ten subloans approved by BCF, regardless of their
size (para. 3.3z);
(k)  the Borrower through CBB's Loan Supervisory Department would
submit to the Bank, within six months of the close of each fiscal
year, beginning with the year ending March 31, 1989, evaluation
reports on the quality of lending operations and the status of
lending portfolios under the project for FIs participating in the
BCF (para. 3.33);
(1)  the project account of BCF and DFC's overall accounts, statements
of expenditure, and the Project and Special Accounts in the CBB
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the bank;
and certified copies of the above-mentioned audited accounts would
be s9ubmitted to the Bank annually, rit later than six months after
the close of the Government's fiscRI yevr, starting with the audit
reports for the fiscal year ending Marr>' 31, 1989 (para. 3.34);
(m)  the MED would submit consolidated annual reports as of December 31
of each year to the Bank on the progress of operations by March 31
of each project year, commencing March 31, 1989 (para. 3.35);
(n)  BCB would help to strengthen BGA and would transfer responsibility
for managing all service contracts to BGA by December 31, 1991
(para. 3.36); and
(o)  the Borrower would establish by December 31, 1988, a Cocoa
Advisory Board (CAB) with industry representation in its
membership (para. 3.38).
4.02     The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  signing of an agreement between the Borrower and DFC (para. 3.07);
(b)  signing of the cofinancing agreements, or provision of other
satisfactory arrangements, with the Japanese Government, United
Kingdom Overseas Development Administration and FAO (para. 3.22);
(c)  establishment by the Borrower of a Project Account with an initial
deposit of B$0.1 million to cover counterpart expenditures
(para. 3.26);
(d)  formal approval by the Borrower of BCF's Statement of Policies,
Operating Regulations and Lending Procedures (para. 3.28); and
(e) signing of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and CBB
(para. 3.35).



- 24 -
4.03     The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a)  for FI funds (other than DFC)t signing of participation agreements
between CBB and each Fl other than DFC (paxe. 3.07); and
(b)  for BCB funds: signing of a Subsidiary Agreement between the
Borrower and BCB (para. 3.36).
4.04     Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan to the Government of Belize for US$7.8 million equivalent; the
terms would be 17 years, including a five-year grace periou, at the
standard variable interest rate.



- 25 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 18
BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit in Belize and the Development
Finance Corporation (DFC)
1.       This annex first introduces the main financial institutions in
Belize, namely the Central Bank of Belize (CBB), commercial banks, the
Development Finance Corporation (DFC), the Government Savings Bank, credit
unions, syndicates and insarance companies. Second, it discusses the
trends in provision of agricultural credit by the two major lenders,
commercial banks and DFC. Third, it provides details on the organization,
staffing, systems and procedures of DFC, followed by a financial analysis
of the institution. A final section looks at the future prospects for DFC.
A. Financial Institutions
Central Bank of Belize
2.       CBB was established in 1982 to perform all the functions of a
central bank: providing rediscount facilities to commercial banks;
establishing rediscount rates, lending rates and minimum deposit rates; and
setting minimum reserve ratios for commercial banks, as well as reserve
ratios based on the levels of different types of deposits. CBB also plays
a major role in monetary policy through the sale of treasury bills. 1/
3.       CBB has difficulty in attracting qualified personnel because of
the relatively low salaries offered in relation to the private sector. In
particular, the unit monitoring compliance with banking regulations is
understaffed, with a division head and two bank examiners. CBB also lacks
recessary data processing equipment.
Commercial Banks
4.       Two of the four commercial banks--Barclays International and the
Bank of Nova Scotia--are branches of foreign banks. A third, formerly a
branch of the Royal Bank of Canada, was sold to local investors and is now
1/ CBB has managed to restrain aggregate demand and imports through a
combination of more stringent monetary policy, higher real interest
rates and exchange controls, with a consequent improvement in the level
of foreign reserves. The improvement in the balance of payments is
also due to the inflows of credit from foreign agencies, many of which
are contracted and negotiated directly by the Ministry of Finance. For
instance in 1985/86, liquidity ratios of commercial banks were
increased to 30? of their liabilities and the reserve ratio to 9?, up
from 7? in 1984. Since February 1987, lending and 3-month deposit
rates have been 14? and 10?, respectively; these levels are high in
real terms, as inflation over 1984-86 has averaged 32 p.a.



- 26 -                   ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 18
operating as the Belize Bank of Commerce and Industry. The fourth is also
a domestic bank (Atlantic Bank) that is 50Z owned by foreign shareholders.
Commercial banking in Belize is in transition due to the decline of the
sugar industry and has become only marginally profitable. Banks have been
reorienting their lending towards transportation, distribution and
construction and into agricultural crops other than sugar. Together with
the Government Savings Bank, they are the only depository institutions in
the country. Lending is generally short term. The banks have 15 branches
in the whole country, though some run mobile operations, with an officer
visiting distant locations regularly to conduct business.
Davelopment Finance Corporation (DFC)
5.       DFC was founded in 1963 as a mixed enterprise with an authorized
capital of BS 4 million. Of the B$ 384,000 that was actually subscribed,
the Government contributed BE 200,000. From 1963 to 1972, DFC was not a
major lender with total loans amounting to B$ 121,000 in 1972 (the
remainder of DFC's paid-in capital was deposited in commercial banks). In
1973, the Government bought out private investors and, in association with
CDB, took an active role in expanding DFC's lending. By December 1986, DFC
had a loan portfolio of BS 31.8 million and it reached BS 33.0 million in
September 1987. This increase was achieved through the loans and grants
provided by external donors (see para. 51). In 1986, DFC's authorized
share capital was increased to BE 10 million (para. 53).
6.       DFC is authorized to act as a supplier of financing for
development projects in general, develop land and engage in commercial
ventures, promote domestic and foreign capital investment, and undertake
economic and financial studies. It also carries out certain non-financial
tasks on behalf of the Government, such as administration of the student
loan program (a scholarship program financed by CDB).
Government Savings Bank
7.       The Government Savings Bank comes under the Ministry of Finance.
Founded in 1890, it performs the double function of a tax collection agency
and a savings window. It has branches in Belize's six districts, with some
5 or 6 staff in each. There is no promotion of savings, which now total
some BS 8.0 million. Savings are used to finance the Government budget in
a manner analogous to the sale of treasury bills.
Credit Unions
8.       The credit union system is an important part of Belize's financial
markets. It consists of two major players: the Credit Union League, which
groups together 22 small- to medium-sized credit unions; and the Holy
Redeemer Credit Union, the largest and by far the most successful credit
union with some 20,000 members, in operation for over 40 years, mostly in
urban areas. Altogether, credit unions account for some BS 8 million in
savings, on which they do not pay any interest.



- 27 -                   ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 18
Syndicates
9.       These are local rotating savings associations, usually made up of
about 10-25 individuals who contribute a given amount every two weeks.
Individual contributions vary, but can go anywhere from BS 100 to BS 2,000
per month. Drawings are made by order of seniority in enrollment or at
random. The syndicate is usually recycled or dissolved once the drawings
have been made. Reasons for joining a syndicate vary but the advantages of
a form of 'forced savings" are cited as the main incentive. There is some
indication that the proceeds from these drawings are frequently used in the
purchase of durable assets.
Insurance Companies
10.      The largest of these is the National Insurance Board, which
handles the Social Security funds and invests them in the country. Other
insurance companies are mostly subsidiaries of international institutions.
In general, premium income is sent out of the country and not much is
invested in Belize except for some Government securities. The insurance
companies report to a regulitory agency inside the Ministry of Finance.
B. Sources of Credit
11.      The role of private banks as providers of credit to the private
sector has receded over the past five years, while that of DFC has
increased, as shown by the portfolio figures below. This development is
due to both a decline in the sugar trade and DFC's more liberal lending
policies.
Credit by the Private Sector, by Source
(83 MillIon)
1981    X    1982   X    1983    X   1984   X    1986    X    1986    X
Comercia I
Banks     109.6  76.0 116.2  75.5 124.1  74.4 185.8  78.8 127.0  71.0  126.5  68
DFC          22.0  16.8  24.2  15.7  27.4  16.5  80.0  16.8  84.9  19.6   86.4   19
Credit
Unions     12.7   9.1  18.5   8.8  14.6   8.8  18.2  9.9  17.0   9.6  24.4   13
Total       189.2 100.0 163.9 100.0 186.1 100.0 184.0 100.0 178.9  100.0 186.8  100.0
Source: Central Bank of Blize.
12.      Commercial banks and DFC are the major sources of formal credit
for agriculture. There has been a gradual relative reduction in the
participation of commercial banks in total lending and in lending for
agriculture, particularly since the decline in sugar prices, as many of
their loans consisted of rediscounting operations through the sugar
company. The agriculture portfolio has remained at around B$ 32 million
over the past three years or about 17Z of total credit.



-28 -                   ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 18
Credit to the Privae Sector, by Doetination
(sI *IllIon)
1992    X    1968    X     1964   X    low    X    19"    X
Agriculture Sector   31.4  21    30.3   16    32.1  17   38.5  1i   82.1  17
Other Prelry Sector    6.5    4    6.0    5      9.3    6    6.7    5    6.8    4
Secondary Sectors    39.3  25    40.0   24    41.4  22   46.7  26   40.9  25
Service Sector       51.5  38    57.7   84    ".65    4    59.6  82   59.2  32
Personal !I          26.2  16    34.2   20    87.7  20   88.4  1i   87.2  20
Adjustmnt            -2.2  -1    -1.0   -1       1.0    1    2.8    1    2.6    1
Total               157.2  100.0  169.0  100.0  166.4  100.0 164.2  100.0 196.8  100.0
!I Credit union's loans Included as personal credit.
Source: Central Bank of Belliz.
13.      Figures for DFC, on the other hand, show significant increases in
total lending including agriculture. Agricultural loans amounted to 59Z of
DFC's new loans in 1986, a substantial rise from 35? in 1977, but a decline
from the peak year of 1983 (78? of total new loans) (Table 1).
Agricultural credit provided by DFC grew by 7.3Z p.a. over that period, but
with considerable yearly variations reflecting the availability of credit
lines targeted by external donors/lenders to the sector and/or variations
in lending for sugar and, increasingly, citrus, the two more important
crops financed by DFC accounting for over 50? of the 1986 cumulative value
of loans granted by DFC (Table 2).
14.      The figures on overall credit availability hide differences in
access to and distribution of formal credit among different segments of the
rural population. Commercial banks tend to concentrate on short-term
credit to established borrowers and lend very little to small farmers with
no credit or production records. DFC, on the other hand, supplies mostly
medium- and long-term credit, primarily to smaller farmers, either as
individuals or through cooperatives and other associations. From 1973 to
1986, DFC provided about 8,700 loans of which 882 were for less than
B$ 15,000, but accounted for only 22? of the total value of the loans
provided (B$ 77.6 million) (Table 4). It is estimated that 30-40? of the
approximately 12,000 small farmers in Belize receive institutional credit
regularly, although many of these are associated with the sugar industry
and therefore have established discounting operations through the sugar
company. For small individual producers, access to credit even through DFC
is more difficult, since both commercial banks and DPC have stringent
collateral requirements (usually around 130? of requested financing for DFC
loans). This is a reflection of poor repayment records and high risks
associated with the sector.



- 29 -                   ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 18
C. The Development Finance Corporation
Organization
15.      DFC is headed by a seven-member Board of Directors appointed by
the Finance Minister for two-year terms; five of them come from the private
sector and two from the public sector. The Board appoints DFC's General
Manager, who is also the Chief Executive Officer, subject to the Finance
Minister's approval. The General Manager reports directly to the Board.
16.      Internally, DFC is organized as an investment bank, with its Head
Office in Belmopan where the majority of the staff operates, and field
offices in five districts. Six divisions--three with project lending
functions (Industry, Agriculture and Housing) and four staff support units
(Loan Administration, Accounting, General Administration and
Economics)--report to the Assistant General Manager.
17.      Loan applications are analyzed and processed by each sector
division. As a result of recent donors, emphasis on agriculture, this
division is now the largest with nine project officers, five of whom are
district branch managers. The Industry Division has three project
officers. The Projects Department will probably expand into housing and
tourism as newly negotiated lines of credit specify these sectors as their
major beneficiaries.
Management and Staffing
18.      Decision-making is centralized at the level of the General Manager
to whom the internal auditor, the secretary of the Board and the newly
appointed Assistant General Manager report. The assistant General Manager
is a crucial position at DFC but is overstretched in its present
responsibilities. Originally, this position dealt with treasury, internal
auditing and accounting, but due to lack of personnel in other areas the
Assistant General Manager oversees lending activities, as well. This issue
is being considered by consultants currently engaged under CDB technical
assistance (para. 20). The posts of internal auditor, loan administration
manager and project department are presently vacant and the General
Manager, while capable, is not a full-time officer.
19.      DFC is not able to attract and keep competent staff due to the
widening gap between its remuneration packages and those obtainable in the
market place. The differences for lower and mid-management positions are
around 50Z while for top management levels, the differential is estimated
at lOOZ or higher. The present staff is overloaded with new operations and
does not have the necessary background and training to deal successfully
with these needs. The seriousness of the problem is compounded by new
demands on DFC. The diversity of sectors and clients served require more
and better qualified personnel. Also, growth in loans outstanding require
a relatively higher proportion of time spent on loan monitoring and
supervision in relation to loan evaluation and appraisal. DFC, however,
has not yet adjusted and the consequences are evident in the general lack
of control, longer processing times and low morale of personnel. These
issues and others relating to personnel and manpower are summarize below:



- 30-                   ANNEX-
Page 6 of 18
(a) low remuneration levels, cannot keep competent staff;
(b) lack of qualified staffing;
(c) high turnover at mid-management levels;
(d) key posts remain vacant for prolonged periods of time;
degeneration of accountability lines;
(e) insufficient and inappropriate training; skills are perceived as
nontransferable.
(f) inadequate fit between task description and responsibilities;
(g) no job rotation:
(h) lack of career paths inside the organization; and
(i) no appropriate incentive system; staff not motivated.
20.      These issues are currently being assessed by consultants financed
under a CDB credit line. Final recommendations are expected by January
1988. This report will be made available to the Bank together with
managements' own recommendations on staffing and a blueprint for an action
plan which would start being implemented before December 1988.
Management Systems
21.      Information systems are geared to two major uses: presentation and
elaboration of financial statements and statistical information for DFC's
creditors. While information handling requirements have become more
diverse and complex, DFC continues to suffer an inability to produce timely
accounting and financial information. Control mechanisms are therefore
weakened by lags in the delivery and compilation of data. These problems
are most evident in the additional work required of the external auditors
for the preparation of the annual audit. There is no cost accounting nor
is the information in place to set up such a system.
22.      Management information systems are fragmented and geared to the
reporting needs of external donors. Reports are designed to demonstrate
compliance with lending conditions specified under the different credit
lines. Particular attention and resources are given to collecting
statistics regarding end use of the proceeds. The end result is that DFC
prepares some 33 reports for donors with very similar information.
However, because DFC has to prepare all this information manually, it has
become a significant burden in terms of preparation work. Of even more
serious consequence is the fact that the reporting process does not provide
management with the information it needs for timely decision-making. An
example is the follow-up on loan arrears, where in spite of DFC adopting
recent organizational changes, actions have centered on defining the role
of the legal department and other units involved, but the effectiveness of
the process depends on accounting data, which is not forwarded by
accounting in a reliable manner.



- 31 -                   ANNEX I
Page 7 of 18
23.      There is no long-term planning carried out in DFC.  Budgeting is
reduced to preparation of a one year forecast of non-financial operating
costs, with no explicit goals for management or performance indicators or
an overall lending program for future years. The reasons for this are
twofold. First, with inadequate information on collections and other
financial data, it is virtually impossible to produce short-term financial
budgets based on cash flow projections. Most specifically, there is no
reliable information on loan payments at this time which would be necessary
to elaborate this. Second, given the unpredictable nature of its funding.
DFC does not have a process for long-term strategic planning such that
would allow it to aim for a specific business sector and develop its
personnel in that specialty. Lending programs and strategies are adopted
as a result of an offer ot soft-term financing from a donor agency. The
absence of an articulate planning process is also a consequence of the high
degree of centralization at the level of the General Manager, since such a
process would entail active participation from various units of DFC.
24.      DFC is installing an accounting software package and three
IBM-PC's fininced by CIDA. W~hile the equipment represents an improvement
from the manual system. it will not solve DFC's deficiencies. This
software does not work on a DO'S operating system and this limits the
capacity of the micro's as other user oriented softwares cannot be used
without a considerable amount of time lost in installing and exiting. The
software presently provides general ledger, journal and financial
accounting organized in a database system. An individual loan recording
routine is also provided but it does not have enough flexibility to
elaborate on the portfolio situation and in general does not have enough
flexibility to produce general statistical information. Time-consuming
reports for donors and other statistics will still have to be done
manually.
25.      Suzmmary of major problems in systems:
(a) deficient planning, very short terms ineffective for lack of
timely information;
(b) performance evaluation not linked to budgeting;
(c) internal reporting systems are scanty and sporadic; and
(d) reporting and information systems geared to donors requirements.
Operational Procedures
26.      There are a number of management coordinating mechanisms.  The
Board meets once a month, while the Loan Coimmittee and the recently
established Arrears Committee meet every two weeks. Additionally, there
are divisional meetings where management agrees on proposals to be
submitted to the Board. Communications are carried out in a fairly
hierarchical manner. Individual project officers have little direct
contact with the General Manager or the Assistant General Manager. Because
of the work volume, division heads have little time for review or
supervision of loan officers, and the latter tend to operate rather



- 32 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 18
independently, with their reports being checked only towardr completion.  A
crucial coordinating element is the Assistant General Manager. Although in
theory only the treasury and projects divisions report to her, in practice
the AGM deals with detailed matters of internal auditing and accounting,
and establishes the agenda for most meetings.  Involvement with individual
projects is carried out as an exception.
Credit Procedures
27.      There is no credit manual or explicit lending policies at DFC,
other than the directives issued by each individual donor for its own lines
of credit. This modus operandi discourages the establishment of formal
lending policies covering such issues as concentration by sector,
elaborating a comprehensive credit manual, and developing credit skills
among project officers. Existing guidelines focus on identifying who
qualifies for which line of credit and leave little room for project
officers in establishing terms, interest rate and other conditions applying
to a loan.
28.      The Board considers all projects whose financing exceeds
B$ 15,000. Loans below this amount are approved by management directly
and, if they correspond to specific programs, a special subcommittee
considers them on the basis of the program's guidelines. Branch managers
are authorized to lend up to B$ 5,000.
29.      The process of loan application is lengthy and cumbersome and may
take from four to eight months for the processing of new applications of
medium- and long-term loans. Applicants must fill out preliminary forms
whose purpose is mainly to collect data on credit demand and perform
successive screening of potential borrowers according to their fit with the
criteria of credit lines available. Additional trips to DFC are required
to fill out forms related solely to the credit. DFC has limited
promotional material, and project officers are passive with respect to
selling or promoting business, focusing instead on writing reports and desk
work.
30.      Branch managers are encouraged to emphasize new operations rather
than supervise existing ones, and as a result they make little or no effort
to collect.
Recent Changes and Recommendations for Institutional Strengthening of DFC
31.      DFC is in the process of improving the monitoring and supervision
of existing loans. Efforts are also being made to improve the quality of
loan analysis by upgrading the loan administration division and increasing
the staff in this unit. Other recent changes in internal coordination seek
to reduce the high level of arrears. Delinquent loans, particularly large
ones, have not been properly followed up or classified in the past.
Increased attention is being paid to loan delinquency as a result of
pressures from outside creditors. CDB has requested a proper review of the
loan portfolio as a condition of disbursements for the CDB credit line
approved at the end of 1986. As a result, DFC has given priority to the
follow-up of loan arrears and has set up a standardized procedure whereby



-33 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 18
the accounting division issues quarterly reports on pending repayments and
sends it to the arrears administration in the legal department. This
department in turn notifies the borrower of his situatior and reports
directly to the Assistant General Manager, who eventually take the case to
the Arrears Committee for further consideration.
32.      The recommendations for institutional strengthening of DFC are:
(a) Adoption of a long-term strategy. DFC needs to upgrade its
accounting, information processing and loan monitoring systems and
to define the nature and scope of the activities that it will
undertake in the future. There are two binding constraints in any
restructuring plan for DFC: scarcity of human resources and
achieving operational economies of scale in banking. Even if
remuneration packages can be raised to competitive levels, it will
be very difficult to get staff with the necessary qualifications,
particularly in lending. Also, the size of the business community
is such that even in the best growth scenario there will be a
limited number of bankable projects. Both of these factors would
suggest that DFC should consider automation as a systems strategy
to handle as much information as possible and simplify its
coordinating mechanisms by substituting personnel time for machine
time wherever possible. Simultaneously, DFC could consider
standardizing crop loan administration processes. This could
signify specializing some branches in certain types of loans as
well as decentralizing decision-making processes at the branch
level;
(b)  Incentive Systems.  Remuneration and evaluation systems need to be
brought in line with the skill levels required to operate DFC
successfully. Consultants engaged by CDB will produce specific
recommendations to this end;
(c) Training. Adequate on-the-job training in banking practices is
recommended as a component of technical assistance. A full-time
credit expert should set up a training program for DFC. Staffing
and recruitment policies should be coordinated with this training
process. The training program should also complement other
efforts in improving credit management. It should enhance the
staff's understanding of the loan classification system, provide
feedback for the elaboration of a credit manual and for loan
monitoring and follow-up;
(d) Credit Policies and Procedures. DFC's top management needs to
establish acceptable risk levels for its loan portfolio and
support this with concurrent credit guidelines and procedures for
staff involved in lending. DFC should also initiate a loan
pricing methodology. The manner in which this will be integrated
should be discussed with creditor agencies since it will involve
an infringement of "targeting' in most cases. The benefits will
be a more responsive and individualized approach to credit
granting, better margins and less emphasis on collateral



- 34 -                   ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 18
valuation. DFC also needs to be brought in under the purview of
the banking regulations and the supervision of CBB:
(e) Systems Improvements. This component involves two stages: first a
streamlining of existing accounting and managerial systems.
Information flows have to be examined in isolation and justified.
Once this is done, the best way to organize and retrieve this
information by automated equipment can be considered. A
comprehensive management information system for DFC should center
on a loan administration database that can produce individual loan
and/or borrower information. It should also be flexible enough to
accommodate ad-hoc reports requested by donors; and
(f) Organizational Changes. As follows: (i) setting up a loan workout
unit in the loan administration department. This unit should
report to the Board and if appropriate to an Audit Committee;
(ii) hiring a manager for the projects department. At present all
divisional managers report to the Assistant General Manager;
(iii) decentralize operations. The most evident need is to
liberate loan officers from small, seasonal crop lending and
concentrate on larger loans. Specific branches are better
positioned to deliver agricultural credit than head office; and
(iv) hiring a manager for the loan administration department.
33.      The recommended contents of a loan classification system and draft
guidelines for consultants to be engaged by DFC are on file (Annex 4).
D. Financial Analysis of DFC
Operating Performance
34.      Earnings.  The major observable trend is a squeeze on DFC's
financial margins from 1981 onward. Interest income has increased from
B$ 1.0 million in 1978 to B$ 3.6 million in 1986, while interest expense
has gone from B$ 0.36 million to B$ 1.9 million over the same period,
reflecting a hardening of lending terms from donors. Interest margins have
also shown high variability and a marked deterioration since 1981. While
interest expense was 30Z of interest income in 1981, the same ratio has
increased to about 53.9? in 1986. The situation is worse than suggested by
these figures since the denominator includes interest revenues from good
and bad loans, some of which will probably not be collected at all.
Variations in interest revenues as a percentage of the portfolio are
largely the result of the varying terms and conditions for each credit
line. Only the latest USAID and CDC lines have floating rate clauses in
the loan agreements, with all other lending set at fixed rates stipulated
by the creditors; DFC has not made use of this prerogative to make rates
variable.
35.      All the above results in a deterioration of net interest margins
from 64? in 1978 to 46.6? in 1986 with a clear trend for the cost of funds
to gradually increase towards market levels. Unless better asset liability
techniques are adopted, these trends will pose a major problem for DFC in
the future. This is compounded by the fact that DFC's rates have been set



- 35 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 18
at fixed levels by tradition and by indication from donors.  If DFC were to
institute a more bank-like approach to loan pricing and apply different
rates to different users, it would have to negotiate with CDB, and CDC and
other major donors to obtain waivers from applying preset terms stated in
the DFC donor agreements.
Years               1978   1979  1960  1961  1962  1963  1964  19865  19
Not Interest Margin   04.1  67.7  65.0  69.9  67.9  60.9  56.2  46.8  46.6
Interest Incom       9.7   9.6  11.9  11.9  11.4  11.4  11.7  11.4  11.2
Interest Expense     2.8   8.1   8.2   8.1   *.8  3.7   4.7   5.4   6.6
Source: DFC. Audited Financial Statmments 1976-19868.
36.      Non-financial expenses are not an important variable in DFC's cost
structure. A large fraction of administration costs, 75Z, are personnel
costs. It is expected that these costs might increase over the next few
years as DFC implements recommendations on staffing. Administrative and
personnel expenses have reduced their absorption of total revenues as
illustrated below.
Years                1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1988  1984  1985  1988
Adi nistrative
Costs as X of Total
Operation Revenues   67   64   54   64   65   50   46   48   48
37.      Margins should be satisfactory even in recent years but for the
effect of losses on interest receivable which amounts to an effective
reduction of interest revenues (Table 5). Interest receivable has
increased from 8 to 17 months of interest revenues between 1978 and 1986.
At these levels it can be assumed that a portion of it will not get paid.
The next section examines such a scenario and implications for DFC's
capital situation and profitability.
Adjustments to Income Figures
38.      According to published figures, DFC managed to break even until
1983 but has shown losses in 1984 and 1986 due mainly to higher loan loss
provisions. However, figures are incomplete on two accounts. First,
interest revenues are accrued irrespective of the status of the underlying
loan. Thus revenues have included interest on loans with high risk of
nonrepayment. As explained, interest receivable has grown from 8 to 17
months of revenues between 1978 and 1986. Second, the absence of a loan
classification system implies that there is no standard methodology for
establishing loan loss provisions.



- 36 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 18
39.      An adjustme'it to published figures is presented below together
with an estimate of the likely deficit of DFC's operations.
Years               1973  1990   1992  19Me      1964   1965    19"
Net Iicome          196   12H    46   11        (109)    47   (511)
Not Incom Adjusted    29   (184)  (SW)  (S0)   (777)   (754) (1,387)
Cmulative Deficit    29  (106)  (491)  (371)  (1,643) (2,402) (8,739)
Source: DFC. Audited Financial Statemnts 1978-1966.
Sample Estimtee. DFC - Belmopan, September 1997.
40.      In spite of a comfortable spread (before loan losses), results
indicate that DFC is running an accumulated deficit of nearly
B$ 4.0 million. Unless the earning capacity of the loan portfolio can be
upgraded in the short term, DFC will continue to be technically insolvent
and will require capitalization in the order of UTS$2.0 million to maintain
its equity base in 1987.
Financial Condition-Assets
41.      Loan Portfolio.  The loan portfolio constitutes about 702 of DFC's
assets. As of December 1986 it amounted to a book value of BS 31.8 million
or US$15.9 million and rose to BS 33.0 million by September 30, 1987. DFC's
loan portfolio has increased at an annual real rate of 12.1 percent (of
which 9.3Z in agriculture) compared to 62 for commercial banks in real
terms between 1980 and 1986. The expansionary trend in DFC's market share
has accelerated recently. Commercial banks have contracted credit by 11.22
between 1984 and 1986 while DFC grew by 182 in the same period. DFC's
reliance on large, individual loans for its funds also results in an uneven
flow of loan approvals.
Loan Approvals (Value)
Years            1981       1982     1983      1984      1985     1986
BE  Million      8.0        3.7      8.0       5.4       9.9       4.1
42.      DFC provides loans with a minimum maturity of 3 years to finance
primarily medium- and long-term development projects. Of its medium- and
long-term agricultural loan portfolio, approximately 40X have maturities
between 3 and 5 years, 30Z between 5 to 7 years and 302 over 7 years.
Repayment terms and other conditions on subloans extended by DFC are set by
its overseas creditor agencies such as the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) and others.



- 37 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 18
Quality of the Portfolio 2/
43.      Until recently little information was available on DFC's loan
delinquency situation. Official figures placed overall arrears at 82 of
the total portfolio for the year ending 1985. This data was recently
revised by DFC to 26.7Z and 15.2Z for 1985 and 1986 respectively. These
figures understate the seriousness of the arrears problem and refer mostly
to the delinquency situation for small- and medium-s'zed loans. In some
districts, the actual number of affected loans was closer to 80Z of the
total (e.g. Toledo). If large delinquent loan not presently classified in
arrears were included, the figures would show a higher increase in arrears
in relation to the portfolio. Also, rescheduling data are not available
and were not included. The figures for arrears do not include interest
overdue either, wLiich as of December 31, 1986, amounted to B$ 5.1 million,
equivalent to 17 months of interest revenues.
44.      There are other indicators that the arrears situation is more
critical than existing data suggest. For example, in 1985, repayment of
principal amounted to B$ 3.3 million. This suggests an average loan term
of ten'years, which is too high given the DFC has about one-quarter of its
portfolio in short-term loans for sugar and other cash crops.
45.      Another indicator is the increase in the interest receivable
account. Financial statements post Interest income, but do not specify the
cash inflow corresponding to this. Some inferences can be made observing
the ratio of interest paid to interest receivable accounts. During
1978-81, cash received for interest payments was 89Z of interest income,
while the corresponding figure for 1982-85 was 712 (Table 5). This
relationship shows some improvement in 1986 but it is still far from
satisfactory quality of earnings. Two conclusions can be drawn from these
figures, namely that the situation has been worsening and that DFC has been
receiving on average only 702 of the interest income due.
46.      A third indicator of the seriousness of arrears is the increase in
interest receivable relative to increases in the loan portfolio. As shown
in the financial statements, interest receivable has increased 7.9 times,
while the value of the loan portfolio has increased by only 33.2 times
between 1986 and 1978, indicating a deterioration in the collection of
interest.
47.      In view of the paucity of information and the disparity between
posted arrears figures and financial data, a survey of 100 loans of over
B$ 10,000 was conducted in September 1987. The results are summarized and
compared to DFC's own figures.
2/ Audited statements of the arrears situation of DFC as of
!           September 30, 1987 were made available in Hay 1988 showing substantial
improvement over the estimates at appraisal. In the audit, principal
in arrears was B$ 5.8 million or 182 of total portfolio and principal
in arrears 12 months and over was B$ 3.3 million or 102 of tGtal
portfolio.  Interest receivable amounted to B$ 4.5 million equivalent
to 15 months of interest revenues of which about B$ 0.7 million was
considered in arrears 12 months and over.



- 38 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 18
Arrears Situation for DFC - Reported Figures
Percentage of Total Loans Outstanding
DFC Data                     1982           1983        1985          1986
Principal Arrears Total       12.0         12.2         26.7          15.2
Arrears > 12 Months          5.3          7.0         18.0           9.1
Interest Arrears               4.0          6.5          9.4           N/A
Interest & Principal          16.0         187          36.2           N/A
Source: Development Finance Corporation.
Summary Results of the Survey - September 1987:
Percentage of Total Loans Outstanding
Program                  Aic-Agric  Aic-Ind   Housing   Sugar  EIB-Tourism
Principal Arrears
Arrears > 12 months    24.10      34.86      12.98    35.50      2.2
Interest Arrears          16.20     27.32      14.90     7.40      8.4
Total Arrears*            40.3      62.18      27.88    42.90    10.6
Total Arrears for the sample:
Principal Only*                          25.05Z
Principal and Interest*                  36.76Z
Source: DFC. Loan Files. September 1987.
* (Exludes arrears under 12 months.)
48.      The survey figures are considered the best information available
and covers 42Z of the value of DFC's portfolio. According to DFC
information and except for 1986, arrears over 12 months are an increasing
fraction of the total portfolio. This would imply that a large share of
DFC's loan portfolio would have little chance of recovery and underlines
the need for a recovery plan.
Cash Generation
49.      Preliminary analysis of available information suggests that cash
generated from the portfolio will not be sufficient to meet DFC's needs.
Using DFC's debt repayment schedule for the 1987-91 period (Table 7),



- 39 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 18
together vith information from its 1987 budget, and assuming that loan
recoveries remain at their present level, cash requirement for those years
were estimated to be B$ 7-8 million per year. Interest revenue was
projected at 10.75X of average loan balances and collected cash from
interest was calculated using the 1978-85 average of 712, yielding a net
cash inflow B$ 2.5 million. If repayment on principal is maintained at
B$ 3.3 million, the total cash inflow can then be obtained for each year
and the resulting calculation gives a cash shortfall of B$ 2.0 million per
year until 1990 (Table 6).
50.      The projections suggest a serious liquidity crunch for DFC and a
real possibility of default on its debts, unless it is recapitalized by the
Government or new loans come in. The loan stress that DFC is now facing is
caused by poor performance of the agricultural sector and effect of bad
long-term loans made several yeirs earlier with long grace periods, which
are now coming due for repayment.
Sources of Funds
51.      DFC now has six major lenders.  Until 1980, it was financed almost
totally by concessionary loans from CDB and CIDA, together with grants from
the UK. Figures on outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 1985, are as
followst
B$'000        2
CDB                                                        17,980       45.2
CIDA                                                        2,788        7.0
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)                 10,742       27.0
European Development Fund (EDF)                               710        1.8
European Investment Bank (EIB)                              3,550        8.9
USAID                                                       4,000       10.1
TOTAL                           39,770       100.1
52.      CDB is by far the major lender.  Since 1973, CDB has provided
loans in a mix of currencies for farm improvements, small industry,
agricultural and industrial development, and student loans. These funds
have been onlent on terms and conditions set out in agreements with CDB.
Interest rates charged to the DFC on these funds vary between 42 and 8Z.
As of December 1986, CDB has approved a new credit line with an
accompanying technical assistance component focused on restructuring DFC.
The second most important lender to DFC is CDC, which provides funds at a
rate of 9-1/4Z for sugarcane and citrus. CIDA has loaned some
Can$ 2.0 million at no interest for assistance to agriculture. DFC has
also acted as the country's official recipient and administrator of grants
from other countries, particularly the UK, for purposes such as hurricane
rehabilitation, small farmers and banana drought relief.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 16 of 18
Capital Situation and Composition
53.      Government is the sole source of equity to DFC in the form of
share subscriptions. These funds are usually committed as counterpart
financing for projects. Also some of the equity is generated by
reinvestment of 10? of DFC's net profits, 3/ a revaluation surplus (office
building in Belmopan), straight grants under a variety of conditions for
onlending and recapitalizing interest, and most recently unrealized foreign
exchange gains resulting from the revaluation of the US$ relative to some
European currencies in which the DPC is indebted. This last item is likely
to be reduced considerably in 1986 and 1987 as the US$ goes down in
currency markets.
54.      DFC has a debt/equity ratio of 4 to 1, which will be difficult to
maintain if losses for non-receivable loans are increased, as will probably
happen once a proper loan classification and regulatory system is in place.
Under the DFC (Amendment) Act, 1986, DFC's authorized share capital was
increased to B$ 10 million and the Government has expressed interest in
increasing its capital subscription by B$ 4.0 million. Whether this ratio
is appropriate for DFC depends on the variability of its income flows and
the risk of its portfolio. As seen by earlier estimates, the possible
losses that DFC might register based only on interest in arrears, amounted
to over BS 4.0 million for 1981-86. It might not be feasible for DFC to
operate which a constant 4:1 ratio unless its collection process is
substantially improved to ensure a continuous and more predictable income
flow.
Long-term Prospects and Recommendation
55.      DFC has been able to attract funds because it has been regarded by
donors as the most expeditious conduit for disbursing foreign aid and as
the major financial intermediary, with about 20? of the total credit
market. However, DFC could be on the way to a low growth phase, leveling
off after rapid expansion in the past 10 years because:
(a) DFC's poor performance as a lender has been brought to the
attention of several donor agencies. CDB is requesting
substantial improvements in DFC, particularly in the level of
arrears;
(b) Changes in the donors' view of Belize as a recipient of
concessionary funds. Increasingly, external funds are being made
available at closer to market rates. This has been evidenced in
the narrower financial margins for DFC for the last five years
(1981-86); and
3/  Under the DFC ordinance, 1O  of net profits must go to the General
Reserve until credit in the General Reserve equals the paid-up share
capital. The General Reserve is not available for distribution to
shareholders. (It should be noted that present practice is to reduce
the General Reserve if DFC makes a loss, i.e., the automatic 10?
transfer is still made. This is not consistent with the ordinance,
which specifically refers to a transfer of 10? of net profits).



- 41 -                  ANNEX 1
Pac 1? of 18
(c) Belizean financial institutions are presently facing excess
liquidity in line with CBB's monetary goals.
56.      As a consequence of the above, DFC can expect a scenario where the
cost of funds is increasingly higher, while interest revenues stay at
similar levels. Unless a determined effort is made to raise cash through
better collection efforts, contracting of new loans will be the only means
to obtain an additional source of liquidity with which to meet existing
obligations from previous loans.
Summary
57.      Financial analysis of DFC is based on audited statements for the
years 1978-86. The statements carry an unqualified opinion from DFC's
auditors, but to gain insights into DFC's viability it was necessary to
adjust income data to include the effects of higher loan and interest
receivable write-offs. Otherwise the figures do not reflect DFC's income
and cash generating capacity. DFC does not apply consistent criteria in
the classification loans outstanding, therefore, an estimate of actual loan
write-offs will be used to estimate loan losses. Interest revenues also
need adjustment to compensate for interest accrued on non-performing loans.
A separate section looks at the effects of these adjustments on income and
the dimensions of DFC's accumulated deficit.
58.      Results show DFC is in precarious condition.  Unless the
Government increases the capital base, the institution is technically
insolvent with an accumulated deficit of B$ 4.0 million for 1978-86 and
arrears on outstanding loans estimated at 182 of principal on the basis of
audited arrears statements as of September 30, 1987 (paras. 43-47). Market
conditions have also tightened and DFC is facing harder lending terms from
its donors. Coupled with a lack of loan pricing skills, it will be
difficult for DFC to prevent further contraction in its margins. In
addition, the low repayment ratio on the loan portfolio is about to surface
in a liquidity crunch. Cash flow projections based on historical cash
repayments point to a shortfall of B$ 1.7 million per year between 1987 and
1991. Unless this trend can be reversed, DFC could be forced to default to
its own lenders.
59.      Recommended actiont
(a) arrears 12 months and over reduction targets to 142, 10, 6?, 3?
and O in 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992 respectively;
(b) annual collection ratios (i.e., total principal and interest
collected during the year as a percentage of total principal and
interest due in the year) of 115?, 110X and 100?, for 1988, 1989
and 1990, respectively. The collection ratio would level off at
95Z form 1991 onwards;
(c) an agreed timetable for the recovery of each individual loan of
over US$25,000 equivalent which is in arrears as of
September 30, 1987.



- 42 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 18 of 18
(d) lending rates should be increased and different spreads charged on
different businesses and clients reflecting the repayment risks
associated with each; and
(e) as means to raise cash, DFC should consider selling part of its
portfolio to the Belize Bank of Trade and Industry or any other
commercial bank.



BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DFC: Sectoral Classification of Loons Approved. 1978-1996
(8s '000)
1973-82    X     1983   X    1984    X        1985    X     1966    X    1973-98   X
Agriculture       27,810   6C    6,799   78   8,294   61    7,895    75   2,440    59   47,236   61
Houning           10,100   20         -   -       214    4      56      6      968    24    11,306   15
Industry           4,281    9       667    8     998   16       328     3       20     1    6,289    8
Services           2,968    6       512   6       216    4      230    2        97    2    4,022    5
Student Loons        862    2       182   2       155    8       76    1       182   18      1,796   2
Tourim             8,968    0       58    6       616   10   1,859    14        45     1    6,428    8
TOTAL        49,479   100    .9    100  6.387    100  9.898   100  4.122    100  77 .76   100
Growth Rate, (1982-98)
Agriculture:     15X p.O.
Housing:          4X p.S.
Industry:      10.15 p.n.
Services:       7.93 p.s.
Student Loans: 20.53 p.s.
Tourim:        12.5X p.n.
TOTAL     12X p.m.
Sourco: DFC



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DFC: Value of Loans Approved to Agriculture bY Subsector, 1973-1986
(B$ '000)
Subsector           1973-82   2   1983   1984   1985    1986   1973-86    Z
Agriculture general   655       2     86      s0     11       35      847      2
Agro-Industry        1,763      6     60       -  1,214       12   3,049       6
Bananas              2,755    10       -       -    450        -   3,205       7
Citrus               1,844      7  1,124    403  3,020   1,631   8,022        17
Fishing              2,655    10      57    307    673         4   3,696       8
Forestry               373      1      -    225        -       -      598      1
Dairy                   68      -       -      -       -       -       68      -
Grains
(a) Beans               76      -     25      19      -       33     153       _
(b) Corn             1,427      5     73      97    219       11   1,827       4
(c) Rice             1,115      4    133    123    115         3   1,489       3
Cacao                     -     -      -       9    154       41      204      -
Honey                   84      -      3      16     61        -      164      -
Livestock            3,686    13    355    367    420         39   4,867      10
Coconut                   -     -      -       -      8        -        8      -
Mixed Farming        1,400      5    108    106       60       3   1,677       4
Poultry                241      1       7     36     31        6      321      1
Pig Production            -     -      -      36     24        7       67      -
Tobacco                350      1      -       -      -        -      350      1
Vegetables             106      -       -      6     15        -      127      -
Sugarcane
(a) Machinery        2,423      9      8    741       -        -   3,172       7
(b) Production       6,289    23  4,760    743    920        615  13,227      28
Total            27,310   100  6,799  3,294  7,395   2,440  47,238    100
Source: DFC.



BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DFC: Distribution of Loans Approved by District - 1973-86
(B$ '000)
1973-83             1984             1985             1986             1973-86
DISTRICT          No.    Value   Z    No.   Value    No.    Value          No.  Value    No.   Value   X
Corozal           808    8,477   15    413    807    617    1,156         659      740  2,497   11,180  14
Orange Walk       782   10,514   18    417  1,081    267         612      407      386  1,873   12,593  16
Belize            688   17,488   30       79  2,017      86    1,795      108      734    961   22,034  28
Cayo            1,195   11,575   20    110    579    155    2,670         129      669  1,589   15,433  20
Stann Creek       305    8,410   14       98    615      57    3,519       49   1,546    509   14,090  18
Toledo            987    1,710    3    188    293        62      136       17       47  1,254    2,186   3
Js
L_ 
4,765   58,174  100  1,305  5.392  1,244    9,888   1,369   4,122  8,683   77,576 100
Source: DFC.
D >4



BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loans Approvod by Size. 1973-88
(88 '000)
1973-85                    1966                 1973-86
No.  X    Value  X         No.   Value X        No.    %   Value   X
Up to 5000            5,461  76   7,t36   10    1,196  1,803   32    6,678  77   8,609  11
5001 - 15,000           778  11  7,499   1^       146  1,063  26        917  11   6,662   11
16,001 - 25,000        435  6   8,672   12         18   265    6        446    5   6,826  11
26,001 - 60,000         387   6  13,166   16        7   269   6         894   6  11,426  17
60,001 - 200,000        211   t 28,804   82         7   785   18        218    t  24,539  82 
Above 200,000            27   -  18,107  16          1   509  12         28   -   18,616  is
7_314  100 73.464  100    1.369 4.122  100   8.68!     100 77.576  100
_________________________ -  ____ _-__-_-__-__-_-________-_-_-__-__-__-_-__
Source: OFC
3t1
Y M



BEL:1ZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UUUESr UN3W: PWARIS9  INIRSr CHARM): INIr1    REEIVED
(B$'000)
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983     1984       1985
Int. ReceAvable (Oepamg Balanoe           448       585       620      809      1,091    1,941     2,509      3,473
Int. Charged to BDrrrmrs In Year         1,002    1,101     1,694    2,037      2,223     2,654     3,153     3,78)
1,450    1,686    2,314    2,846       3,314    4,595     5,662     7,253
les6 Interest Receivable Fa1 Year          585      620       809   11091       1,941     2,509    3,47       4,471
- hssd Cash Received                     865     1,066     1,505    1,755     1,373     2,06      2,189     2,782
Cash Received as 2 Int. Chgad              862      972       892      862        62X       78X       69%        732
892                                    712
Source: Mission
I. pq
.,1 q



-48-
ANNEX I
Table 6
BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DFC PROJECTED CASH FLOW
(BS '000)
CASH REQUIaREMNTS                 1987       1986       1969       1990      1991
Debt Servicing:
Principal                      3,094      3,151     3,225      3,339      2,644
tlterest                       2,506     2,322      2,100      1,862      1,662
Administration Costs:
Salaries & Related
Costs                        1,148      1,205     1,266    1,330        1.395
Other Admin. Coacs             1,174      1.233      1,294    1,359       1,427
Capital Expenditures             147         70         74       77          81
TOTAL CASH REQUIRED               8,071      7,981      7,959    7,967       7,209
.TESt cAsa iNFnow
Management/Agency Fees            44         46         48       SO          53
Rental Income                     58         61        64        67          70
Other Income                      55         58         61       64          67
CASH REQUItED FROM LoWI
PORTFOLIO                      7,914      7,753     7,786    7,786        7,019
LESS CASH tINLOW:
Interest                       2,518     2,518      2,518    2,518        2,3l8
Loan Principal                 3,324      3,324     3,324    3,324        3,324
CASH SHORTFALL                    2,072      1,911      1,944    1,944       1,177
Source: Mission



BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
(rrwv 1Otl - U*$I3)
1991                            awe19-99--39  ---                  m         ---             ---             ---3            ---1991 -
ASF W   aG8/w1 RIXEMlN(H      nf lpu             I&t~           1rilElpLI         ieef"          Princtpgl         IMenut          frt.fiuir         ite            prli.paI           Me
as    hk        a    k$         0.    Is        aos   hi          Os    hI        0      1$        am       i       (s    hI        0.     lk       O        I
U.S. Vollarm     * 2.0175     255      SIS     335   641       255     Ms3      U3   653         25S     SAS     112    631       255     51      IN      43      2SS     SIS    2)        5ll
i .     1ikaI    .1.51        3n       Ss?     135    20       342    S51      122    154        342     516     110     144      342      514      V       44     342     514      as      12
SW               f 3.16        62   1.460      ]OD     11      410   1,454     240    422        452   1,4      218     Gm       41    I.SIy      112    544      21      122      li      42
v.hnlm          5 .00                  13            35               113             303               213             291               213             2n5             213              29
ff IbItn         9 0.56                          2      1                        2       1                         2        I                        2       1                        2       1
1eAtdme      *    3.30         345     160      610    99      145     I1G      $I    30         145     II)      i5s     a)  I 4f         No       10     7n   u45         No       61      (A
ih Krnor   0.313                                13      4                       13      4                         13       4                        13       4                       13       4
N1W                 .                          34    23         m       m      1 222  23  IV'   266  222  253 333        2         216     41      116     205     23      411U   IK0       1ll
2,1SS          2.5i             3.11S          2,322              3,225           2,10             3.331           3.82            2,6-             1.,42
Source: Mission
IS :



-50-                                                                                A4I 
Table 8
DILIZI
AM3IIaZLTUIAL ClUE? AND WPOIT DIVgLOPHIJIT PROJECT
DVC Financia Stateviente. 1978-86
~~~ :9M2:A. *33!~~~~~~~91                                                     .2:ih :3MwSA
S 2 0   3   J3~~~~~S5 ~   Au3ED170r                       AI M1133  S    OUniOD          465T015          A 40TED        Au:!'E1            Au1!,M     ~      .2
:ASH MO    ED.VWI        16             44    4        502.            'll    2         ?I:          2016.   I    i,0353               .621 037                    :       : 
3PSIT I  MI9T L               94         0   VA          )   44         0   a4                U          3 vA               '44    3,110        7          !32    o       :? :
90072EC23?'IES      ~~1)  MA         *~MMA0   a                          A               NAe           va           ) 4           MA                       44          14
NE !~M,," As:00M            34A                 MA         1  4A          *  1         44     4            OMA             3M 
QT'14!941E43K AS           24A                  NAMNA2 4                   vNA             0 4 MA               mA         04 NA'14                                MA
IL  IIM      RISK As4    1?S     5       144    4       502    2        521              ? 1,2    2    2,41A    7    1,035      3    3,091        7         .2      2
LOW,4IVANCE1,119  .0,69    4           2,2 60 !-S  i  &.349   70   03,131   74                  It13    8    26,522   75    9,dg4   '9   22.,9'  76      23,934    30   :s,9!4
FAST-OJE LOWJI                  3A             MA              9*              PA               NA             M4              NA                U4            1 4A          N
L.ESSi LALOS!RS N        22      I       2130t           125    1       406 2            46,21           631    2       973           1 ,.03.6            .2 6
u".ass;i!s         oi0    1       262     o        40            419    2         Vol    21       313    2        286    0       92       '1'
4ET JANS              10,M0    !3   i2,453   59   !6,25.7   Sa   :9.004   7! 1 :o,:4    77   25-208   '2   :9,223   76  !22224I                   2 :3  
LOAMS TO 209NT         1,509     3    1,2'60          2,62'7   10    2,062    9          221    1        92      2       oil    I       *00 
'T9     30YRT         15   .3        56             134     0       2010    I       254    1        572    2        273     1       309       1 -        "      0       :
INT 9EC OHER LaAR        ses             620    z        09    s    I,-)?I    I        0,940    7    2,509    7    1, 473~   9    4,470          :2       '.'ss   :1
STOEt49SES!7I&LOA         193            1321            214!I          308e             2211    1       .62  1          065  0         2"5       I            04            NA
CUSOS     A84CfP'NML       0   M 4              A 294         MA        N    A4            0  MA           3 4       AMA           0             % 44 0, N     .Y              .
T'OERiElSIVAeLES             34A           0 4A            0  44          OMa                   NA 44         4A 4           44           0      NA         043,    :        :
E:21PRMt LEASED            04 MA             MA            0   MA         AM 4               M A           0   MA          0  44M                              :4  0A-.
IT MONK4  R00K ASS  12,514   70   !4,:21   09   20,07:   93   21,58    35    232316   87   29.603   34   23,291   89   28,000                    35         11 I23)  41
'3'AL 94AMI46 ASSE  12-,490   76   05.013   74   20,573   96   22,206   el   2.4,49  139   32,219   91  2,4.220   92   41,2-91                   '         ,35 94          ,'2
LANDJUING & E01    1,377   .6   0,460    7    1,491    &    1,3530    6                1,473    5    0.420            0,280la   4      1,441      2        1,19 
4C=14L3P                  52 0            36 0          150 1           223:!            2760 1    T6   I    39601    470    1                              !11 
CTHIR REAL ESTATEINETI          MA             MA              MA              NA              MAaNAMa                                                             44
;TIER L-_1 iNOESIME    ,20      18    2,360   19    1,937    9    0,791    7           0,489         !,710    5       1,642    4    0,868        4       :.,:~
ADVANCS.TO  MIJII4FLTS          MA             MA              MA              MA               VA             M               44                MO                44        %
01TAL L2U  TERN AS   4,22'   24    5,420  216    1,478   14    3,2              T.    2,96 1,   i      .t 2     9    2,023    9        _.20       *        .!34
-                      -------------------------- ---   --- ----------------------------
0nEDA9EIEPEMSES                 MlA            RA              NA              MA               MA             MA              a                 M4A          :5              -
SUMD69ASSETS               AM  A4 0MA                      0   NA         0   NA           OMNA            0M            9     0         89       a                          '
N4
.tSTALOTHER ASS         0  MA           14  4          0M         MA                    A AMA          0   NA         69       9               0          '2
 ------   - ----------- -               ..    --      --------------.--.                                                                            -   ------------
t3  4'  L  A S S E   07,3:7  000   20.485  1.00   -4,051  I00   25,32  -60    :7,460  :00   '35,.49  10   P7442  IN)   '4,489    10-)                  '2..91    '
3uI METAL DAM4
:ON-:%GE%' I/C,3T              46             VA              NA               A              UA              NA              MA                14                'A        .A
3hYl'604A/C3 M7A                              MA             UA              4A               94              44             94                44                '.A        '
4ONPERFIR00IM  LOANS           NA                             4A              NA               44             MA              4*                44                %;        90
----------------- ---------------.                       - ----- -----------------------------------                       -        -----------------



BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CRE2)IT AND EXPORT DEVELOF840N PROECY
DFC Financial Stateaents, 1978-86
S A L A N (2 E S N S 0 T (cont'd)
17/13178   2  12P2',79         21 12110    0  22/32/3t1            2/32132   3 2 2/32/83   1  22131114   2  122/325              *      221311U    I  Fill. 5143
t2A8112T2E5 I ESiJI  AUDITEDa           82202010        AUDITED         1002788         68I0ED            *228218         *21218          8A31183              *232183        U3LMS
8822003EP05SISO               OU0            0MA              0NA             86 a                6 00NA                         @68             0   a8               86             68
8*1L RO8Y                    0 18             uNA              om                  NA8           86              a6               068            0   a8               06 PA          a
CURREN? PORTIONLT                 M                A 680a 6                   86 NA             *mN             0a*             0VA   2, 920             7    2,  73              I ,4m
12688078512L/01,I0           0MA                  NA8            oMA          06a               0  a            0IN             06 PA           0    a8               06             68
11086808511548NK             Q  MA           0NA              0NA6            03NA             0                406             3VA              0   NA              86 a            VA
06NA    036                     0NA    06 0A8I*                                    0a8    368                      0  a8                06 a           a
DINER 8(10525                (.6a            0MA              068             06a               06 a            88              06NA             0   a8               06            6a
68601102LE ClS                oINA            068             ait33A 68                         *a              068              SE              0   68               36 a            8
268?0 FOR. BANS              060                   A 0        0NA              OH0              0 68            0NA             06a              8   68               06 VA
slat 19886LIAO               08h              0 NA            06MA            468               0  06NA 06O 36 2,00                                      7    2,3737   2,43
CD8                   8,"182   43    20,2I7I0   40    23,322   35    24,032   55        15,520   57   15, Id    45    28,129   42   15,137           34       24,122   33      7.457
82128                 3,393    14      3,439   1 7     1,e16 24    3,39          23      3,2866   22     3,230      9     3,040     3    2,5*0         &       2,532    0       I'2M
K   5231SWA IND8r1  2,1006    929  32,322I    III  3                                      733    7"32    773 2    722    2                                      3520            276                                                                                                       1
[OF                        068A            0M8              068             06 3AI8                           0a8   5072.   2                                    03*  it2    143
868                        03NA            oMA              0a8             06a              06PA5,9340II  6,22*&  9,399   22    3,P321 4,444
PENSION 8021S10            06NA            A06             2822           20521            3031             34421    39321    420                      2         430   I          248
102E20*0FAVt(               06A8                               0 NAi    038                  068              068             068             I   U                86 NA           a
M82l38161MCTI      046                     0NA              06a             06k              06a              0a8               06a           II  a8                I a            a
OTHER 61332L2128         300     2       467    ,        4'7     2        425     2        333     2    2,248       4       50      2       a2s        1         334    I2         22
ACCRUD 6    pi1861       0   68          0 KA8            0 NA            0   68           0   a8           0   6           0   NA           0   .a6              0   68         a6
02SEIO L82220 62822. 122,855   72    24,9355   73    28,639   77   29,753   77    21,8*2    77   23,000    I9   27,398   74   35,i65                    79      14,3f7   32    17,233
02016865PAYABLE              06h                  MA8          080            06 a              868N            06 NA              68            0   a8               I6            6a
3EFE88E8 13t38               16A                  NA8    06a8     068P068                                       36               068             0   68a               06 a          a
81N61T1 INT8RESt             030A             0NA             068             0NA               06NA            0la              068             0   a3               I68 6A
TO3TAL 21A126212E5    12,805   7,    24,033    7!   18,619   77   29,753   77    21,0*2    77   23,000    79   27,390    74   $3,3*5                    79      34,317  1 It      1,25
S21688C8FITAL              319     2        399     2       309     2       309     2         309     2       39       2      39"      2    3,420        3        3,420     3     2,704
MERV80S                    367     3       527      3       569    2        543    2          470     2       550    2        35       I       3so        2        (2*02   (22     (2382
580NT1                   1,37     20       ," 1     8 '        3,906     I6    3,892    23  3,779    24     3,15*    I 2    4,023    22      2,230       3        1,261    3        *30
(WIIOL SUOPL2JS              04 NA              68N           0NA             46a8a 68                          0a6               a6             8    8               06            6VA
L06*L PESEPVES               03 NA            a    I          0 a8            0 NA              06NA            0 VA             I   VA          0      68          79.   2         s39y
02 8822252023? 0258        89U     0        342     2       422   21        127     3      2,633    *       2,320     7    4,4*3    12      2,728        II       2,392     3       *9*
8100UAIN 5U00L0S             0   NA         2'9     2       228    0        lie    0          lie    0        lie    0         li3    0        223       0          223    I         It 59p
01HER8RESERVE5               aMA              0NA             18N               06              868 N           068              0680  ,325              3    2,409 3               549                                                                                                 b0
688202588080021              06NA             068V             1,8 0A           6               06NA            068             068              0   a8              0a              68                                                                                                        a
682 83222               4,932   28    3,,329   27    5,413   23    5,778   23              6,309    23      7,43   22       9,322    2*    9,226        22       7,824    29        1to
TL. L288S 8 NET NOR  27,027  200   20,104   200   ?4,13' 2  21,1   29,51t  208    27,468  100   35,349  200   37,442   200   44,492                    203      42,202   200         500
SUPPLEMENTAI DAIA;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lt
831266081T All DI                41              I WA                             "A               NA1              -1



BELI ZE
AGRICULTUJRAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DFC Financial Statements, 1978-86
(5$ '000)
I NCO0M E  S T A T IM E N T                                                                                                  -c::EmSZS:2.nflZ,
DF(,PELILE           Q-1.1,79        t2'   1'9       12'3I190   1  121331191   3   12/31!82   1  12131113   1  12/31194   %  12111185    3                   121311U6   I  FIN.  EM
40VE!D          AUD-ITED        AUDITED         AUDITED          AUDITED          AUDITED         AUDITED          AUDITED            AuDiTE          U.S.UULUM
1l)FlESE5   INEOME      1,0&      83      .1"i   8l    1,6J94   95.    2,037   97         2,223   96   21,654   91    3,153   94           3,465       90          59     9         45
INTE4EST EIPENSE          360    'f        4,,1   34       593   13        612   29          712   31    1,039   36        1,319   39       1,89       49        I'm2     48        24
I4EI INTEREST INEO'       862.   "I        air   47      1,102   62      2,47-5   69       1,511   65      2,624   57       1,934   55      1,569      41        1,617   42          20
)ANA6EI1ENT FEE NE           5  0           IS 2             34 2            410)2            40 2            55 2             70 2            16    a              2621
INESTl'ENT INCDNE          ISO813          254 U    11   It    1                  D           1921            le     I         22t 0          303       U          2566               4
5IJUwlPINrOlIE              4: 4                   6V        774             V33              71 3            2804            12925           102    3             22531              1
TOTAL OFERATiNG FE    I,2(08  16I    .2,"7  li'.'   1,816  200    2,145  200              21,353  200    2,907  200    3,426  100           3,906     too        4,604  100          so
NET INT.IN(., COMMt        949    T:       41    by    2,2-23   69       1,533   73        1,641   71      1,969   66      2,097   63    2,020         52        2,614   52          26
LESS;
PERSONNEL EtP.         404   ;4         5       '       5M    33        672    32         750   32        761   27        760   23         179      23        2,N49   26         it
AL'NINISTR4,TIVE       27?   2    ~            2'.             "I 2     470   22          537   23.       644  213        772    23        734      20          662   27         t0
DEPREETN t ANO          22               15   3             34           7223              633 I              9t2          72 '?            65    2              46  1 
UNCOLLECT ACC !r         49    4         '2     5        o'2    6       225    it         272   12        249    9        403  .19         349       9          529    13         5
NET OFERATING  INCO         98     9       ;b3)   5          73)    4        95    S          'I0    I        256     5      (209)  -3        2671      -2        (2031  -5          III
6OVERNnENT :ON1116         :oo     S       If.     7        5s'     :        12     I         I's    2         25     2         0   NA          0      *             O 0 * 
PRO"ISIONS LOAN LO           0)    A                 .        0   NA         N)IA              0   NA           0   NA          0   NA          0)     NA            0   NA          NA
JiTRAODPINRY GA2hiL           iNA                 !"A         0   NIA         0   NA           0   NA           0   NA              uA           0     II         (3692 -9           NA
Ft TRADIN6G AIJILOSS)             NA              NA              NA              NA                NA              NA             *NA        114        1          62     2          2
SECS TF'ADWNG GA]NILOS!           111             pi,             NA               NA               NA              NA              Na                 NA                 N          NA
NET INCOME IECDAE          IS~   18         "?    3         22:"    7       207    5          45    2         192     6      (209)   3         47        1        45211 -13           1
I"Ec.           ~~2o:    '7       "I   I?         :::   29        194    II       1,28')   55     1,531   5,4     1,711   52       2,963      51        1,950   49         25                                             0
.'El FROFIT AFTER T         P11  -1       11S4?  14       '209)  22        (277! -I2      (1 ,2-.5) -53    (I,35501  -4711',3401 -55    (1,9161   -49           (2,461) -62         2215)
Z-   :-Z.  -~~~~= -   ---    ---------------2s:c:-
- - -------------~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~''



TAMU 10
ULIZI
AGUICUMUAL CIDIT AND UPOIT DVZYU.P3UM  PUOJECT
DFC Parfoumaes Indicators, 1978-44
EAT1 IS NAL 9136
l2fl1hiU      iming          av:iis        32131101        1IV31#        I2I3II         oanuin        OA Nu              02.13113
miltl"  "Win  a       0.71   I      -0.44   2      *.41   2       0.44   2        0."9   I      0.5    1      4.33   2         a     I            '
IOIUU   AN  NE      -0.i :5     -L.6    :         -.s.u   :     -'.95   z      -2a.3    1    -19.64   t    -too,0   1    -5.,t1 I            -34.
REriN 0U  LI 'ASS   40.04   2       -1.01   2     4.914   2      -1.12   2       -4.66   2     -4.30   2      -5.99   2     -5.47    t         -'.47   2
1  RA AT 10 NII
111T.IK.11T.OP.If   62.95   1       79.96   2     93.23   2      94.97   2      94.46   2      91.20   1     92.30   1      3.71    1         19.5    I
h.INC.MILOD.N         9.72   2       9.03   I     11.97   2      11.09   I      l1.36   2      11.43   2     11.76   2      :1.43    2        11.22   I
INT.EIP./TOL.P.E1   29.0    2       33.11   2     32.d   I       20.53   2      20.26   2      35.71   I     31.61   2      46.54    2        47.9!   2
INfl.W1./W.U01        2.83   2       3.12   2      LIsI 2          .10   2       L.3    2       2.73   2      4.73   i       5.3     2         5.59   2
IET.E29tIET.11C.    35.93   2       42.33   2     3501   2       30.04   t      32.93   2      39.11   2     41.63   2      54.72    2         M33.3    2
ME  INT.1111N        64.07   t      57.67?   2     4.99   2       9.9    2      67.97   2      OM.6    2     11.17   2      45.26    t        4.4.,  :
S6A It KM  [P.   U 5.37   2         62.96   2     53.69   2      53.19   2      54.70   2      46.33   2     44.62   2      42.57    2        42.74   1
OMIE  OF.E10.IT.O.   22.93   2      26.43    2    20.93   2      21.91   2      22.32   2      22.1    2     22.57   2      20. 26   2         1o.4 .:
PilATINGM001151       7.98   2      -4.63   2      4.10O   2      4.51   2       0.66   2       5.47   2     -3.26   2      -1.73    2        -IM~  2
IET P9lFIT RAR61N    -0.41   1    -14.22   2    -33."    2    -13.15   2       -53.36   2    -47.33   21   -55.00   2    -49.50      I 2     -:.11! I
PE1S EPIAViO  osSS7   2.:7   I'      2.63,  1      2.67   2       2.71   2       2.63   2       2.42   2      2.09   2       :.i I.,           :.42
LOANS Tol 60051OT   15;46   2        8.23   1      12.44   2      6.69   2        1.51.    2    4.2!   2      3.26   2       1. 46    1         :.: 
AI L. I A I C2
lIW/RISK ASWsE       .4.93   2      3U.70   2     20.31  .2    26.02   2        20.12   2      22.79.  I'   27.75  I2    22.36    3           1.-
!NVILOWM             48.3    2      45.117   2    33.30   2      32.0    2      30.26   2      29.01   1      M372   I      28.2     2         4!
LI UIMII TO?m. L      3.77   1       3.9    2      L64   2        4.89   2       4.46   2       4.92   1      4.83   2        .31   z          ..c
OMIUEUAIW6S M           .  0.            32 O"     3.32t  .0.I32                  I.3           01.3,    6.32t   0.32 I                          .:
11111W.IiIII.         MI  1          & 6  12        3."    I      2.13 L         3LO           13.29 2        5.17 2        13.03 2            5.4:
JuIS/W IR.           69.1    I     0.69   2       97.35   2      96.it   I     1n.%3       1  3.31          1 41.56   2    336.6 a   2       !::.eo
C A PITS  1.I2B   1 06
ILIETEIETN/t AS   27.96   2         26.99   1     2.31   2       22.63   2      25.31   t      U."    1      35.31  2      :.31    I          II.s :.    
M LU6K.TL  '0 0     :.3              We.'    *      .4.4:                        1 .29   *      2I            2.92 .         I.Ea    a          .40
1p. 4 1101..N I no       la          2.41   a         0    *       .16   *       3.0.   *       :.681 a       21. C  a       2.:    a          ,.
r5A                   1~~~ *17.33   2    -41j.!   1        .7!   I       3s.61   2     0. '   2      I&.1i   2    4t.4         
31                    2~~~~~~ ~~~ M364                                    Cal x 63:  .4  :4.54#       ..r            ! .24 
6r01'- 9.4ts                         I :3q          :.:3   I      c.'4          I C.,!         1 4.75        16. 4!   2    !A.4                       t 2:
ME' :rg1- F-T3PE              t 3   1. 12   1    22:.'                         - ~ !    r.44  1       3:  *tes9s    t    -e. ...~ 
EC~~46t ~~4iC3  3  !I.;6   I    Z.~~~7   I     9.. 2~     ?4.c6   :           M-t~           .a      
~~  tS~~~~~~~4f~~~  *          * ~~~    .0      ::               2 36.6 2R.i.: 7:                            s:i                   .



- 54 -                  ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Development Component
Project Area
1.       For bananas, development would take place on three homogeneous
blocks each 400 acres gross (360 acres net cultivated) in the South Stann
Creek area near or adjoining the present production areas. This would
reduce the cost of access road and "dead time for aerial spraying against
Sigatoka. The sites under consideration are based on the UK Land Use
Survey of 1954, and are subject to a soil and topographical survey (being
undertaken with USAID funding) for verification of suitability prior to
negotiations. Another important factor in the selection of areas would be
proximity to Big Creek for shipping (by barge or direct). This is
necessary to reduce wind damage risk and make best use of suitable soils,
water and local labor.
2.       Expansion of citrus production under the project is expected to be
mostly in the Stann Creek Valley where the bulk of the citrus-growing area
is presently located. It is situated about 35 miles south of Belmopan.
Citrus groves are also found and may be expanded in the Cayo (west) and
Belize (centre), and recently in the lower rainfall areas of the Toledo
District. Production expansion under the project could take place in any
of these areas.
3.       Most of the cocoa production under the project is expected to be
developed in the non-reservation areas (see Annex 2) of the Toledo
District, where production is underway at present. The climate is
subtropical, with rainfall varying considerably between the upland and
lowland areas (100-170 and 80-100 inches, respectively). Other potential
areas are located in the Cayo District, where a large demonstration and
production farm, owned and managed by Hummingbird Hershey Ltd. (a
subsidiary of Hershey Food Co., USA), is situated. Small-scale production
has also been started in Cayo and would be supported for expansion under
the project.
4.       Potential and suitable areas for shrimp farminB are located in the
coastal areas extending from Ladyville to Punta Gorda. These areas are
mostly owned by the Government and would be made available at highly
concessional prices to parties or individuals for development of shrimp
fanming, as is the case at present. Several operations have already been
established in these areas, with expected commercial production before the
end of 1987. Sites selected would have flat to gently sloping topography,
with neutral clay soils and proximity to year-round supply of unpolluted
brackish to full strength water (14-32 ppt), with temperatures ranging from
250 to 300 C. All farms would be located within 3 hours' journey of
existing processing facilities in Belize City and Placentia.



- 55-                    ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Detailed Features
5.       The project would finance crop production schemes illustrated in
the indicative farm models (see Annex 4). The major crops and the expected
development are detailed below.
6.       Bananas would be developed on 1,200 acres (1,080 acres net) in
three blocks of 400 acres. Individual farmers would own and operate farms
of about 60 acres within each block (six farms to the block) and would
contribute at least 20Z to the cost of development. Major items would be:
(a) Land clearance and preparation would be undertaken on a block
basis and shared by six growers. This would involve a combination
of manual labor and machinery. About 40 acres would be used for
infrastructure consisting of access and farm roads, irrigation
system, housing and store, cableway system and a packing plant.
(b) Input supplies consisting of planting material (800 per acre),
fertilizer, mocaps, chemicals f"r Sigatoka control, props, bags,
etc.
(c) Cableway system for the transfer of fruit bunches from the farm to
the packing plant. The system would involve a common main line
for the block of six farms and farm lines, sidings, cradles and
space bars for individual farms.
(d) Housing and store. Each farm would be provided with a small house
for the farm manager/owner and a store for chemicals, tools, etc.
(e) Transport. One small pick-up (one-ton) truck would be provided to
each farm for internal transport of material and inputs.
(f) Tools and equipment. Small farm tools and equipment, including a
portable sprayer, would be provided for each farm.
7.       In addition, BCB would be responsible for establishing the
following common facilities, using credit provided under the project, on
behalf of the farmers:
(a) Access road. This would involve construction of about one mile of
all-weather road for each block.
(b) Packing plant. A packing plant would be provided for each block.
The facility would include a main building, receiving area, box
store, office, as well as plant facilities and fittings (water
supply, pumps, electrical plant, conveyors, etc.).
(c)  Mixing plant and aerial spraying.  Each block would be provided
with a self-powered mixing unit for the chemicals necessary for
aerial spraying against Sigatoka. The plant would be sited along
the main road, which would be used by spraying planes for take-off
and landing.



- 56 -                   ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
(d) Irrigation system. This would comprise an under-tree sprinkler
system on a block basis consisting of six 1,400-gpm diesel-powered
pumps, six 100-gallon fuel tanks and sheds for pumps. Civil
engineering works at the river level would involve filter basin
and screen, two main supply lines (pvc p1ping), secondary pipes,
sublaterals and sprinklers.
(e)  Seed farm.  Financing would be provided for the establishment of a
50-acre seed farm for the production and distribution of planting
material to grov.ers. Input requirements would be the same as
those for the regular farms. The seed farm would be owned by BCB,
which would sell the seedlings to growers at B$ 0.50 per seedling.
8.       Citrus would be developed on 1,000 acres in small to medium-sized
individual farms of up to 50 acres. Farmers would contribute at least 2OZ
(mainly through labor) to the cost of development. Major items would bet
(a) Land clearance and Preparation would be by manual labor and
machinery, and would consist of clearing, raking, ploughing and
harrowing, cambering and lining, and construction of farm roads.
(b) Input supplies would involve seedlings (100/acre), fertilizers
(six cycles per year of 150 lbs each), lime and herbicides.
(c) Tools and equipment, consisting of farm tools for pruning and
underbrushing, sprayers and boxes for packing.
9.       Cocoa would be developed on 1,000 acres in farms ranging from
5 acres to 50 acres. Farmers would contribute up to about 50Z of the
development cost (in the form of labor). Major items would be:
(a) Land clearance and preparation undertaken manually and consisting
of clearing, raking, ploughing and shade adjustment.
(b) Input supplies, involving planting material (500/acre),
fertilizers (250 lbs for years 1-4 and 500 lbs/acre thereafter),
lining (300 lbs/acre), and chemicals for pests, diseases and weed
control.
(c) Farm tools for pruning, underbrushing and harvesting of pods.
Boxes would also be provided for fermentation of up to 200 lbs.
Larger quantities would be fermented at a centralized plant, which
would be established by farmers' cooperatives at Hershey (the
buyer of the crop) when sufficient production is reached.
10.      Shrimp farminR would involve development of 200 acres in holdings
of 20-acre ponds and the associated facilities. Major items would be:
(a) Access road. A typical farm would require about 2 miles of single
track access road to the main road.
(b) Grow-out ponds. These would consist of units of 20 acres of water
surface comprising four rectangular 5-acre ponds with common wall
construction and independent water control structures, permitting



- 57 -                   ANNEX2
Page 4 of 5
operation at a standard minimum water depth of 3 feet. Site
selection would involve topographic survey, soil compaction and
chemical analysis, vegetation and top soil removal, and other
related operations.
(c) Water system. This would involve an intake canal from the sea, a
pump station (15-HP diesel pump) with an emergency back-up pump,
1,000-gallon fuel storage tank, a 10 acre-foot water
reservoir/distribution canal to supply seawater by gravity from
the pump station to the inlet structure. The drainage system
would consist of a canal or pipe collecting and discharging
effluent from each pond to the sea by gravity.
(d) Input Supplies. These would consist of post larvae, which would
be provided by the existing two major operations, and prepared
feed, which is imported without restrictions.
Farm Models
11.      To evaluate the proposed agricultural development, farm models
were prepared for selected export crops to measure the financial viability
of representative farm sizes. In preparing the models, inputs and yields
were estimated based on consultations with agricultural specialists in
Belize who have experience with, and knowledge of, local conditions. The
farm models evaluated the financial viability of commodities considered
suitable for conditions in Belize and which could achieve quality standards
demanded by export markets. Prices for inputs and outputs are current
prices in the country escalated to December 31, 1987. A short discussion
on each crop follows, along with copies of the farms models.
Banana
12.      A farm size of 60 acres has been chosen to evaluate this component
which totals 1080 acres (net). The selected farm size is expected to be
about the smallest farm unit that would be economically large enough to
support the infrastructural requirements for banana growing, harvesting and
collecting. For each 6 farms, there would be common development costs for
roads, packing plant, cableways and drainage. The crop yield has been set
at a conservative level of 12 MT/acre (peak) to allow for average losses a
farmer may incur. Revenues and positive cash flows would begin in Year 2.
The ex-ante financial rate of return for the banana sub-component is
calculated to be 221. The program is most sensitive to changes in revenue
and/or production which could fall in total by 162 and still provide a rate
of return of 121 (the OCC). Investment costs however, could increase by
601 or operating costs by 281 and the sub-component would still provide a
rate of return of 121.
Citrus
13.      For evaluation purposes, models have been included for small farms
(5 acres) and medium farms (20 acres) and it has been assumed that the sub-
component would comprise a mixture of 500 acres in small and 500 acres in
medium farms. Production is expected to begin by Year 5 with yields
stabilizing by Year 8 at 15.4 MTon/acre. Farm cash flow would turn



- 58 -                    ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
positive by Year 5 and would provide an ex-ante rate of return on average
of 24Z. Switching values at the OCC of 12S indicate that this program is
also more sensitive to changes in revenues and/or production (-34Z) than
investment costs (+132Z) or operating costs (+85Z).
Cocoa
14.      It has been assumed that one-half of the proposed cocoa
development of 1,000 acres would be in small farms of 5 acres each and the
other half in farms of 20 acres each. Cocoa has traditionally been grown
on small farm units because it is highly labor intensive and can be an
excellent family operation. In Belize, it is estimated that a 5 acre
development can be fully mAnaged by one farm family. For crop yields a
conservative estimate of 1,.j00 lbs/acre (peak) was used (same farmers are
already obtaining yields of 1,200 lbs/acre). The small farms should begin
earning revenue in Year 2 but would not have a positive cash flow until
Year 4 of the development while medium farms would have a positive cash
flow in Year 3. The average ex-ante financial rate of return for this crop
is calculated to be 46Z. Again, the switching values at the OCC of 12Z
that the program is most sensitive to changes in incremental revenue
(selling prices or production) (-46Z) than investment costs (+412Z) or
operating costs (+108Z).
Shrimp
15.      A typical shrimp farm would consist of 20 acres of ponds ranging
in size from 5-8 acres each. Gross land area for each farm would be
30 acres. Yields have been conservatively estimated to reach 1,600
lbs/acre/year (tails) by Year 5 of the farm development. Pilot scale
facilities in the country are reporting yields of about 1,900
lbs/acre/year. While production and revenue is expected to start in
Year 2, meaningful, positive cash flows are not expected until Year 4 of
the development when about 200 acres would be in production. The ex-ante
financial rate of return for this investment model is calculated to be 32Z.
Switching values at the OCC of 121 for this sub-component are -312 for
revenues (selling price and/or production), +260? for investment costs and
+54Z for operating costs.



iiii .sj j                                            '                 Iit l;
di      S    Stt | -| .......I  I...                                              . . |                                                                         I       ,
Is,-ts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t;.u   ,ls . U Si-s-.k,,-i                                             ,      SssEfs-ess i. a  ...........    . ..................1 .  -. 
Isssisti; sr.SfSoS5 s-s .. s}.s -    s u              g                           U             U..........
1 3iF  ivisO} IiI !tiifyfs JSZlrt u- !. ........ . . . . . . . . . .!  -    1   
I X i  ' ss t! fi*ol i !S!| 4 .i-8wxlxrt*Zi ! -giss - - ' ' !~~ .    .:  .    .                            .    .    .    .    .    .   .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   ..   .    .    .    .    .    .    .
[ h i ; f _n   X:WE  4  i  t l XX iiY l|8           !     X                         .!   ....................  .!......
I a    I                             -                            , -                                                                                          :                                              |     X S i Vis  - |I.
t~~~~  .~~~~~~.gII   -.         ~         19   :. ZW, 
-       ..                    ~~~~~~~~~~~. . .-                                                         
EU   i           Y      I%   I       ~        I                                                                             
.      . . .      . . .       . . .      . . .      . . .      



gaLE
incl.f.   r   me3 EIwOE EwLoPIff NOECT
clilu SUL 9203e Is AM FJUD mm1
FIZI40IM ~U3W
it. vil)
2-111.  . .. ....                                                                  13~~~~~~~I  II 2 -l 4  640
h0 VISS Of Pa    ,  4 am ld0 mia    m  an lo.                                                                                                     11360  0 .MAe iof em 10  11.3104  1." 208 
I.e V.1.,. 0* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 c-S2A  1 .   0e oem Iill am It aa01 ems 4 ia Oil    i 3606   a ls. I"0  II06g28m    o.28
P.oa.ce lo. Cost
3o.tImal
I..m.t
PIswt  ost                                               31. o0   IT
NM4                                                        354iils    2251    30 0  *s*0
oftR an ICS1 iECS                                          25     5s00    2250    In5 4
,Iseicmgs                                                 .4                50so0    ISO S
IOOPUCV SPI*flVgPIACt IewSTimIels$n 304                               -                    30                                 .034
VOIVSIIS6   6604A6S *0  1001S                             1I44,4 24                  a4
SPCriOG oft IIIVISIIWG ISIlpffiml                         in4      040    00        10 0
CIIIUS SFIRLIlGIE 10P3*00                                  of40    le50     so      ll 
135Cm 320                                  2~~~~~~~~~~~m044  
SI,01616 PINoseS                                         ...44. 2. 0 .. .....
PIsIII me3 V(16113l0                                      234      223004
t10K0Ing  *P93,C46                                         354     70    60         S 
A1S1OG 21601    M 06  Du                                  204 4    ee      iw 
LUING                                                     375al  0    pis0    215
06536C6K 0*0 14006lc                                       Is 0    FSO 0    I"O 0   ISO 0
5.I-IVA6  .e.01...2 as e    M  e   see    ISo4 0
1.h-IoaleIftelvenSmt                                          5.o010   2.41640  I 45% 0  I q 2000 N V00                             a                                 0
PSIICIKS                                                                                   45,   .1S 300   gos..     A 2000    30    iee      204      ie       ee       00      2
1*301316*MD 1115V306 1001*2001                                                              so.600   310 0    100,0    140 0    3040     3000    WOO   00  04   1  0    3040     30In 
CIllUS OWel 31*0SMFMO3IUI`11 OP00CISSII  Pl4os                                             2460   2100    426o0    4610      lo 04015    405   " 400     o 400  o 040   ISO      40we0
iIMts itCIinatC  OSS3SI*0C1 assI                                                           2s6   mem66      miOl    mip6    mias6    456      6 460   1441   3400    4 01    4050
s.hm.e.m  i.w.g.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.3~5262mIII30                              le  1613  214   22441  2245   1.2402.22402)145322140   2140
" Ulead law 06                                                                                 6 204    20001    100ja    302 140& , 100  304  2040   2040O     2040S     M       1040"A
MM C111115P116   11                                                                          e      sc      10       5.       50      se       se       se      se      ae        w
PISiCtiLSi*P"iC4IIoU                                                                       304,   30050    3000*   200io0    300 a 304,0    Me         2040    200  me       me IS 
dICI 2060306                                                                             275O0   ISO 0    Is* o    uss6   I,s*      S        noe    s   ISO I 2gm0    PA10    m*e 
PuML                                                                                       Joeo   15o0   30 3500 V00          m 350   SOS    31 0 i~00 35      0 50     30    Ms500
0Ai6P3I6iN   law30                                            .S 300225 0    3450    its0    215 0    III,0    315                                     i  0 154    I35  In1      11in
VMSIVSIOOKI400U                        .                            450~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IO0   ISO00   3I00    ins.  30    3500    no00    450l0    no0  350  51100
S.AIsfa.3Ne.d tbo,... .                                          .                              S612 I4S00  eoRsoo0  eqso    mo,o I41        A Iq 0  I.5A000    500   INr  340     04
5.5 lade t~~~~~m~~.e4rg                                               2 053 ~~~~2 I %'I 'I 4 fit1    4 264 1  4 224 a- 4 214 6 4.214 0 4 21 S * 214 0   2 14   424.3
I.~~~ .me, P.eageeo.. doom                      5500~~~~~~~~S  0  .410 0  e 4% 0  I 190 0 1 "01 2 I SIC 0 4 III I 4 264 1  4 %'4 I. 4 6         3      .1        146420       1            a
C0S0m30m3U604I6S0*0IiS6                         5.~~~~~~~~~~~S600   2 410 0  14%550  1 V'C00   4200A3094*1  1 261   10 414 A   4lCI4  * 00)4  1 0424  2 0424  F 14144    eeol .  1 *%I



CIUE   10 P  NAM= 40 AM) IF
*te*aIIin Cw,3~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i W1
4310 0103W            4.0100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soIA0                                               G  m  t3"6so     
U3SBUiU. 21                     6000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 2      . "44s 7 0f  u   O3610                        ju0      M11    30  0"
0101 "0*Ira
UK nn,,n.                                           iw"o  iw    m    w
mama tat isiomi                                     awe
clins stimins                        31.001,O 3010 0   10       10
uswKm smonmt moai  oi,atrs                             0    320                                                       W                           . 25 
titu   ni   imsm                                     iso    go      00
an Mit tinimi                                       204520
ftaIIimUIzS   Ilis                                    W   010                                                                               
omen"                                               me iiu  110     306    mm  010 0
msintazim aeteacra.                                s. m    tm,s.ms t.    20
colasim Ing0   s.0 p100    3400
ub1601610   6 liNN                                   100    ..O   510 -       lO
11ledtoa labor tbm                                    3.1100 3.1no 0 3.30 0  ? 1*0   -14000V 
SAlotin i.."slim  M2.will"                                   IwM0 3.6700  I40 300    2020                               W                102
b113q ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 4        S114
1110                                                                                600  3.100   3 ,  1210    7100 .  e me.    210on                    n
$"WN I  &IiittS                                                                    .410741-Mie 4CM0    0100MMO    4.3000le0cam
KOItlm                                                                             410    010    300   .100  71002M0 3010  2WS    S
sw it in SI U l                                      m e P B m I m in441 O lo C,SsIi Q PI1too  4 1 0 34 3 9 0   . 2 0 3 3 0  .3  0   2 3 00   3  0 0   . 0 0
SlimS ItO13C03 OSSiSIOSCI ciii                                         310We4 A i  to    110  1030 of  2 39A   30        000      000     no.0
tin1.  Iqii                                                                         .0 0  CM 44   10.no40  131342  Ii 4)10   CM.43   33.4no3    0 M 4230     I 320
mBUMSso ll113210 0   200                                                                       2001 6   3"0 I.0S 71060   4 206   32000  3210.0   3204
sulmaesoiiaa                                                                       110N 1#pNit0   3000  3 "000 " 100  100    MOO11,we                   w
"lammmapicasi   otofmicto  oss                                                        6 I M.1003014        SO .00   I.0000   .0, 06 mw      aw       MO
coo   ultns" aiA   a mISO  lo                                                       "a "    21A0   i o    iw   2047 321 00pm0 .o ioIIw on              awe
BCPIIBJmU,tC2HuBSSA   SS14 200    awe I    Sl000S  S.100a000                                                                 iS    M So 00    1.06
$vlf-ftiot 63.40 Sgb.M300   7.700   71000"   0100J"   13100 S  3.200411 S                                                                 003 S$43110  S IS.WO
tial Ampulla                                                   we ~~~~~~~~~~~3910 3 a4a340   3309   70 04    S" 312  S"11   723o0    S"7  wej 130
5*3,.  t      CeI4730   .04  370      30  37 143n                                      S  B   "a 13 *    20 364   7S 06  77 S"3 a  I 3110 77 3so #  I7 S"3 2  2.1431a
tOSl0S66ic I3a3tiii6G                                42.30  1020 320    630   703324373.?                       no34   33 ts4, 137)2   71. no40  3414   311040



-15-11 21 am    PMYralOm160
~lbn PreAae is"
%I. ValueS  Pof  eciio..                                            0.11t0 2.1S"003I4000 S.3lot06a160 0 %Do000a 000a i 0100       mm621 0 1160   &.1"0  B. S" aa meo lS"o
Poitl out o
0400 mmusoSl                                          3
alOUS ISSE"                                           1420
SUOK IUll 11E1$                                       30 0
"as6                                                  400    11
SOSl 611111                                           I6,   100
SKCIN                                                 It0   S" g
MIMI=oc  Swean. mftusicofflo    4 200003                      in00                        310 010010
IOPVSSIUCG rAlillitS 030 IOUIS                               ISS,0   10      20 0
01s.lgill IN "is                                                     I" 05
cicometu, oil"e p1lgauo                                              me 210
5*l-ftals Inpus                                         9 169   OGe    fl    300              10                             30                              nlog
W.alls                                            uewbow
P161   6 116kl                                  Ie 
hoioi$. otuwou 1U00 0
0116,666 5080 amtollS                                 20      in
111licil06l 1003616                                   SO t   IN a
AIONS olaom law                                          0   1160
S.*teoletoo  mg.gIo                                      1.04006 3. %610  130 0   20 0          3200                           11500                           31001
ovuesleg
ani0Ule0itE3                                                       pisa .0 3.10 3 2100 3250   3  210   3 .25004 I 250   0 210   3 .25090  CM 50  C.M105 "A 0 1.21410
111:611                                                              24100 -240 0  24004  240 0   2400   240 0   240 0   2400   2400 a      40 240a S"0  240 0  2400
P0l0W6,io                                                            so00   20   1"60  3000   n000   316 0    to160   3160   In60          I 00   S00    610 I"   m0
"as1                                                                          S1   23    4 0        11      9         t   t o l   it 00    IN00   t 000   o  00   00
616911tl161631l0l10wet11S                                                    70 0   is0 a 3is0    so 0    60    to00    too        70I0    Fe o     to0   200 a     o 
SPAIN03 an60000Vs36066656u0I                                                10   to160   160    316oo0   to000    16       300     6160 k     3160 a 3160   I11,60  360
msiol6Ct iUOO6lOitemmIISOl 000we  6e303 181611                              41 0   41 0   42 0    42 0    4N0    42 0    42 0    01S0    41 0    4s10   4a0 S as0
tobtell Irpuse                                                         Jos20I S  302112 3 qn 17    69402 It424I 0  or..0  6Il0s0   010S  I. "S0  $."S0 1000206.410
lired lowe
fiSIliilis ott$Ca61U                                                 I" 0   ISO00  I060  ?A.110   216 0   200 0 70070210 to    line t 160   tu    216o0  11011
VISIIIOfIC 3lclow                                               *500  200 0  2000   200 0   7O000.710   246    716co0   200   2400   2160  2160  3160
sweat101(0IN6                                                       S"210  2000  1Soo0  S000 a    160   2000   200 0   N000   S160   S"60   21640  210   11me0
$UK  15Iot  Iipi0C                                            20 0   6200   6160 a 20f0   10 0    200    100    so00    No00    St00    so0    100   10 0   so S
161016160050161                                               SO    350   is*0   25o0   210   no 0    72s0    250a    229    35A0    35             25no0   21 0   20
a 00613601t$t306l                                                    is0610   1100  2100   2500    2200   2204   2500    2200   2100    2100   2200   2100   is 0
#R1ing$P16                                                    so100   IN0   1St0   I1000  3160 a    10     06       16      10     30 1000ato0 lW0    o      "0 I  S 316l0   In160    016
*100313303316016116' lO   I3160  too00  l000  to000   6160    616o0   6160   I3160   6"S1N60S  6I"0 060   mu                                                          610                                0
903110 film to"                                                      3160  go000   3160   I"60   600t0    60 0   Io000   306 0   I411000    " 10   ISO00    10    60160
Sut teOl Strad tolw                                             2 0 00S?$ a0172N0 0 SM0 012i0361 s001 SI01 r.?120  6Il'M0  312y0  6072I0  60 FM0 0 &2S0 019   0
Suit 0.to006(e.0*.g-                                               2300 02  0 4 00360 %6I ,A)1I1S" 6  1261.2  30I20 0 61.000  11.40 0  16400  11000l  1.lf0 0  *SO0 1MO 
S*ft otol Ptod.ol0001 Cos                                   I4ag0  2 1610 3.420030  62SO3262A31 I4040  32012       ? 3100  3100 a*I40 0  10S400a J.Us00  3 F400 044 0010400a
01*6flu mien OINKING9                                     I69451  00 1.0 a3200    I   602120a202330 4 631249SOO04  ph 20       so 42600   000000so00  4 "A0 4 it" Sa me 



"a* .    *I o m t *4    s *L 9 II' 94  , 6,b ,, v WrT  %t  19. {CI    04 di 0 99 0 0D60 9 *   SIb   0 0446  %b og 6                         30I36         93t w Noll JIS93
6 mb  00 9  6 06 *       UV I V%i 6 I II-% b  k4 W  b    Id%, b *1bo  OOW         0    0 0  t lC 6 0     6   OWI    Ott                        6603 so6 9g 4  6t66l W6S
As61b 0936b 0"00  b 3I.0b 16ib%   1 I64  '.4110  610b0  0#60  6 0001'., 00640  0"I                                                                11a6.0ft 60aso-Ws
iI^                      ::   0000o  I W"'  03 06" I     V6  0000   NWo   Q0W 4 t agot  *A                                                                      0Igo 0t   "  PO11011"
*"                   onr : gojeww*t *                 Of       "E  IOa                                      e  0ffvtu                     gm  r wI  luilvimi
so  "0-    so  oft   00    0 00    0004       No,0   OK0    0 009   0939        UKSd wo
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                                                         t t  sou  Ms."
04M    0O"    0 a"    0       *006 0 101                                               31411140 31n6
OWLI  *W9  0061  0 1  _009  061  006 w   0 Of I 0 O  I 0  e ee 0   X I 00 etl   W ewI  t    0 a 30                                               SI690136,ta
doOK                                                    001103l94l 141 311113
*eI  Wi                                                00910213446 w  -il lPeIN
on    060   S"  L  6t46           b l,   r I&t l   4    a.564  "S04: 09341  0614M r. -a . %
0~ ~  ~ a"                          et o  on   O      0 Iol   fe  eOl  n0                                                smi ow                elillulMM
*_* *** 0's *_ * % 1s Kw *   *if    9 It    G Cs    fI             t                                           -Sim1|"|
* 009    OWl   0 SWl   693            0    GIot,  S W    0 4111110, 4SW    Is1691634 "A                          WI 116 U                       I  13 1
0 093 O   0 no      I     0 WOK    0 409   093n    09on    0 0WI   0 on                                                        106 on3 01  on90W        NMI*93
0939  0 $W'  OWM'  0939'S  093           093149  006 On   06 O    000on.  1006,4  OW $6118in
0 s 66     8  O   as OW   001    066 S"  006   00WI   660            " 066 61    0000 "                                                                 31nil
09300  00661  OWLS  0936%  00W'. OWLS  0060%  0006%  0060%  @936%  06614~  ~~ -NC0U'                                         OI 011111095 4111
.   .    .    .   .   .  .. . ...... . ...... . . ..~~~~~~~~~..... .  ......
OWL    00W    OWL   0060    0930   0939   0060   0933   00W    00W    00W                                                          NIl O  0 *IN"i M
0 41060   0 WIel                                      30161]N 30
OW on     0                                    9oi39129o4 321319614
* WI                             in3I,3~~~~~~~aI3d   111111634
00*               s9w3dlims NMwiw
* 0W0I                                  1339 310  939900
. OK                                    g114  110    931396
*       0 1   931 _0933W   011313
0 ooe -                 0 ' 6    60                                      IEIW1"CS m39l3l90S
S~~~~~~~ *i 96Js90""@ 11
0  -t .   n        O0 t   " 0 C 041    0*                               on 1900  9s't No101
0 uISIHW LI  Md 1n:3IOIANSWI lNW
*           * ~~~~01                     61o3n9 031 1no46  2904  35499
O 001  OWL                                       610603 1009 6310
*~~~~~~                                                                        ~~ OWI  060       03l}8193190 34
* sit                                                 153
69 a1100604 v1im
0 u                                          410 m11 3660m
0 064                                            "II 111311
s Kt                                      Sa a *
* as444u 13653
@4 OK                                          311006 W390
NO lOt 0X K1 S "'of0t et  IW ** *I  *z P    t*t  * ON of  * 019c  * OO'   * Pat to e "90 0 on I|                                                           q/  .1-*
oc as II   &I                       b 18 s X ,w          
IM   OWI : 13_0  49) SUM    016   W M09 .3
*MM MgWUM  MM  M JLNM    A                  OL                                          1        16
J zc} _ ~~~~~~~1063ls ~
*0010 L90 LF0 L909919040 L40 L10604W(69400l                                                                                          904_ 01965 iiir696966



mia
mb11w MIT AM EwlV  uOuw tOMs
36W - 20 At r MM
.~ ~ ~ ~ i~a ,   ui
ii.~~~~~~~~~~~t Lu                           rho em
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... t...w3 .
S        2         3        4        s                           a                  te It 
SltIW1l4l1S Id                                                            ai  m    $in es e 2n ,m , 240. 000 746 .0m0 I )4,. 860 a 740  0 00 j.w on B 2*4 S" 0 240    a yes S" 00
Use toice 03 Prejocie.,                                                      41000 I45 00  2E% O" 00 240 0 00 248 0000 ?40 888 A o4 am60   on0  0 720"0a 24a"668 O40 4*__
n.w@t_et
"its stis.i too"s OIp,scss 5115? of time                      6. see0                                                                                      -6" ~0
(4u111 Mess Ssp,v                                             e. ?Se e
SltI1150 siOVIaIS                                             4.911 0
SnoSIEZIS Fn"S It"A" F0 tItI IIS                              le ON It'
suemS r   sZig  S[Evi IMtilSlES               1        0 O
lOtumOr  mEipeacS EltE,  ns ttOes. IS 100 5
MCat lesiptoS ivigl tiS OS)e                                   Iwso                                                                                             0
,150*10NION3   I5iPIACEOWan"'3 wiases                           S"0                         so*00                       -0080                       0w
VARIOUS  miOESEts                                             3.1  05                       No 0 100 0 S1 0  a0
ishiotal otltSIOEOI t4t. ONi                                                                 4.t no                      4 I00 0      6              aroe   i. s sn e  .
1mts
iSllAEI                                                     S*   I I S"w 02000  7500000  7seoee0  7o wse0 25so, e  s "a0  os s *o os                      n  m n  _so"   m
filEE5O 1  lltil3E5  0                                               3.1M 0 49SO@    0 O     6000 SO 0  0 iOO   to6 4eo                            se              W 60  OO " "     t *   "  * &9  * 0
mIrnasmes                                                                 50   3 4005   350o0   30* S  l      o 0    0  O        I See   cows    "oS   cows e   m 14e    oeF e
timosntt teo                                                          on I   I oo a   I coco o      on o  1 "O *IS ONDo I o 0  _       o0   _       a  I we  _     O5 *_
oult sitlilm                                                           gof IZ  in 0       M 0    Poe 10|  ROD  ItOO 6   .111,           me 0    A"   * *         *   a"@ 
IEttzltol aSSISIItE                                                    *O O              g  co     
S%6-ls  Im                                                    55.        0  F01000  4300n0    800   048 n48 e4M                          O4oso,  . I .000." SOO 0 ....M.. 8 04A 8   . IND   
"trod tabor
lis1511 $AM O8G                      o                       o0 00  ei oo  0 Is oN   o 35 00o00  IS O  *e   10 000   r.e o aI% n.'0  P.
*0i                                                                  10 oo 0    00 m   8 r 000 t0  13 "A.   1.'I'  3 0. *44    * 1.   (
Sl-Iletel Nived taor                                          is o  o0 73 or 0 23 000 0 23 r0o a 21 000 A  73 800 0  't IO 8    "." -   3 * . a )"a tt
S%11  @l wos3lot                                                *.oo0 o0 IS 000 00 o01 SO0 0 o1  000 0   tste 4o8 eec 41, A III 404 cc   M  1... I.  3   4pc - It I,III '  4,4 ft
Slub-lla$ Pro  ttom CoeSl                                        l3 e590  in 7000 0  o So0  mI 100 a3oo400a o1t n4   0  III t.O P '3)4Ih 44  1 3 40tt    * I       Mt 3    tttt 3     *J
ACAo  eal  mie                                                        "S'  0     00o  5  3 "00 53  2M0 0 2' l0t  175 2   a U.'I r.0 A M 66 0 I2 ow 0 371 r0 e 3fl CM 0 in 0* 0r_



- 65 -
MUS 2
-                                                       AWn
rm  am 0 OM MNL    FIun                                                    Table 7
1      2       3       4      1       6       ?              9      10      it      1:     Is      14        is    16     1?       s      It       o
9713                 *2-111.2 -43.0 -3146.0  3314.0  4749.0    3.  40.0  4132.0  31.0   3I.0  39.0  29.0  310.0  6A.  33.0  W.                    WA.  3-.0  901.0  36.0
03 n w9?3                 -3w.0  -416.  -.0 .41.  331.0   M.  116.  1134..  1131.0  1 .  111.0  1146.0  1132.0  115.0  1131.0  1a2.#  1121.0  1116.0  :149.0  1149".
1                           1 4.  -30.0 -14.  -74.0  -4.0  -17.0   96.0   4.0  12.0  I. 1W .0  1                       5 131.0  1103.  Is.*   isi.s  1902.0  134.0  1394.0 I .0  !00.0
13 PinT13                  -25'  -a.S  -iU.@  -174.0  -54.0  103.0  3tI.0  970.0  01.0   9A. 0             .4 O99.0   9.0   W.    W.    9.0  963.   960.0  O96.    W1.0   904
n6 1          *     I D        .2-19.0-43.4 1                .4                                    1.    0.0  61.0  7          n2.  77.0  72.0    0.  727.  722.  74.0           3.
---------------_-"
T113720i   ITUSIIIM        16.0  92.0  4*.0  407.0  214.0    4.0   24.0    .0 1.4.0 2             34.0  24.0   M.0   24.0  23M.0    .0    .0    34.0   34.0   34.0   :n
'AL 3                     1467.0   92.0  40.0  407.0  204.0  204.0  234.0   24.0  234.0   24.0   34.0   .4.0  234.0   MA.0   2".0   24.0  234.0  .24.0   34.03  2:14
-  - - - - -      -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     ----- - -     ----
'AL                     -36.2 -I.  -46.   193.0   7.0               .   62.0  611   6310.0  677.0  64i1.0  6x.   4.  693w.0  6973.0  n3.                2.0  66.  7ts6.  599.0
46r .1 ii 19 11:19
VW  ._l tn
0.ula  a?         Out Stro.
"Mf W  Wsw    a  A "M mu W *U __
.A          tip la  JUP 207.        P        101 t11631300  u n  6132        L U  1 T    L  2 TM L0     3 YJ
*t        :7.420.6   19,56.9    1.695.1    0014.9   :1.29.4          1U1.1      6762.4   13,143.0   13,102.3   11H20.2
.2   19,171.3   :1,304.7   :7.704.1   14,905.0   12,77.7    6,372.0   14,732.6   :2,71.9   :0,6 .0
3:.47.9    :791.1.1,314.1 o14.514.4   12,331.4    1,911.6   14.62.2   ::321.5   :1,499.4
*  : 4:6.5  : .60.0   97-43.2   :5-142.?   :3.343.4    11410.2    4,00.5   :319.1    :1,150.3    ?.320.3
.73      :-0.l    ..912           *006.5    9.139  5.3      , 4.8   :3,552.1    ,152.P   :1.33.4   :3,49.7    11.670.6
:eS       .9-7.i  :0.342.4    =473.9         .371r.    :* 076.:   1S,*.9    !.%43.2   1193.    :3.673.0   12.041.0
"I        :?  t..   51-13.    :1.44?.:   30,04.0    . .:.57   11.11t.t    6,714.1    7.090.9   :1.054.2   :322.1
IF'160                                            -           -                      -   19.J1.3    13.0.5  1,96.3
1*-             *                     -           -      *               -          -           -    13,94f .  121071.9
- '33             .          .           -      *               -          -           -           -          -2'4gL
OdIfli  YtE 02           Itllil sm     mis       mm        rma 1961023,i    9
[~ ~ ~ ~~~-A v.o                     E94    'I lt     WS M           t not In    Dow In MSSLA           A        2 TM        J  t
Ty 2.  2.170 20 3W                27.61S      26.57      25.121      24153      U.063       24.372     23.106
13          364XV       :1427       2824        9          U.  V 1.272  21.4      21 0)      21.436      233.14      22.436
S2           :JU312      7.O1w D .5:42         2.746           7      24.t27      2o.5       2:.67       23.292     21.hs
72           9.W1z      311.3      U.4         2           ..020       3.064 lMen,13.n.       3.1U       HM            .27
IM          MLS        20.V        Oi 9.4       . 064     MM.1         61637    23.d         2u.m       2.U69       23.313
206         29.746      29..V      7 r.W       0z: N.1r   3I          27.zr      2f.32       27.14     26.012      2.594
in          $4.744     11lt S.1    174:1      32.01        0.371      2.693      :7.27       29.73 M    1.37        37.
: 9  -4         -          *           -                -           -         *      -*   27.52Y       26.063      24.72
: *tZ     -   -          -           -          -           *          -      :1.127      26.
f333          -           .          .           .          ..          -           .          .          -      27,527
*~2934     VMIE         '~&XI      aI#A     l C 0311*4          8   m41            t155        (
Lt7ALD21331.'           3.9131.8    - (A.17          CL,a    74    -3              *t31         s 4
4. W#7AC   Wti3s    U1 13 If    MA2<                  1.saY     '4  .              *t2          .0.
11r41     32f   *325         dS73         * ?



-66 -                        ANNEX 2
Table 8
BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT ANP EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNUAL FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS
Gross           Net
Foreign        Foreign
Acreage       Exchange        Exchange
Earnings*      Earnings*
------(US$ millions) -----
Bananas           1080             5.2            3.1
Citrus            1000             1.3            1.0
Cocoa             1000             0.9            0.8
Shrimp             200             1.5            1.1
Total                              8.9            6.0
-----Ave------age------f---ll-----productio----------------basis.----__-
*Average full production basis.



BELIZE
Agricultural Credit and Export Dov-lopent Project
Summary of ProJoct Cost
Foreign
as X of
Local     Foroign      Total      Local    Fo;rlgn       Total    Total
- - - - - - eB  - - - - - -       - - - - US1 million - - - -
Agricultural Credit                  6.89       11.22      29.11      4.44       5.61      19.06 C6
Institutional Dovelopuent
Vohiclro  and Equipment            *.14       9.69        0.78      9.07      9.8 U.8n                a
Consultants                        -           1.24       1.24      -         O.62        9.62     1in
Training A Other                   e.u4       0.40        0.44      0.02      0.29        0.22       91
Staff A Adi;. Costs                9.8S       -           0.88      8.42       -          0.42        -
Operation A Maintenance            0933                                                    .823  . C1 18  *  32  6O
Baex Cost (end 1987 prices)      10.23      13.78       24 01      6.11     86.9        12.90       57
Physical Contingoncies            0908        S.24        9.82      8.94      0.12        0.16       75
Price Contingencies                0.10       0.20        S.8"      O.86      0.19        9.15       67
TOTAL Project Cost                  10.41       14.22      24.83      6.20       7.11      12.81        U
--------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~- --- --- -- --- -- ---~~~~---~~----  ---_______-- -----
Note:  Total physical contingenclo  are about 8X of baso cost (excluding tho crodit componem); price
-     contingoncies are about 7X of the base cost plus physical contingenclo  (also excluding the credit
componont).
Source: Annox 4, Table 6 to 7.
I-'t,.
zmx



BELIZE
Aaricultural Credit and Export Development ProJect
ProJect Financina
(US$ Million)
Financial           Governoent          Cotinancing         World
Beneficiaries    Intermndtirie       of Beli:           Entitlel           Bank            Total
Amount   X       Amount    X       Amount       X      Amount    X        Amount  X       Amount  X
Agricultural Credit                 2.32   23         0.67    7        -                   -                7.06    70      10.06     100
Institutional Development
Vehiclos A Equipmnt        -                 -               0.08        19       -                0.36    e1       O.       100
Consultants                -                 -               -                    0.73  100        -                073    100 Oo
Training A Others          -                 -               0.03        9        -                0.23   91        0.26    100
Staff A Administrative
Co ts-                                     -               0.47      100        -                -                0.47     100
Operation A Maintenance    -                 -               0.16       s0        -                0.13   60        0.36     100
TOTAL Financing Required            2.32    19        0.67   5        0.76        6        0.73    6        7.8t   64       12.31     100
ource: Mission and Annex 3, Table 5.
1 Cotinancing would be provided for technical assistance In the form of consultant.  The Governmnt of Japan through it. Grnt Facility            X
-ould provide USS600,000 equivalent; Oversas Devolopment Administration US8100,000 equivalent; and FAO US8100,000 quivelent.



- 69 -                           ANNEX 3
Table 3
BELIZE
Agricultural Credit and Export Development Project
Disbursements Schedule
Project
Fiscal                 Agr. Credit      Initial       Balance           Total
Year     Semester       Profilea/       Deposit      on Profile       Cumulative
Z                      (US$ Million)
1989        A                4              .40           .30             .70
B               13                           .70            1.40
1990        A               23                            .80            2.20
B               33                           .80            3.00
1991        A               44                            .80            3.80
B               55                           .80            4.60
1992        A               64                            .70            5.30
B               72                           .60            5.90
1993        A               80                            .60            6.50
B              85                            .40            6.90
1994        A               90                            .40            7.30
B               95                           .40            7.70
1995        A              100                            .10            7.80
a/ Latin America Agriculture Credit Project Profile published September 1985,
reduced to six and a half due to existence of Special Account.
Source: Mission.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Tabl- 
BELIZE
Agricultural Credit and Export Dvelog_ent project
Phosins of Agricultural Production
Yeor  1  Yar 2  Year S    Yoar 4   Yar 6   Total
Citrus
Iia I producers (5 acres)
No. of ftrms                        4      16       25       as      25     1in
Cropped area                       29      a       125     1S       125      SW
Medium-sized produe re (20 acee)
No. of form                         2       6        7       is       0       25
Cropped *rea                       40     121      141      9         a *    S
Totsal
No. of foar                                22       32      40       25      125
Cropped are                        8      296      265     8W       125   1'M
Cocoa
La I I producers (5 acres)
No. of far                          4      16       25       30      25      100
Cropped area                       29      8       125     1C       125      SW
Mediur-sized producers (29 acres)
No. of form                         2       6        7       1i       a       25
Cropped area                       40     129      141     20e        a      sao
Total
No. of fara                         6      22       32      40      -25      125
Cropped area           -           6      20       265     365      12S   .1066
Bananas
-fliue-slied producers (6o ocres)
No. of form                         2       8        a                0       18
Cropped ore                       120     489      480       a        0    1,080
Shrimp
I dturn-sizod producers (20 acres)
No. of foarm                                2        2        3       3       10
Cropped ora                         a      40       40      6        6o      200
Total Project
No. of form                        14      64       74      83       63      270
Cropped ores                      240     929    1,50C    760       310    3,280
Source: Mission.



BELIZE
Agricultural Credit and Export Developmnt Proiect
Agricultural Credit Component - Total Cost. Financing and Oriuim
Yr. 1         2            a           4             6         Total      Percentago
Imported
Component                                                    Total Credit Cost
Banana                                    1,258.4      5,606.2      6,283.7     831.8           -        1,868.1        98.0
Citru                                       119.1        496.1        620.9     917.7         U9. S       2,s2a.1      88.4
Cacao                                        88.6        1465.        289.8     4M6.5         487.4       1,487.0      25.9
Shrimp                                                   362.0        486.6     854.6         719.8       2192.8        C7.2
TOTAL                                     1.460.       8,419.1    ,7,69.9    2,884.S        1.767.5      20,111. 95.6
Total Credit Financing
Total Inv.     Farmer's   Subloan      DFC         o C_mercial    World
Cost    X     Share       Total                    Banks         Bank
Banana                                   13,858.1 (29) 2,771.6    11,088.6   (6,661.9)       866.9       10,199.6
Citrus                                   2,628.1 (36)   78N 9       1,836.2   (1,191.7)       146.9       1,689.3
Cocao                                     1,437.9 (30)   431.1      1,006.9   (1,006.9)         -         1,e65.9
Shrimp                                   2,192.3 (83)   667.6       1,63650        -          U 7.0       1,228.0
TOTAL                                   20 111.0       4.647.4    1S 463.6   (8.769.6)    1.J40.8        14J122-8
/ DFC expected to place SOX of banana and citrus subloans plus 100X of cocoa.  They would rediscount 100X of the loes with
BCF. Comercial banks would place the balance of the subloasm and rediscount 8$X with KCF.
Total Credit Cost by Origin
Local                     Foreign
Costs         X            Costs       X            Total
Banana                     6,127.6        87         6,730.6       63        1J,868.1
Citrus                     1,747.0       67            876.1       33         2,623.1
Cocoa                     .1,077.8        76           569.2       25         1,437.6
Shrimp                       938.6       43          1,264.3       67         2,192.8
TOTAL                      8.890.8       44         11.220-2       68        20,111.6                   
Source   Mi=ion and Annex 4, Table6.n W
Source: Mission and Annex 4, Table B.



- 72 -
A. e l  SruA Cred-lS ib ed h rt   and.l   Projet
Aer . tul' I cre  t* _aa                 e.. W ork in. Ce.i SI CaS
Yr. 1        2           3          4            S       TO" I
in__w6st Costs                          1,400.0      6211.4    6,75.9   1,820.4    1.371.?    17,461.4
working C..isl                              -          206.7      964.0   1,064.1       398.6      2,.2
TOTAL                                 J4.0         841.1       ZM4    2LU1           1,77.5     MAZILJ
MM        Pmreat 360 se/f.                2                                                           t o-
znwa,twes Coast      b                I,m.2       4,666.6    4,9.8           -          -       to eo.
Working Capit5. Csts                      -          1U114.0    74.0       744. 0       -        1,674.0
Toal .1n.22 2                                       074.     S a..        744.0        -       12.a73.8
Esalaitlen Fuets. 1. _                                            1.112      1.118      -              -
TlltAL Cus to be FineAcd                1.24         Jo                      lull UI               LAM L
W.-O e_mal I fa      a..)                 4           16         21         80        U2             l0
Ne. of usd1 un-ai r_s CM u)               2           6           7         10          -             2Y
I_|s     k Co   /                                   33107.1  878.4  58.4    60.8      487.6      2,347.1
Wsg'klan CEO 15o1 GUetJ                   -            -          -          -         1.3         1S.8
Toa 1                                   107.1        373.4      558.4      620.8,     502.9      2,362.6
Esglatim. Feet.,                          1.011        L.OiU      1.112      1.118      1.1.2          -
TOTA. Caso to be l Fineaed                ll            Ula0      620.9      917Z 7       LI       LjL
2        of _1 I feru  (6 *cre-)            4           16         2S         30         25            100
MD. of  udim.-ssin form  (20 erse         2            6          7         10          -             26
Inv;stufnt Costs                         32.6        10.8       222.7      307.0      22.86        916.9
Working Capital Coate c                   -           3.6        37.9    .132.6       206.8        371.1
TOTAL                                     32.6        124.4      260.6      429.8      430.    . 1.26.0
Eistion Fact.r                            1.026        1.068      1.112      1.118      1.132          -
TOTAL Cost to be Flin aerid                            14.        2Uti8   430.S   4S74             1.4S 7.0
IU   of Faru  (20fO_acr)                  -           Z           2          3          3             10
.Investat Coest /                         -          383.6      333.6      500.4'      500.4     1,666.0
Working Cupitul /                  .      -                      6S.0       85.0       127.5       297.5
TOTAL Cost to ba Financed                 -          338.6      418.5      585.4       627.9     1,965.5
ucalutfion Facto,.                      -               .05       112 .  11  1.11       1.132          -
TOTAL_                                                            4  7510 Z                        2192
i   Inrwutent Coms Is 66 10,101/sere.
b   Working Capital to ba financod estimated at 55 of operating costa of 2nd ysar of operation of each fare.
J Investment Costo up to Year S.
W Vorking Capital to be financed ertited at SOt af operating costs of inv. S f * _r- that started in
Yrea 1.
/   erking cpital ra4uiromsnto for Years 2 to 4 of each fare eati_ted as 1009 of operating costs (Sea
J   Investunt Cost include 01 of operating cos in the ea*m _ear.
Pi Fifey pecant  of operstino mots for each fors in ito aseend year of oetebI i ;hent.
Srerc   Miiaen (Sea Fors Models - Appendix 5)



BELIZE
Agricultural Crodit and Export Development Proiect
Institutional Devolopment Summary - By Item Financed
Year 1       Year 2        Year 8'      Yoor 4         Year 6        Total
Investment Costs
Vehiclos                                 381,066                                                              So --  --  861,666
Equipment                                346,700        6,4U0            --            --            --       862,10I
Consultants                              5660,00      420,000       136,000       136,080             --    1,246,6OM
Training                                 140,000      146,666        40,000            --             --      820,666
Othor                                     40,666       40,000        40,006 -0                       __       120,001
Subtotal                           1,467.70    6 66.40          2165 136,00                             2.413.166
Recurrent Costs
Staff                                    140,000       167,666      17?           187,666       167,4w        SfJ,i
Operation and Maintenance-Vehicles        72,6D0      146,6O6       1466600       146,001       145,6O6    6062,65
Administration Coats                      18,240            --           --            --            --        16,240
Subtotal                             230.746      812,00        312000        12.           U2.000    1,4786740
Base  cost (end 1987 priceo)           1.668.440      917.46        s276eO        447.006       812.00      8.91.64#
Of which.                                                                                 
Local costs                            J85,030      268,586       247,6e       289,56O        239,        1,348,110
Foreign Costs                        1,530,410      668,820       i79,600      207,606         72,5f     2,648,78
Physical Contingencipc s/              167,807       76,140        37,100        29,10         16,666       815,247
Price Contingencies J                   561681       84 461        63 179        66 186        45 248       29  734
Total Componont Cost              1,897.428    1O77t!7l          27T 2         2.280         7      U    __466,2
!/  163 for investment costs, 6X for recurrent costa
.   Inflation percentagos used for both local and foroign costs ore::
Yr.1 (1988)=2,8X; Yr.2=8,5X; Yr.3=11,2X; Yr.4z11,8X, Yr.6=13,2X.
They have beon applied to base cost plus physical contingencies.
Source: Mission and Annex 4, Tablos 8 and 9.
a, w



BELIZE
Agricultural Credit and ExDort Doveloomnt Proiect
Institutional Development - Invostmnts Costs by Itm Financed
(BR)
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4        Year 6         Total
I.   Vehicles *1                                      8sl8 8 -on                        ---            ---           -        381
-PFour-nheel drive (9 at 25,)                  226---                            ---           ---
- Motorcycle. (4 *t 4,861)                      16,616            ---            -                    -        -        16,e
- Pick-up trucks (4 at 35,eee)                 148,060            ---            ---                                   149,M
II. Equi ent
AIX   _EifiTjce Equipmnt                         122 106            ---            -              --           -         122.161
- 7 pc. at 6,eeo (DFC:6, MA:1)             42,M
- Minicomputer, (DFC)                       70,88
- Other, (MA Table 12)                      18,188
B.  Field and Laboratory Equipmnt
(Table. 12-13)                            224,680          5,400                                         -        238.M
III. Consultants 9/                                  6559ON          426            1856 o6        13s5 O6           -      1,240 e
- 78 FinJonths at is,emeI 4so 420,000    1T6,0                                             iIsth             -    1,17I6
- Systems analysis (DFC)                        708,00            ---            ---            0-           -              M 78,
IV.  Tra4I .  / c140,6S                                              140,61          48,000                                   3208.86
- Short-T rz                                                                                                                                 >
Local                                       18,88         1o,868            ---            ---                      25,M
Oversns (12 man/monthe at 1619W)            90,800        90,000            ---            ---            -        180,0ih
- Long-Term
Overseas (8 yr. course)                    40,1           40,900         40,616            ---           ---       128,8
V.   Other
Studie. and Software (CBB)                      40 O0          40,PW         40,8W                           ---       12--
Grand Total                                  1.467,700        605,400       21S0808        185e              ---    2 413J161
Of which: 
Local Costa d/                               163,540        19,080          8,008            ---           ---       198,629
Foreign Coats                              1,294,168       586,320        207,808        135,861           ---    2,222,498
!/  Vehicle distribution as follows:  DFC (3)  MA (4, of which 2 for cacao component and 2 for shrimp component); WNR (2).
Motorcycles:  MA (4, cacao component).  Pick-up trucks:  BCS (4).
,  Consultants distribution as follows:  C8B (12 man-months); DFC (30 man-months); MA (6 man-months)
f/  Training Distribution.  Short-term  local:  DFC and MA (shrimp); short-term overeas: DFC (12 man-months); Long-term overseas:
MA a yr. university course in tre  crop.
/  Vehicles A Equipment:  80X imported; Consultants 186X imported; Training (average): 94X imported; Other: 8X1 imported.
Source:  Mission.                                                                                                                                 cr
fD >4
OD w



BELIZE
Agricultural Credit and Export Development Project
Institutional Development - Recurrent Costs by Item Financed
(BS)
--------------------------                          ------------------------                  ---   ----------- --------
Year 1       Ynr 2         Yonr 3       Yar 4        Yar 6        Total
----------------------------------------                                              -------     --       --------------
IC Staff                                         140Ine  BCF7,              167.000       167.000     167000          .000
CBS - 1 " nx " r BCf                       25,000        26,000       25,000        25,000       25,000     126,000
DFC - 2 loan adm. officer at 16,S00        16,50         33,000       33,000        33,000       ",000      148,500
- 1 senior credit officer at 20,000       ---        20,000       20,000        20,000       20,000      80,000
MA - Cacao (4 ext. agents at 11,000)       22,000        44,000       44,000        U,000       44,000      198,000
- Fisheries (1 officer, 1 sast.
officer, 2 technicians)             22,500       45,000        45,000       45,000       45,000     202,500
3NR - Field workers                        54,000           ---          ---           -            --  U 4,000
II. Operation and Maintenance - Vehicleo          72.          14S.000      145000        14S00       145.000      652,600
DFC                                        20,000        40,000       40,000        40,000       40,000     180,000
MA                                         22,500        46,000       45,000        45,000      45,000      202,500
BCB                                        20,000        40,000       40,000        40,000       40,000     180,000
MHR                                        10,000        20,000       20,000        20,000       20,000      90,000
III. Ad.inistrativo Cos   - MM                    18.240           ---          --            --          --        18.240
Grand Total                               230.740       312.000       312.000      312.000   1.478.740
Of which:
Local Costs!/                           194,490       289,600      239,500       239,500      289,500    1,152,490
Foreign Costs!/                          36,250        72,600        72,500       72,500       72,500     326,250
/ Staff: IOOX local; DAM, 50 local; Ad. Costs, 100X local.
Source: Mission.



- 76 -                                   ANNEX a
Table 10
BELIZE
Acricultural Croilt and Exoort Develomont Prolect
Institutional Develooent Sumaery - By Entity
(SO)
Yoar 1     Year 2     Yar S    Yenr 4    Year         Total
Central fank                 186.000    125.000    65.000    25.000    25.000       426.000
Investment Coat            160,000    100,000    40,000          -         -      800,000
Recurront Coats             25,000      25,000    25,000    25,000    25,000      125,000
DFC                          607.600    413.000    9S.000    9S.000    98.000   1.299,600
Investment Cost*           571,000    820,000          -         -          -     891,000
Recurrent Costs             8,500    90,000    98,000    98,000    98,000         408,600
Ministry of Agriculture      384.100    *19.400   S09.000   269.000   184.000   1.415.500
Investment Costs           817,100    186,400   175,000   185,000           -     812,000
Recurrent Costs             67,000    184,000   1U,000   184,000   184,000        608,000
Banana Control Board          UO,000      40.000    40.000    40.000    40.000      620.000
Investment Costa          840,000           -         -         -         -      840,000
Recurrent Coat.            20,000      40,000    40,000    40,000    40,000      160,000
Min. of Natural Resource.    151.U40      20.000    20.       20.000    20,000      231.840
Inv-stment Costs            69,600           -         -         -          -      69,600
Recurrent Costs             82,240      20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000      162,240
GRAND TOTAL              1.688.440    917.400   527.000   447.000   812.000   S.391.840
Of Which:
Invost_ent Coat.         1,427,700    605,400   215,000   186,000           -   2,418,100
Recurrent Coat             280,740    812,000   812,000   812,000   812,000   1,478,740
Sourco: Mission ann Table 11.



- 77 -
1
ricultural Cr.dit ani Essrt DvalmnXt Pr ct
n'lit..tiMsl Da fMJA.   -    fi hititW
Yr. 1         2           8           4            6        Total
__ _ _ __u_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __t_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __l_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _______--       ______
ftv"IV       cial
Cen ultsn    I _n-yr)                 SDOO           OOO .0                                        IO,D
Stud.es  S4t Xre                       4O0OD0       4.00        40.0O                              t   O
subtotal                                ltiO, OOO    lQQO         40.OO           -           -        0DD QQ
Itbcurr nt Cost,
Staff (1 mnager redi counted line)      2.  2S                   21i   2O -OD           IS 0OD,     12D
awe TOTAL                                1DL         12A0LD MCOD                         a00          AIUL.
V hTcl-- -       aJ J-                 76OD                    -                -           -       76.00
Offic. E"uipant.- 6 P c at 600          6 .000           -           -          -           -        6.000
- Minicoeputr          70,00             -           -          -           -       70 000
Con ultante     - 30 majiton          226,000      226,000           -          -           -      460,000
- Coputr Syate         70.OO0            -           -          -           -       70.000
Training        -Local                  6000         6,000           _          _           _       10,000
- Overseas (12 so.)   v0O           91LOOD          _          _            _         D
Subtotal                                6.71.000     S2D OOD      _    -       _              -      S91. tID
R"lltrf"tn ads. off. at J16.00           16.0D        S,O000      63.000     D.000      6.000      226.00
-1 meni r crredit off. at 20,000
after Year 2
o4N Vehicile                             200          40.000      40.        40.0Q       40.         1 OOD
Subtota                                    D          91 QOD      9S OOD    esQO         9J OOD      401160
GAND TOTAL                              l07.s        413.0        9S.in OOD              93L       1.J22.L
Ministry of Agriculturg
Invetmentots
VehiPclaa    Cacao: 2 jeeps             0.000            -           -          -           -       60.000
Cacao: 4 aotorcycles      16.000            --                                 -       16.000
Fisheries: 2 jeeps         0.000 S                -                                    so 0 000
Field Equip_nt                          S,OOO        5,400           -          _           _       10,400
1. 100            -           -          -           -       16.100
Consultants Cacao: 2  an-yr-.          90.000       90.000      90.000     g0.OOD           -      860 OOD
Shrimps: 1 aan-yr-.                    48,000       45,000      48,000     48.000           -      160.000
Training     Trescrops: S yr..
(over-ec)              40.000       40.000      40.000                      -      120.000
ShriZp: 6to. (local)      S. O         SQ                                              10-O-D
Subtotal                            S17.1        18S.400     1OD    l13.                         812_50 0L
Recurrent Costs
Staff:
Cacao 4 swt. agent.                  22.000       44.OOD      44 000    44 000       44 000      196.000
Fisheri.a (4)                        22,S00       48.000      48.000    46.000       48.000      202.500
1 offi Cer
1 *at. offic-r
2 technician
OCN Vehicles:
Cacao                                12.800       26000      26,000    2S.000       26.00D      112,600
Fish-ri-s                            2QQD         20:04       20 OO      20.9OD     i20,00        OOO
Subtotal                           Si7.0      lO00       1S4.000   13.4          1SM OO       QO
QVAN TOrAL                            384.100      S19.400     309 24;H9.00           l40t    .1.0
Banana Control Board
Invenmat Costs
V.hiC1a (4 Pick-up trucks)            140,000                                                      140.000
Laborary Equipment
Subtotal4Q
Recurronj COsts
OAK Vehice                               20.000       40.         40OD    40.000         40.0        lS0O
aWGD TOTAL                              S O.OOO       40IS        40.0       40.00       40.04       OOD
Ministry Of Natural Resources
SUrV y ^ $Ping  qUiR000 D-                               _          _           _        0,000
Sua      p I Pn: uiP69t 19                                      -          -           -          9  00
subtotal                             6960                                                         69
RecurreLn CO SS
Field Workera (includae accoummdation) 84,000            -           -          -           -       64,000
Administrativ. Coats - IW              18.240            -                      -           -       18,240
ONE Veh;cles                          lQ            200                   2D.         20.00D        90.OOO
Subtotal                            82.2          20O         20.        20 OOD      20.000     1t2A240
GRAND TOrAL                           151.840       20S00       20.00      20.000      20.00       214
Source: Mia*ion.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
Table 12
BELIZE
Agricultural Credit and Export Development Proiect
Eauipment Reauirements - Ministry of Airiculture
Field Equipment
Field Eaulment
Cocoa Component          a Tape Recorders              B$  300      B$  600
2 Cameras                        600         1,200
I Video Cassette Player        3,000         3,000
Recorder
Portable First Aid Kit           100           100
Video & Tape Cassettes              -        3,000
Banana Component         I Theodolite (to take
levels of terrain)             -         2,000
2 100-Meter Tapes                100           200
1 Portable Soil Test Kit         200           200
1 Portable First.Aid Kit         100           100
Office Equipment         1 Photocopy Machine             5,000         5,000
1 Yestener Duplicator          5,000         5,000
1 Office Computer              6,000         6,000
1 Portable First Aid Kit         100           100
TOTAL                                     B$26.500
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.



79 -ANNrX 3
Table 13
Page 1 of 2
BELIZE
Wricultureia Cj'it and Export Development.Project
SiffI.n_.I. Vehicles and EauiPment Re99q1 mints
(Ministry of Natural Resourcee)
Subdivision of 2,000 acres  '.nto 200-5 acre parcels and 50-20 acre parcels.
Estimated time to complete both surveys is six montht.
ProDosed Staffin :
1 Surveyor
1 Assistant Surveyor
1 Survey Technician
1 Temporary Survey Technician (3-month period)
3 Gangs Workmen (9)
1 Gang Workmen (3) (4-month period)
1 Driver/Mechanic
1 Cook/Watchman
guipment (Cadastral Surveys):
2 Theodolite T1A (20 second of arc)
4 100 Meter Steel Tapes
2 60 Meter Steel Tapes
4 Chain Saws
2 Power Plants
2 4x4 Pick Up
5 Porta Kamp (10 x 20)
2 Caravans
Local Tools
Camping Equipment
4 Calculators
Estimated Length of Traverses:
50 - 20 acre parcels - 26 miles
200 - 5 acre parcels - 52 miles
The methodology used in the estimation shows a direct relation between a 5-
acri parcel and a 20-acre parcel. It needs twice as much traversing to
sur!ey a 20-acre parcel compared to a 5-acre parcel. Therefore, the amount
of ,ork necessary would be approximately doubled.



-80 -                        ANNEX 3
Table 13
Page 2 of 2
Survey Cost (Government)   Actual (Proportionate Costs for Use
on Project - 6 months)
Survey Workers                 49,600
Four-Wheel Drivo Vehicles      50,000
Equipment                      15,600
Monumants                        2,000
Accomodation                     4.400
BS 121,600
Administrative Cost            15Z                            18,240
TOTAL                          BS   139.840
Source: Ministry of Natural Resources.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
BELIZE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DZVELOPM)NT PROJ=CT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1.   The Agricultural Sector - Working Paper
2.   The Development Finance Corporation - Working Paper
3.   Visit Report - Consultant G. Tuke - Working Paper
4.  Rend Jarquin Report - Working Paper
5.   Tentative Wildlife Policy Plan for Belize
6.   Prsp-ration Mission Report (FAO/CP)
7.   Growing Cocoa in Belize
8.   Toledo Research and Development Project
9.   Policy Statement for DFC
10. A Study of the Financial System of Belize
11. Grant Agreement Between the Caribbean Development Bank and The
Development Finance Corpofation
12.  Primary Sector Plan for Belize 1985-1989
13. Food and Agricultural Policy of the Government of Belize, 1986
14. Banana Control Board - Working Piper
15. Development Finance Corporation - Loan Portfolio Working Paper
16. Private Sector Commercial Bank Discount Fund Status Report,
September 8, 1987
17. Cocoa Advisory Board - Draft Terms of Reference
18. Cocoa Farm Economic Report and Development Models
19. FARMOD Output for All Models
20. Draft TORS for Audit of DFC's Arrears
21. Draft TORS for BCF Consultant
22. Draft TORS for DFC Consultants
23. Draft Proposal for a Loan Rick Classification System



IBRD 20836
89'00                                 88'30                                 8800                                                   U S A
18'30                                                            Cchetemol                              18'30-
n#or_errcw    ~~~~~~~~~~*'*Cher   yC? IConselo                                                                                         -.
,, oanu??r MEXICO  Potchtcc??s jorozrnI1                                          MEXiCO
Bs08EliZE
i      carn                        San V,0t5       *                                 j
-                      Doug.ass       Phogresso                                                                  i sOCI ?' (
SonAMo.io%               N\       COROZAL                  _..                                            cossA       5^
eek  ro nge  Walk                                                        __)_ __ _ __T__RI1_C_T_  _   _   _   _   _   _
Ambergris                                 87030
18,00      ** o                  j                                                         Cay                                                               100
/-oo"~~   *-                 rno RsidgeJ    \
Neust     e    u    3     n  Fl,\                                           Son Pedroo                            BELIZE
\ Chicoi                                          AGRICULTURAL CREDIT  AND
* nt od                                    EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
eads
dHill                                                    AGRICULTURAL  LAND  USE:
iBerru,dcl  Boo                                                                      Forest Reserves
Roncho Dolores j                                                  Turneffe                     , Sugar Cane
17'30'1                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Islands
j * (;,< a ;;;-Behze City   .                      ;Rice
Fruits and Vegetables
..<-i i                   .  ,t,                    ,      t-,'                                                         -1 ',.-t Citrus
<I  *                    *          *           K      [ 1t, Ii-;lr*n7 *                                                         Banonas
|   rm9or   eW O k               V Wo ,k
LU  I                                                                                                                      ' Cocoa
g * ,| O5\\ZELMORAN *_ * , >~~~~~~~~~' \
\\\  Mixed Forming
()   fiSQnlBdrio  <   / / )           t                              _                                      Shrimo fMariculture)
*    Honey
Cattle
no                                 ~~~~~~~~~INDUSTRY:
I                       1      Sugar Factories
13 Rice Mills
0 Citrus Factories
3                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~Kedidl r
*     Sawmills
| versdate                 I                            ELEVATION:
!   ;-o   ,;,,2:''E " <                                0     ~~~~~~~~~     ~      ~      ~~~RivercloleI
over 2,000 feet
* ~~~~~~~,on  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~1,000 -  2,000 feet
1 ./                   I                OSeine Bight Villoge                                            below  2,000 feet
-16                     .                                             loceSig                                                       Rainfall in inches per year
'~  t   vnrz SonkA                                                                       -     Main Roads
Other Roads
|M7 rK   JToken  Ri@r    National Capital
' District Capitals
;                                                                                                                                      0 Srp'Antoniro, ,ntoS  F  Towns and  Villages
|D-_  <  EX                    Sopoddillo Cays                                                -       District Boundarres
*PPicin  Garda                                                                                         -       Internattonal Boundaries
o   |                         4 ~~~~~~~~~Punta GordoJ
KILOMETERS  0       10     20      30     40     50
11600'
MILES  0           10         20          30
GUATEMALA                                                                                        HONDURAS
89000



