Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2959 BE
(Agricultural Credit and Export Development Project)
between
BELIZE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 19, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2959 BE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1988, between BELIZE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Japan a grant 
(the Japanese Grant) in an amount of $500,000 equivalent to assist in the financing of 
Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
Japanese Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Government 
of Japan;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Food and Agriculture 
Organization (FAO) a grant (the FAO Grant) to assist in the financing of Part C.2 of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement or other contractual 
arrangement (the FAO Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and FAO; 
and
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the United Kingdom Overseas 
Development Administration (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) to assist in the Financing of 
Part C.2 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement or other 
contractual arrangement (the ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ODA;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Central Bank, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Belize established by the 
Central Bank of Belize Act 1982;
(d)
"BCF" means the Belize Credit Facility, an account maintained by the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(e)
"Financial Intermediary" means DFC or any private or public bank or a 
financial institution or credit union duly established and operating under the laws of 
Belize which is designated by the Borrower with the Bank's approval, to make Sub-loans 
under the Project, and with which the Central Bank on behalf of the Borrower has 
entered into a Participating Agreement;
(f)
"DFC" means the Development Finance Corporation, a corporation of the 
Borrower established and operating pursuant to the Development Finance Corporation 
Act, published in Chapter 226 of the Laws of Belize 1980;
(g)
"BCB" means Banana Control Board, a body corporate established pursuant 
to Section 3 of the Banana Industry Act, Chapter 168 of the Laws of Belize;
(h)
"Sub-Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for the 
financing of investments, including the initial working capital requirements related 
to such investments, under an Investment Project;
(i)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 8 to 
this Agreement;
(j)
"Investment Enterprise" means a farmer or an agricultural or 
agro-industrial enterprise to which a Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has 
made a Sub-loan;
(k)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan  including the 
expansion or rehabilitation by an Investment Enterprise of an existing Investment 
Project;
(l)
"Charter" means the law, charter, or other legal instrument or document 
Page  3
establishing or governing the operations of a Financial Intermediary;
(m)
"Statement of Policies, Operating Regulations and Lending Procedures" 
means the statement of policies, operating regulations and lending procedures of the 
BCF approved by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(n)
"Belize dollars" or "BZ$" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(o)
"Banana Growers Association" means the Banana Growers Association 
established as a body corporate pursuant to Section 21 of the Banana Industry Act, 
Chapter 168 of the Laws of Belize 1980;
(p)
"Central Bank Act" means the Central Bank of Belize Act 1982; and
 
(q)
"Participating Agreement" means the participating agreement to be entered 
into between Central Bank on behalf of the Borrower and a Financial Intermediary 
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and "Facility Loan" means a loan or loans made by the Borrower to a Financial 
Intermediary pursuant to such Participating Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand dollars ($7,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part A of the Project with the assistance of the 
Central Bank and with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and 
managerial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part 
A of the Project;
(ii)
shall cause DFC to carry out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and managerial practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part B of the Project;
(iii)
shall cause BCB to carry out Part C.1 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and managerial practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other 
resources required for Part C.1 of the Project; and
(iv)
shall carry out Part C.2 of the Project as follows: (A) Parts C.2 
(a) and (c) through its Ministry of Agriculture; and (B) Part C.2 
(b) through its Ministry of Natural Resources; all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and managerial practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part C.2 of the Project;
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the Central Bank under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank setting forth the Central Bank's 
responsibilities in assisting the Borrower to carry out Part A of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with DFC under terms and 
conditions satisfactory  to the Bank setting forth DFC's responsibilities in  the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with BCB under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank setting forth BCB's  
responsibilities in the carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement and 
the agreements referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section in  such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or the agreements 
referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of this Section or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the  proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain an account in the Central Bank for 
purpose of Part A of the Project under terms and conditions satisfactory to  the Bank 
which shall include, inter alia, that:
(a)
the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Part A of the Project shall be 
credited for the discount of Facility Loans to Financial Intermediaries;
(b)
the principal and interest paid by the Financial Intermediaries in 
respect of the Facility Loans shall be credited to the BCF; and
(c)
the Central Bank shall operate the BCF in accordance with the  provisions 
Page  5
of Sections 3.04 through 3.08 of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to: 
(a)
enter into, on behalf of the Borrower, a participating agreement, the 
terms and conditions of which shall have been approved by the Bank, with each 
Financial Intermediary whereby the Borrower shall lend such amount or amounts of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated for Part A of the Project as the Financial Intermediary 
shall require to make Sub-loans. The Participating
Agreement shall, among other things, provide for: (i) a discount rate to be charged to 
the Financial Intermediary which shall be (1) for Facility Loans denominated in 
dollars a rate per annum equivalent to the interest rate specified in Section 2.05 of 
this Agreement; (2) for Facility Loans denominated in Belize dollars, a rate 
equivalent to the interest rate specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement plus one 
percentage point; (ii) repayment of principal by the Financial Intermediary in not 
more than 15 years including therein up to 4 years of grace; and (iii) the Financial 
Intermediary's obligation to follow and apply, in respect of Sub-loans, the procedures 
and the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement; and (b) 
maintain a manager responsible for the operation of the BCF with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Participating 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Participating Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall  otherwise 
agree: (i) Sub-loans will be made in accordance with (A) the  procedures and on the 
general terms and conditions, and the specific criteria  set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 8 to this Agreement, (B) the Statement of Policy, the Operating Regulations 
and the Lending Procedures; and (ii) the
Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any of the  provisions of 
the Statement of Policy, the Operating Regulations or the Lending Procedures.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to exercise the Borrower's 
rights in relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i)  protect the 
interests of the Bank and of the Borrower; (ii) comply  with its  obligations under 
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to 
the administration and operations of the BCF, and of the overall operations and 
financial condition of the Financial Intermediaries; (b) the Borrower shall cause the 
Central Bank to furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31 each year, commencing on 
March 30, 1989, evaluation reports on the carrying out of Part A of the Project 
including information on the status of the Sub-loans made by Financial Intermediaries 
under Part A of the Project; and (c) the Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to 
enable the Bank's representatives to inspect all records regarding the carrying out of 
Part A of the Project and any other relevant documents.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to review with the 
Bank not later than December 31 of each year, the interest rate charged to Investment 
Enterprises for Sub-loans with a view to determining the  appropriateness of such rate 
for lending under the Project; and (b) if by March 1 of each year, the Bank and the 
Borrower shall not have reached an agreement on the interest rate to be applied to 
Sub-loans, the Bank may refrain from approving or authorizing new Sub-loans pursuant 
to Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Parts B and C of the Project, 
(a) open a project account to be operated under terms and conditions  satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (b) deposit therein all amounts of counterpart funds as shall be 
required from time to time for the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part B of the Project, cause 
DFC to:
(a)
(i) carry out the action plan set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement; 
and (ii) not later than March 31, 1991 exchange views with the Bank on the progress 
made by DFC in the carrying out of such plan of action;
Page  6
(b)
maintain key staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank and inform the Bank of any changes in such key staff;
(c)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices its operation and financial condition;
(d)
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited 
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each year: (A) certified 
copies of said financial statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested;
(e)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request; and
(f)
carry out, and cause to be carried out, a plan of action, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the institutional strengthening of DFC, designed to achieve for DFC:
(i)
a yearly ratio of arrears of over twelve months to total 
outstanding debt owed to DFC not higher than 14%, 10,%, 6%, 3% and 
0% for fiscal years 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992, respectively;
(ii)
a yearly ratio of total collections of principal and interest on 
debt owed to DFC in a fiscal year not lower than 115%, 110%, 100% 
and 95% in fiscal years 1988, 1989, 1990 and 1991 and thereafter, 
respectively; and
(iii)
(A) the recovery, in accordance with a yearly schedule 
satisfactory to the Bank, of all debt owed to DFC in amounts 
greater than $25,000 equivalent per loan in arrears as of 
September 30, 1987 and (B) for purposes of this subparagraph (f) 
(iii) DFC shall not later than February 15, 1989 and every 
February 15 thereafter furnish to the Bank the recovery schedule 
to be implemented during the following year.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than March 31 of each year 
commencing March 31, 1989 furnish to the Bank a consolidated progress report in 
respect of all parts of the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish, or cause to be furnished to the 
Bank, not later than March 31 of each year, commencing March 31, 1989 the annual 
training program to be carried out during the following fiscal year in respect of 
Parts B and C of the Project; and (b) promptly upon completion of such programs, 
inform the Bank of the results thereof.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1988: (a) remove 
the export license requirements for exporters of citrus and citrus products; and (b) 
exempt land-base produced shrimp from the 5% export tax levied on such product.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall cause BCB: (a) to maintain a general manager 
and (b) to appoint, not later than December 31, 1988 a project manager, both with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall cause BCB: (a) not later than December 31, 
1988, to enter into an agreement with the Banana Growers Association providing terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the transfer of responsibilities for 
extension services for banana production to such association by not later than 
December 31, 1991; and (b) not to assign, amend, suspend, abrogate or waive or fail to 
enforce such agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C.2 (a) of the Project, 
not later than December 31, 1988, establish, and thereafter maintain, a cocoa advisory 
board, with powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  7
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting  
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
cause such records and accounts and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year to be audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing  principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)  
certified copies of the accounts for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 of the Loan 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
cause each Financial Intermediary to establish and maintain separate 
records and accounts to be used exclusively for the Project and to register in such 
accounts all its receipts and payments for, and in connection with, the carrying out 
of the Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting principles consistently 
applied; and
(b)
cause the Central Bank to inspect at least once every year the accounts 
referred to in this Section and the financial statements relating thereto and furnish 
to the Bank a report of such inspection of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Central Bank shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
The Central Bank Act or any Charter shall have been amended, suspended, 
Page  8
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations 
and financial condition of the Central Bank, or a Financial Intermediary.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Central Bank or a Financial 
Intermediary or for the suspension of their operations.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
the Central Bank;
(b)
the Statement of Policies, Operating Regulations and Lending Procedures 
for the BCF, satisfactory to the Bank, have been approved by the Borrower;
(c)
the agreement with DFC referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement 
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and DFC;
(d)
the Borrower shall have opened the account referred to in Section 3.09 of 
this agreement and deposited therein an amount in Belize dollars equivalent to 
$100,000; and
(e)
the Japanese Grant Agreement, the ODA Grant Agreement and the FAO Grant 
Agreement have been signed or other arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been 
made by the Borrower for the financing of the technical assistance requirements of the 
Project amounting to $700,000 equivalent.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the Central Bank and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Central 
Bank in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the agreement with DFC referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this 
agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DFC and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and DFC.
Page  9
Section 6.03. The date October 19, 1988, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Financial Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Belmopan
Belize
Telefax:
011-501-08-2886
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64l45 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BELIZE
By /s/ Edward Laing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Page  10
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of  the  Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans                           )     100% of the amount
                                         )     of the Sub-Loan
     (a)  Sub-loans             2,400,000)
          made by DFC                    )
                                         )
     (b)  Sub-loans made        4,600,000)
          by other Financial             )
          Intermediaries
(2)  Training                      200,000     100% of foreign
                                               expenditures
(3)  Goods, vehicles                     )     100% of foreign
     and materials                       )     expenditures and
                                         )     90% of local
     (a)  for all parts           200,000)     expenditures (off-
          of the Project                 )     the-shelf)
          other than C.1                 )
          thereof                        )
                                         )
     (b)  for Part C.1            100,000)
          of the Project                 )
(4)  Unallocated                  300,000
          TOTAL                 7,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 8 to this Agreement;
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after May 16, 1988;
(c)
in respect of a Facility Loan to be discounted from the BCF to any 
Financial Intermediary until such Financial Intermediary has been accepted by the Bank 
and the respective Participating Agreement has been entered into between such 
Financial Intermediary and the Borrower; and
(d)
in respect of Part C.1 of the Project unless the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and BCB.
4.
Notwithstanding the allocation of Loan proceeds to Subcategories 1 (a) and (b) 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that in the event that the Bank is satisfied 
that the amounts allocated to Subcategory 1 (b) will not be needed to meet such 
expenditures and that DFC is in compliance with the requirements of Section 3.10 of 
Page  11
this Agreement, the Bank may, at the request of and by notice to the Borrower, 
reallocate the proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to Subcategory 1 (b), to 
Subcategory 1 (a).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower in financing such 
productive facilities and resources in Belize as will contribute to the development of 
agricultural exports; and (ii) to strengthen selected financial institutions providing 
agricultural services or credit.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
The financing of Investment Projects through Sub-loans to Investment 
Enterprises.
Part B:
Strengthening of DFC
 
A program of institutional strengthening of DFC to expand and improve its 
efficiency for providing credit and its financial situation, especially in regard to 
liquidity and cash generation, including provision of vehicles, equipment and 
materials therefor, and training in banking practices and credit management.
Part C:
1.
BCB
 
A program of institutional strengthening, including provision of vehicles, 
equipment and materials required for banana development of BCB.
2.
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources:
 
(a)
A program of institutional strengthening of the Toledo District office of 
the Ministry of Agriculture in providing extension services for growers of cocoa, 
including the provision of equipment, materials, vehicles and tools therefor, and 
training to the Ministry's extension staff.
(b)
A program to strengthen the capacity of the Toledo District office of the 
Ministry of Natural Resources in the preparation of land surveys and titling of cocoa 
farms, including the provision of equipment and tools required for such program.
(c)
A program to strengthen the capacity of the Fisheries Department of the 
Ministry of Agriculture in providing extension services to shrimp farmers, including 
the provision of consultants' services and training therefor.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1993
through   April 15, 2005
325,000
Page  12
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.O4 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the 
balance outstanding on the 
Loan on the 
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but 
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes  of  this  Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions 
are modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right  of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such  amount. Upon the 
giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 
6.03 are  deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 8 to 
this Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan; (i) 
Page  13
have received no applications or requests under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of 
said paragraph: or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests. The 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to 
submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the 
Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall 
be cancelled."
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement for Parts of the Project other than Part A thereof.
 
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$75,000 or more, and vehicles shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Section I and II of the "Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Belize may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $75,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $250,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of three suppliers from countries eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to theBank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement and Section 3.02 (b) of the Project 
Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Procurement for Part A of the Project:
 
Contracts for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Sub-loans shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other 
Page  14
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods 
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor and in the case of 
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.
Section III.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and other evidence 
as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible 
expenditures. 
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first
arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the 
Page  15
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account for immediate
cancellation.
SCHEDULE 7
Action Plan for Part B of the Project
Actions
Date (by)
 
1.
Appoint a chief for DFC's Loan
June 30, 1988
Recovery Department.
2.
Furnish to the Bank the recom-
September 30, 1988
mendations of its study on the
staffing, salary levels and
organization of DFC, including
a plan of action for implementation
of such recommendations.
3.
Employ 2 consultants to assist DFC
December 31, 1988
in providing on-the-job training to
DFC staff in banking practices,
establishing a loan classification
system and an index of loan collection,
developing credit policies, and
preparing a credit manual.
4.
Carry out a detailed study on whether
December 31, 1989
to pursue branch decentralization
and resource mobilization and furnish
to the Bank the recommendations
thereof.
5.
Employ a computer system consulting
December 31, 1988
firm to review the software and
hardware needs of DFC.
6.
Commence implementation of the plan
December 31, 1988
of action referred to in paragraph 2
above.
7.
Adopt a loan classification system
September 30, 1989
and an index of loan collection
satisfactory to the Bank and implement
such system promptly thereafter.
SCHEDULE 8
Procedures for and Terms and
Conditions of Sub-loans
Page  16
Section I.
1.
General Terms and Conditions.
 
2.
No expenditure for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to 
the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information 
required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an 
Investment Project (other than an Investment Project for sugar development) in an 
amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum 
of $300,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the proceeds of which have 
been or are being used for financing goods and services directly and materially 
related to such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being subject to change from 
time to time as determined by the Bank, provided, however, that the first ten 
Sub-loans made under the Project shall not be free-limit Sub-loans regardless of their 
amount.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment 
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
Each request by the Central Bank for authorization to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 1992.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Intermediary shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Financial 
Intermediary, including, in the case of any Sub-loan, the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate requests;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation therein, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
Page  17
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; 
and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Financial Intermediary.
Section II.
Specific Terms and Conditions.
1.
Crops eligible for financing under Sub-loans.
 
Each Sub-loan may finance Investment Projects for the development of, or 
agro-industrial services for, any of the following crops: (a) bananas, citrus, cocoa, 
shrimp and other crops with export potential and (b) sugar, if the Investment Project 
is approved by the Bank.
2.
Currency of Sub-loans
 
Sub-loans may be denominated in dollars or Belize dollars.
3.
Amount of Sub-loan
 
Each Sub-loan may finance: (a) up to 85% of the estimated cost of the Investment 
Project in respect of Sub-loans made by DFC provided, however, that such percentage 
shall be lowered to 70% promptly after DFC begins to accept deposits; and (b) up to 
70% of the estimated cost of the Investment Project in respect of Sub-loans made by 
other Financial Intermediaries. The balance between the amount of the Sub-loan and the 
cost of the Investment Project, shall be financed by the Investment Enterprise from 
other sources, including an amount of not less than 15% from its own resources.
4.
Repayment Period
 
The repayment period will not exceed fifteen years including a grace period not 
to exceed four years.
5.
Interest Rate
 
The Investment Enterprise shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding: (a) in respect of Sub-loans made by DFC at a rate 
sufficient to cover at least the rate charged to DFC pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) (i) 
of this Agreement and a spread for DFC of at least 4 percentage points; and (b) in 
respect of Sub-loans made by other Financial
Intermediaries at a rate sufficient to cover at least the rate charged to the 
Financial Intermediaries pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement plus a 
spread for the Financial Intermediary not to exceed 6 percentage points.
