Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE C0PY
Rer)ort. No. :1084.,-ZA     Tvpe.  (SARI                Report No. 10843-ZA
Tit,le:  ERDCATTON REHAPTT,TTATTC)N PROJE
Author: KAGTA, R
Ext.. : 333 14 Roo.m:J111082 Dept. :AF6PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPTMBER 22, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
jtheir oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(May 1992)
Currency Unit    =    Zambian Kwacha (K)
KI        =    US$0.0051
US$1.00          =    K195
SDR1.00    =    K282
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
I January to 31 December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB/ADF                              African Development Bank/African Development Fund
CDC                                   Curriculum Development Centre
CSO                                   Central Statistics Office
CTB                                   Central Tender Board
DEO                                   District Education Officer
EC                                    European Community
ECZ                                   Examinations Council of Zambia
EMU                                   Education Materials Unit
FINNIDA                               Finnish International Development Agency
FNDP                                  Fourth National Development Plan
GRZ                                   Government of the Republic of Zambia
IBRD                                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                                   International Development Association
IMF                                   International Monetary Fund
MOE                                   Ministry of Educatic n
MOF                                   Ministry of Finance
MPU                                   Micro-Projects Unit
MWS                                   Ministry of Works and Supplies
NESIS                                 National Education Statistical Information Systems (UNESCO Project)
NIPA                                  National Institute for Public Administration
NISTCOL                               National In-Service Training College
NORAD                                 Norwegian Agency for International Development
ODA                                   (British) Overseas Development Agency
OPEC                                  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PTA                                   Parent Teachers' Association
SAP                                   Social Action Program
SHAPE                                 Self-Help Action Plan for Education
SIDA                                  Swedish International Development Authority
SRP                                   Social Recovery Project
SRPU                                  Social Recovery Project Unit (also Social Recovery Fund)
TTCS                                  Teacher Training Colleges
UNDP                                  United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO                                United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF                                United Nations Children's Fund
UNZA                                  University of Zambia
ZEMCC                                 Zambia Education Materials Coordinating Committee
ZEMP                                  Zambia Education Materials Project
ZEPH                                  Zambia Education Publishing House
ZEPIU                                 Zambia Education Projects Implementation Unit



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBUC OFZAMB1IA
EDUCAllO REHUUDLrA3=NPRJE
rAFF APPRAISAL1WPO
Cotntfls
Ini               ......................................... E
BASIC DATA SHEET.................................... i
CREDITAND PROJECQMT                     .................. ............ ii
I.INTRODUCTION
A.  Overview .................................... 1
B.    The Economic and Policy Environment ........           ..............  I
IL.    TIE EDUCATIONS                ................................ 5 
A.  Summary ..........................5 S
B.    Basic Characteristics of the Sector ..........................  5
C.  Key Issues in Education ............................ 7
The Financing of Education ..........................  7
Quality Issues                                8........            8
Access to Education ..............................  14
Management, Planning and Policy Issues .................  16
Pluralism in Educational Provision .....................  18
D.    Government Strategy for Education ........................  18
E.    Bank Group Support .................................  19
F.    The Role of Donors  .................................  20
III. THE  .21
A.    Project Origin .....................................  21
B.    Project Objectives and Description  .........................  21
C.    Project Components  .................................  22
Education Quality Improvement .......................  22
Rehabilitation and Construction .......................  25
Planning and Management ..........................  27
Iv. ERO.BCT COSTS, PINANCIN-G, MANAGEMMWN AND EMPLESENTAllON30
A.    Project Costs and Financing .............................  30
B.    Procurement ......................................  33
C.    Disbursements .....................................  36
D.    Project Management and Implementation .....................  38
E.    Reporting and Monitoring ..............................  41
F.    Accounts and Audits .................................  43
G.    Status of Credit Preparation .............            ..........  43
V. BENEFTTS ANDRISKS ............................ 44
VI.   AGREEMENl  ASSURANCES AND                                         .......   . 47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



TA1BE AND 11j1E
Table 4.1:    Project Cost Summary By Projec Component  .................  30
Table 4.2:    Cost Summary By Summary Account .......................  31
Table 4.3:    Financing Plan .............    .......................   32
Table 4.4:    Procurement Arrangements ..........                  ...................  33
Table 4.5:    Disbursement Categories ...........                ....................  37
Figure l.1:   Education and Growth  .          ................................  3
Figure2.1: EducationPyramid .................................... 6
Figure 2.2:   Women and Education .............                   ...................   12
Figure 2.3:   School Progression  .        .................................   15
Figure 4.1:   Project Management and Implementation .....................  38
Annex l(a):  Enrollments
Annex  0(b):  Expenditures
Annex 1(c):  Teachers
Annex l(d):  Books
Annex 2:       Detailed Project Costs
Annex 3:       Forecasts of Expenditures and Disbursements
Annex 4:       Implementation Schedule
Annex 5:       Supervision Schedule
Annex 6:       Performance Indicators
Annex 7:       Titles to be Produced 1993-1997
Annex 8:       Policy Studies
Annex 9:       Technical Assistance
Annex 10:    Operations of the SRP
Annex 11:    Role of Donors in Education
Annex 12:    Gender Sensitivity Indicators
Anrax 13:    Beneficiary Assessment
Annex 14:    List of Documents in the Project File
MAP   IBRD No. 11542 R
This repot is baed on the lind     of p-apprais  an apprm issl     whih vidse Zambia in Januaqr and
April, 1992. Mh pr`appaisal mision compisd Mess./MsdAM   R. I     (Mision Leader and Education
Specials); S. Jozensen (Economi); M. Mulatu (Fianil Aalyst); MJ. Kel (Education Specia); W. Hoppes
(Education Pn;     o rsprentins SIDA); 0. Bed  (Examnt  Specialist); Leo Sink (Archtc) an Ann
Jonson Cretbook Speciali). The  ppis  mison comprisd Musr./Mosdames R. Ksgia (Mision Leader); M.
Multu; M.J. Key; W. Hcpeon; E. Ohwkia (EducationWD Specias); an rpntatdves fim PHMNDA.
ODA, WHO, INESCO and UNICEP. Stem Jorgem  and Meadmn Mulau astd  Ruth Kaa in th writk-4 of
tih rqpot. Jan Whington provided swctarialpp. Meadaum  C. Aliso and E. Kin ar tw pee  evioewe.
Mesrs. M. . yinelman is the lead advisor, R. Oawe th Managing DivWo Chi and Stephen Dennig, Department
Director.



4-
BASIC DATA SHEET
Population (1992) ................................ 8.2 million
Population growth rate (1980-1990) .                       3.2%
Area ....................................... 752,600 sq. km.
GNP per capita (1990/91) ...........  US$290
Ad-alt literacy rate (1985)
Total ............ 76%
Female ..................... ............. 67%
School Enrollments (1990)
Primary education (grades 1-7) ....     .......  1,452,443
Gross enrollment ratio ...........  88.4%
Percent of which is female (1989) .....    ...... 48.2%
Secondary education (grades 8-12) ...........          161,349
Percent of which is female (1988) .................. 37.3%
Enrollment in Basic Schools. (grade 8-9)
(not included with secondary) ...........  50,000
Education Budget
GRZ expenditure on education as percent
of total GRZ expenditure 1990 .....      ......  9.1%
as percent of GDP ...........  2.4%
Source: GRZ: Central Statistics Office
World Bank: World Development Report 1991



-ii-
ZAMIA
CREDf AND PR=Z
fBorrower:                    Government of Zambia
Benefiinary:                  Ministry of Education
Credit Aniqnt:                SDR 22.2 million (US$32 million equivalent)
TIcmi:                        Standard IDA Terms with 40 years maturity
tQSiv ObestlygI: The project would support Govermnent in its efforts to reverse the
continued deterioration of the education system and to sustain education revitalization in a
context of severe fiscal austerity. Specific project objectives are to: (a) arrest further decline
in education quality, starting at the primary level, by supporting a series of interventions that
will boost learning achievements; (b) increase access to education and improve the learning
environment through rehabilitation and construction of physical facilities; and (c) increase the
capacity of the education sector to manage an increasingly complex sector in a context of
greatly circumscribed resources through the strengthening of education management and
planning and through improvements in Ministry of Education's capacity for policy formulation
and analysis.
Prject Descripgon: The project has three interrelated components. The first focuses on
qualitative renewal and would support the provision of learning and teaching materials and
improvements in examination quality and management. The second component consists of
rehabilitation and construction of physical facilities in primary schools, which would increase
access and improve the education environment. TIe third is a lnn d
component which would strengthen professional and administrative support to teachers and to
schools; establish an information management system including a system for maintaining
teachers' records; and undertake a series of policy studies that are essential to planning further
development of the sector. Project conditionality would ensure increased budgetary allocadon
to education, while project implementation would buttress Government efforts to involve the
non-government sector in education delivery. Given the immense gap between the needed
investments in the sector and the resources available, the proposed interventions were selected
on the basis of their catalytic impact on education revitalization.
ProZt Renefits: 'MThe benefits of the project would be long-ter  improvements i human
capital through improved access to better quality education. The immediate beneficiaries of
the project would be about 1.5 million primary school pupils and about 5,000 education
managers. Learning achievements would be boosted through the provision of about 5.3
million textbooks, teachers' guides and basic teaching materials. The elimination or triple and
.quadruple shifts through rehabilitation and construction of physical facilities would improve
the learning environment. Through gradual elimination of the botdenecks at the Examinations
Council, delays in start-up of secondary school classes would be eliminated. The examination



-iii-
reform measures would increase the leverage of examinations to exert positive influence on
the learning process. Management at the school level would be improved by training of head-
teachers and education offlcers and strengthening of their support system through
improvements at the inspectorate. In addition, the project would:
(a,  support the economic rect very process both because it would strengthen the human
resource base that would catalyze economic growth and because it is a powerful socio-
political instrument for maintaining popular support for the adjustment program;
(b)  provide inputs that would stem further erosion of the sector and start a process of
sectoral policy reform that would help the sector become self-sustaining; and
(c)  strengthen local capacity for research and analysis, through the studies component.
Environmental Impact: The credit finances school inputs and infrastructure rehabilitation
with minor effects on the environment. The credit will also finance the construction of 20
new schools, for which sites have been set aside as part of the urban planning process and the
supporting infrastructure already put in place. Government has a well established national
building construction and water and sanitation installation code which is environmentally
sensitive and which responds to the Bank's environmental concerns. The selection and
appraisal criteria for inclusion of schools to be rehabilitated includes environmenftal concerns.
The provision of water and sanitation facilities and the health education sub-component would
reduce the risk of diarrheal diseases and have positive effects on the environment.
Gender-Specific Impact: Even though enrollment rates have remained relatively constant
between the genders, girls have suffered disproportionately from the precipitous drop in
access and quality. This can be seen from the higher rate of progression and better
examination results for boys. It is expected that the improvements in access and quality that
would be brought about by this project would also have a greater effect on girls' education,
with all the related benefits that this would have. The project addresses gender-specific
concerns by (a) supporting improvements in the sanitary facilities to take into account the
special needs of mature adolescent girls; (b) providing gender-sensitivity training for
educa' n managers; and (c) introducing gender-appraisal criteria in the development of
textbojks and the setting of examination questions. In addition, the project would support a
specific study on gender issues in educatmn.
Pomev Dimension: The project would contribute to poverty alleviation in various ways.
The construction of new schools in low-income peri-urban areas of Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola
would increase educational provision for children from poor families and would reduce the
need for suwh children to travel long distances in search of school admission. Since schools
in poor urban areas suffer more than those in better-off areas in terms of overcrowding and of
triple/quadruple sessions and in terms of closures because of cholera in the community,
considerable benefits will accrue to the poorer communities by targeting extension and
rehabilitation work for schoo.s to these areas. Providing educational materials, strengthening
the administrative and professional competence of school heads, and facilitating regular and
meaningful interactions between inspectors and schools have potential for effecting signiflcant
quality improvements in schools in rural and poor urban areas. In addition, the project would
reinforce other ongoing efforts to alleviate poverty, particularly through the employment
possibilities for unskilled iabor in poor urban locations while school construction,



-iv-
rebabilitation or extension is underway. In a broader perspective, the project would bring
long-term benefits in human capital that would ontribute to economic development and a
reduction in overall poverty levels.
Prt'lK3Hiska: There are two main risks associated with this project. The first is that
Government would allocate insufficient resources to primary education either because of a
deterioration in the macro-economic sitr.P3on or because resources are diverted to post-
primary education. This risk is min >Led by (a) the conditionallty atached to the Project;
and (b) the diversification of the revenue base of government in the course of adjustment.
TH6 second risk is delayed project implementation due to weak implementation capacity.
This risk is minimized by (a) management training for core impletnentation agencies; (b)
targeted tecmnical assistance for the implementation of them; (c) the relative simplicity of the
Project; and (d) substantial donor involvement in the Project, which would provide more
broad-based implementation support.
Protect Cost sumr    bw Prolect CenA It
(UrS$ OGs)
Totat
LmL    UcaIin          Ilu          LL       5911
A. IMPROVEMENTS IN QUALITY
1.  Instructional Materfals              898        8,055      8,954          90       25
2. Examination Inputs                     562        2,423     2.986          81        a
B.  REHABILITATION & CONSTRUCTION           7.122       6.616    13,738           48       38
C. PUNNING AND MANAGEMENT
1.  Head-teacher Trafning                 705         340      1,044          33        3
2.  Inspectors' Course                    335          272       608          45        2
3.  Institutional Support                 453        3,469     3,922          88       11
4. Teachers Records                       177          599       776          77        2
5.  InformatIon Management                 21           87       108          81        0
6. Najor Studies                          650          975      1,625         60        1
O.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT                      1.515          681     2,196          31        6
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                   12.          23.18    35.95
PHYSICAL OONTINGENCIES                1- ml        2,296     3;328         -9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   1,409        2,095     3.505          60       10
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        14879        7910      42.789          65      11



S-V
Elnancing Plan
(US$ million)
Lal Eoreign lnl
Zambia                                 5.9
GRZ                    3.3    1.9
Communities            0.7    0.0
IDA                      9.3   22.6  31.9
Co-financiers            16     3 4
Total                   14.9   27.9  42.8
JUA Disbursement Schedule
US$ million
hisaI Year
i199  1224  l99S  19   1222  122 
Amount Disbursed    1.9  3.8   9.0   9.3   6.7   1.3
Cumulative Amount   1.9  5.7  14.7  24.0  30.7  32.0
Percentage of Total   6   18   46    75    96   100



A. Ovysvew
1.1       The education sector in Zambia is in crisis: crisis of quality indicated by shortages of
education materials, crumbling physical infrastructure, and low morale among education
personnel; crisis of access because the resilience of the sector to expand without new investments
reached its limits at about 1985; and crisis of financing as a result of protracted resource
starvation. The underlying cause of the crisis is continued dependence of the education system on
the State as the main source of education finance during a period of prolonged economic decline
and fast population growth. As a result, an inherent tension has developed between the need to
expand education provision on the one hand and the need to reduce expenditures on the other,
leading to a steep decline in Government spending on education exemplified by: (a) a decline in
real incomes of teachers - the starting salary of a primary school teacher lost about 40 percent of
its purchasing power between 1971-85, and by the end of 1989, it had fallen to a quarter of its
1985 value; (b) the crowding out of virtually all non-salary expenditures - primary education
teachers' salaries absorb about 97 percent of the primary education recurrent budget; and (c)
extreme shortage of physical facilities, to the point where many schools teach in triple and
quadruple shifts.
1.2       Revitalization of the education system entails making fundamental shifts in:
(a) education goals and strategies, in order to reconcile fundamental needs of the sector with the
fiscal reality; (b) education management, in order to improve education delivery services and
increase efficiency in the utilization of resources; and (c) education financing, in order to increase
the level of resources to the sector and to target resources to priority areas. Government has
taken important steps by beginning to redirect a larger share of public resources to education. In
addition, Government, with support from resources available under this project's PPF, has
prepared a long-term strategy for the development of education in Zambia. This project would
support an investment program which would strengthen these efforts and help prevent further
deterioration of education quality, especially at the primary level, and at the same time lay the
foundation for long-term revitalization of the education sector.
B. The Economic and Policy Environment
1.3       Zambia covers an area of 752,600 square kilometers and has a population of 8.2
million in 1992, growing at an average of 3.2 percent per year. With almost 50 percent of its
population living in urban areas, Zambia has the second highest urbanization rate in sub-Saharan
Africa. Despite steep economic decline during the last 15 years, Zambia has greater economic
potential than many of its neighbors. The country i± vell endowed with rich agricultural and
mineral (mainly copper) wealth, but its immense agiicultural potential remains largely under-
exploited.
1.4       EcQnomic Performance: Zambia's current economic difficulties stem in part from
the country's dependence on copper. Rising copper prices helped the economy to grow steadily at
an average rate of 4 percent per annum during the first decade after independence. Since 1974,
however, protracted decline in prices, in conjunction with a decline in copper output, contributed
to a fall of more than one-third in per capita GDP. Instead of taking steps to halt the decline by
diversifying production through market-oriented investments and pricing structures, policies were
geared towards maintaining consumption in anticipation of an eventual upturn in the copper
market. As low copper prices persisted, large and unsustainable external and internal imbalances



-2-
developed, savings and investment ratios fll, and external debt rose sharply. Effective use of
existing productive capacity was hampered by extensive Government trade controls and by the
presence of a large parastatal sector that dominated most areas of the economy.
1.5       Several attempts were made to restructure the economy, but because of poor policy
Implementation, weaker than anticipated copper prices and, in some instances, shortfalls in donor
assistance, none met with lasting success. In 1987, Government suspended the Bank/Fund-
supported adjustment program on the grounds that it generated excessive economic and political
instability. Following the default on servicing IBRD and IDA debt, the Bank suspended
disbursements in May 1987. By late 1988, Zambia was facing a rapidly deteriorating fiscal
position, accelerating inflation, chronic shortages of foreign exchange and a proliferation of black-
market activities. Severe difficulties were also encountered in servicing external debt obligations,
much of which had been contracted on commercial terms. Government resumed its dialogue with
the Bank in late 1988, after which some progress was made in liberalization of the exchange and
trade systems and reduction in price controls. In the run up to the general elections, however,
public expenditure again went out of control, mainly because of large increases in fiscal subsidies
for mealie meal and large salary awards to the public sector, including teachers. In 1991 inflation
amounted to 118 percent. Donors became disenchanted with the uncertain political commitment
to reform and slowed down on balance of payment support to the point where Government ran up
arrears to the Bank Group. The Bank once again suspended disbursements in September 1991.
1.6       Recent Developments: The October 1991 political transition gave the new
Government a strong mandate for reform and put the country on a critical threshold for reversing
economic decline. A determined start has been made in the 1992 budget: Government has
increased social sector expenditures, a civil service reform program has been started, most price
controls have been removed, and subsidies on maize have been sharply reduced. In March 1992,
Zambia cleared its arrears to the Bank Group.
1.7       The medium-term strategy expressed in the current PFP (1992-94) aims at
establishing macroeconomic stability in order to reverse the long economic decline and restore the
momentum of growth. The program objectives are to: (a) achieve real GDP growth rates of 4
percent by 1994; (b) achieve an increase in gross investment from an estimated 13.5 percent of
GDP in 1991 to 20.5 percent by 1994; (c) reduce inflation from about 100 percent in 1991 to
about 5 percent by 1994; and (d) cut current non-interest expenditure as a percent of GDP from
16 percent in 1991 to 14 percent in 1992 but increase real recurrent departmental charges.
1.8       S!"tion Sto - Macro-E-conomic Unkages: Education is a sine gU nn of
economic development in that it is both an instrument for catalyzing and sustaining economic
growth and a direct means of reducing poverty: schooling raises farm productivity, while female
education is inversely related to fecundity and infant mortality. The evidence justifying
investment in education is compelling. For example, an increase of one year in average years of
education is associated with a 3 percent rise in GDP in many countries; an additional one year of
schooling raised farm output by nearly 2 percent in the Republic of Korea and by 5 percent in
Malaysia; an extra one year of mothers' educatien has been assorL . 'ed with a 9 percent decrease
in under-five mortality, while studies in Peru indicate that education is more critical to earnings
than physical capital. In addition, a common characteristic of the fastest growing economies is
accumulation in human capital. Africa has not reaped as high benefits from education as would
have been expected, in part due to unfavorable local conditions including a poor policy
environment, a lack of complementary inputs, and inadequate institutional and managerial
capacity. Some of these problems are addressed in the project.



-3-
1.9         Zambia is on the
threshold of major economic and              POLICY DISTORTION, EDUCATION AND GROWTH
policy reform which, in synergy               IN GDP, 60 DEVELOPING COJNTRIES 1935-87
with increased investment in                GaP GROWTH Ipercenti
education, should increase the            6                                        5 53
benefits of education and
promote faster economic
growth. The relationship                    4.;;I.._........                            ..
between education and economic            3. ........
growth  is shown  and  discussed          2                    .. ........................  ......... ...
further in r'gure 1.1. The                                     . .                       .........
Government recognizes that                         Low Education           High Education
education is central to econon;ic                 AVG. YEARS OF PRIM & SEC SCHOOLING
recovery and has put the                                HIghb Dltortlon  MLoawOftoltion
revitalization of the education
Sosrcg  ~Iid   e,ei(memt 11Jlo,0 191 o
system high on the reform        s ,.., p.r. oln .., 3see II
High 4I,t.,tIoe: .0    ..   rm
agenda. This will ensure that
the human resource base                  Improvements in education are especially imnporant for an
continues to grow duiing the          adjusting economy such as Zambia's that is improving its
transition period and that when       macroeconomic framework. This graph shows comparisons of rates
the economy recovers, this base       of economic growth over the period 1965-87 for countries with high
thel beonomyfrcovenysrs,g thiobs      and low economic distortion and high and low educational status.
will be sufficiently strong to        High economic distortion is seen in a country with a poor
sustain further economic              macroeconomic framework, and vice versa. Tle graph shows that
growth. An added reason for           countries with poor performance in both macroeconomics and level
investing in education is that it     of education only grew by an averago of 3.06 percent over that
supports the adjustment program       period. Countries with higher levels of education but with highly
in that highly visible                distorted economic policies, as weil as those with lower levels of
education but with fewer policy distortions (e.g., through adjustment)
improvements in, and increased        did better, growing at 3.8 percent. But those countries that had both
access to, education will have a      higher levels of education and fewer distortions grew at 5.5 percent
positive impact on the poor,          per year. While this is based on historical cross-sectional data, it
who would otherwise be                does demoratrate the very important synergetic effects between
negatively affected by the short-     improvements in both macroeconomic performance and education.
term effects of adjustment.                         Fsgure 1.1: Education and Growth
1.10        Economic reforms
that are of direct relevance to the education sector include: (a) a shift in the patterns of
expenditure towards the social sectors and recurrent departmental charges. Starting in 1991,
Government has increased the budgetary allocation to education, and agreement has been reached
to increase it further to reach not less than 15 percent of the total Government budget by 1995
and to increase the share of the budget going to primary education to 40 percent over the same
period; (b) civil service reform that will reduce the number of civil servants and create i.n
environment for increased motivation and retention. Teachers comprise about 35 percent of the
public service, and improvements in their working conditions as part of this reform will have
direct education quality outcomes; and (c) market liberalization and he encouragement of private
erterprises. An improved environment for private sector participation in education will relieve
pressure on the Government education budget and increase resources available to the sector -
immediate benefits are expected from increased privatization of the publishing sector and frem
increased privatization of schools; and (d) reduction in subsidies. The reduction in overall
subsidies will release more iunds for use in the core sectors identified by Government, one of



-4-
which is education (see Annex 3). In addition, the phased elimination of subsidies in post-
primary education will increase the level of cost recovery at tertiary and secondary level
institutions and remove some of the equity and efficiency imbalances that currently exist in the
financing of education.
1.11      IBe Education Rehabilitation ProJect: The economic context for rehabilitating the
education sector implies qualitative and quantitative growth in a context of austerity. The fiscal
and monetary restraint that the economic situation demands necessitates prudence in exoenditures
and judicious use of available resources. Government is giving priority to primary education
because: (a) unless the foundation on which education is built is strong, more resources will need
to be spent at higher levels in order to make up for deficiencies at the foundation; (b) in the
foreseeable future, primary education will be terminal for the majority of Zambians; it is
important, therefore, to ensure that the quality is sufficiently strong to sustain permanent literacy
and numeracy and to help individuals impact on their environment; and (c) it is the level that has
been most severely affected by the decline in education expenditures.
1.12      This is the context within which this project is conceived. Revitalization of the
education sectc'r would s ipport the economic recovery process and later help to fuel and support
further growth. While primarily targeted at primary education, the interventions selected for this
project have catalytic impact on the whole sector individually, in synergism with one another, and
with other parallel donor programs; and they meet the most critical immediate needs of the sector,
while at the same time laying the foundations for sustainable development of education.



-5-
II. THEEDUCATION SCO
A. SummMY
2.1       The fundamental issue that this project addresses is how to turn an education system
that is in steep decline into a potent instrument for personal and socio-economic development
within a context of severe financial constraints. A set of low-cost, high-impact interventions have
been selected which have a catalytic impact on the learning process and which will arrest further
decline and promote sustainable development of the sector. The interventions are intended to:
(a) stem further deterioration of education quality, for example, through provision of learning
materials and rehabilitation of physical facilities; (b) remove crucial bottlenecks in the system, for
example through better management of teachers' records and improvements in the processing of
the examinations; (c) support the gains made and promote further improvements, for example,
through training of head-teachers and inspectors and examination feedback system; and (d) lay
firm foundations for long-term development of the sector, for example, through support for the
policy studies and improvements in education management.
2.2       In the Fourth National Development Plan (FNDP, 1989-93), Government has
acknowledged the need to fundamentally revise education strategies and aspirations. The main
goal for education in the FNDP is to arrest the continued decline of the education system and to
broaden access to quality education within available resources. The Government is committed to
redirecting resources to rehabilitation of existing physical structures and improving education
quality at all levels through the provision of learning materials and increased school maintenance
funds.
B. Basic Characterlstics of the Sector
2.3       The most remarkable feature of the Zambia education system is its resilience in
providing basic education services in the face of daunting problems. Social demand for education
seems to have increased as the economy declined, and communities have taken on an increasing
share of the burden for providing school facilities and resources as the Government's ability to do
so weakened. This fact and the renewed political commitment to education give cause for
confidence that the prospects for rehabilitating Zambia's educational system are strong.
2.4       Zambia's formal education system has a 7 - 2 - 3 - 4 structure (seven years of
primary education, two years of junior secondary, three years of senior secondary and four years
of university). The 1978 Ed'ication Reform Proposal recommended that universal education be
extended from seven to nine years. While this proposal has proved to be financially unaainable,
communities have extended about 400 primary schools to Grade 9, with the result that a certain
amount of structural and pedagogical overlap now exists between upper primary and lower
secondaryl/. Transition to higher educational levels is determined by national competitive
examinations at the end of Grades 7, 9 and 12. In principle, there is automatic promotion from
one grade to the next within the primary, junior secondary and senior secondary systems; but in a
number of rural areas, progression from lower to upper primary (from Grade 4 to 5) depends on
performance in a locally set competitive examination. The primary school gross enrollment ratio
J1 In this document, primaiy school refers to Grades 1-7 and secondary school to Grades 8-12.



-6-
is 88.4 percent, the transition from primary to junior high school, 27.1 percent, and from junior
to senior high school, about 38 percent. On the whole, primary education has high internal
efficiency, with repetition rates and teacher attriton rates of less than 5 percent. At the same
time, as can be seen from the education pyramid (Figure 2.1 below), primary education is
terminal for the majority of pupils, and girls drop out in larger numbers than boys throughout the
cycle.
2.5       At the end of 1991,
the formal education system                    ZAMBIA l980 - '1989l90
comprised some 1.91 million                GRADEIGENDER DISTRIBUTION
individuals as follows: 1.6
million pupils in primary
schools, 220,000 students in                      _ MALES 1990    M FEMALES 1990
secondary schools, 4,600                              MALES 1989190   CO FEMALES 1999190
students in teacher training          GRADE
colleges, 7,300 university         HIGHER ED
students, 34,000 primary school            ELEi_
teachers, and 5,500 secondary
school teachers. Institutionally,           SEV 
there were about 3,500 primary               F
schools, 500 of which end after             T             -        i i  i -
Grade 4; 165 conventional                        300  200  iao   a   lio  2i0  300
secondary schools running from   somic.: MOE StulliCIll. 199112
Grade 8 to Grade 12; about 400        ryPIla3 dai tase lot 1980 & 1909
basic schools running from     I_I
Grade 1 to Grade 9; 11 primary              Figure 2.1: Education Pyramid
teacher training colleges; two
secondary teacher training
colleges; and two universities. Enrollment data are given in Annex l(a).
2.6       The majority of the schools are Government-owned, -managed and -financed; but at
the secondary level there has been a long tradition of participation by th-e churches in educational
provision through church-owned and -operated schools that receive grants from Government.
About 20 percent of secondary schools and 40 percent of the teacher training colleges C(TCs) are
church-affiliated. In the last six months, Government has invited grant-aided agencies and
voluntary organizations to increase their participation in education by taking over the management
of some Government primary and secondary schools. Private sector involvement in educational
provision is minimal, although it is Government policy to facilitate the establishment of more
private schools. From 1982 to 1991, responsibility for formal education was spread across two
ministries, one dealing with primary and secondary schools (and with other areas such as youth,
culture and sport) and the other with teacher education, the universities and technical education.
As of January 1992, responsibility for schools, teacher education and the universities was
entrusted to a single ministry, the Ministry of Education (MOE), while a separate ministry, the
Ministry of Science, Technical Education and Vocational Training, has responsibility for
vocational and technical education and for the promotion of science and technology.
2.7       School enrollments expanded rapidly in the 1970s and 1980s, but because of
persistently poor economic performance, there was no commensurate development of the
educational infrastructure. This led to a severe strain on a system that had not had the
opportunity to consolidate after massive post-independence growth. Prolonged resource starvation



-7-
and rapid population growth have combined to bring the education sector to a crisis state
characterized by rapidly deteriorating facilities, absence of many essential educational materials
and other inputs, and a low level of morale among education personnel. The problems have been
sufficiently overwhelming to overshadow efforts to develop well-articulated and economically
feasible plans for the revitalization and integrated development of the education sector.
C. Ken Issues in Education
The Flinancine of Education
2.8       The over-arching problem in education in Zambia is the immense gap between the
need to provide broad-based access to quality education and the resources available to meet this
need. The underlying cause of the gap is the heavy dependence of the education system on the
State as the main source of education finance during a period of prolonged economic decline,
coupled with public expenditure policies that diverted resources away from the social sectors.
There are three main problems in the financing of education: (a) the decline in education
expenditures has been so massive that the system can no longer be sustained at its present level of
funding - the result has been decline in quality and in access at all levels of the education
system; (b) the functional distribution of the education budget is weighted too much in favor of
salaries and student welfare, crowding out quality-enhancing inputs such as learning materials;
and (c) primary education has suffered the main decline in expenditures.
2.9       Decreasing fiscal resources, mainly as a result of economic decline that followed the
loss of copper revenues, coupled with a lack of sustained policy adjustment, resulted in a sharp
decline in real Government expenditures between 1981 and 1991. In 1989, public spending stood
at less than half what it had been in 1981. The social sectors (including education, health,
employment and social development) bore a disproportionately large share of the decline.
Between 1985-1990, for example, discretionary expenditure (total expenditure net of payments)
declined in real terms by 25 percent, but expenditures on education declined in real terms by 42.3
percent.
2.10      Zambia's current commitment to education, as measured by levels of expenditure, is
much lower than that of other countries in the region, even those with weaker economies. In
1980, spending on education was about 4.5 percent of GNP, as compared to 3.5 in Malawi, 4.2
in Tanzania, 6.9 in Kenya and 7.1 in Botswana. By 1990, this figure had dropped to 2.5 percent,
one of the lowest education expenditure levels in the world and a level only slightly larger than
the 2 percent of GNP that should be spent on primary education alone if universal primary
education is to be achieved. Between 1985-1990, education's share of total public expenditure
fell from 13.4 percent to 8.4 percent, a figure well below the median education share of public
expenditures for low-income countries, which is about 15.3 percent.
2.11      Primary education bore the brunt of the resource decline. At the same time as the
overall education budget was shrinking, the share of the education expenditure on primary schools
declined from 42.1 percent in 1985 to a record low of 29.0 percent in 1990 before rising to 31.4
percent in 1991. Teachers' salaries absorb 97 percent of primary education recurrent budget,
leaving virtually no resources for quality-enhancing inputs such as learning materials or school
maintenance. A recent analysis of the education sector proposes that in order to reverse the
decline in educational expenditures it will be necessary to mainain an annual growth rate in real
education expenditures of at least 2.7 percent over the next decade.



-8-
2.12      In 1990, secondary student allowances and subsidies accounted for 24 percent of the
education recurrent budget, the second largest expenditure item after salaries. Although only one-
third of the students are boarders, secondary school boarding costs account for 48 percent of the
total running costs of secondary schools. Students pay about K600 per year2/ for the cost of
secondary education, while GRZ pays seven times that amount to maintain boarding schools. The
total expenditure per university student in 1990 was K62,670, compared to K527 per primary
student, making the cost of educating a university student 120 times that of educating a primary
school pupil. University students are expected to pay K4,300 per year, or about nine percent of
the costs of their education. It is estimated that parents contribute about K1,000 or about double
the per-student Government contribution for the direct and indirect (uniforms) costs of primary
education. The equity and efficiency issues associated with the financing of education would be
addressed in the studies supported under this project. These studies would also explore the
viability of non-government sources of financing education.
2.13      To reverse the regressive trend in the financing of education and to make the sector
once more self-sustaining, it will be necessary to: (a) reorder fiscal priorities at the intersectoral
and intrasectoral level by increasing the allocation of the public budget to education and to
primary education; (b) obtain resource augmentation from the non-government sector;
(c) exercise greater fiscal discipline; and (d) make prudent investment choices at the secondary
and tertiary levels. An important objective of this project is to support this process. During
appraisal, agreement was reached with GRZ that the budget would be protected from decline.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with GRZ that the share of MOE budget would be
no less than 15 percent of the total GRZ budget by 1995; and that out of this, at least 40 percent
would be spent on primary education. It was also agreed that for the intervening years, the MOE
would receive not less than 13.8 percent of the toal Government budget in 1993 and 14.4 percent
of the same in 1994. Data on educational expenditures is given in Annex l(b).
2.14      Learning and Teaching Materials: The availability and proper use of textbooks
and other learning materials is the single most effective school input, especially when their costs
are compared to their benefits. Primary schools suffer from a critical shortage of essential
textbooks, writing materials, supplementary learning materials, and general teaching and learning
resources. The situation would be even more critical were it not for the involvement of
FINNIDA, SIDA, the EC and the ODA in the production and supply of learning materials. But
a severe shortage of core items and supplementary materials persists. The pupil/textbook ratio for
a sample of schools in Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola in January 1992 was 8:1 in mathematics, 5:1 in
English, 20:1 in social studies and about 50:1 in Zambian languages. The shortage of learning
materials in schools is attributable to the small and declining financial allocations for educational
materials, the inadequate local production of such materials, the lack of secure storage facilities
for existing materials, and the difficulty in having available materials distributed to schools,
especially in the rural areas. As discussed in paras. 3.5 - 3.9, this project would support the
provision of about 5.3 million primary textbooks, supplementary readers and teachers' guides, as
well as basic items of teaching equipment.
2.15      Regular secondary schools suffer from considerable shortages of textbooks and
learning materials, but the pupil/textbook ratios are more favorable than in primary schools. For
2/ As of May 1, 1992, this was raised to K1,500 per term (K4,500 per year).



-9-
instance, in 1987 pupil/textbook ratios of 3:1; 1:1; 4:1; and 2:1 were found for Grade 8 English,
mathematics, science and geography, respectively. The greater availability of books in secondary
schools is due to their greater durability, their less intensive use, better management procedures,
more secure storage, a more generous allocation of resources, more targeted donor involvement,
and greater parental participation in book provision. Science apparatus and consumables are in
very short supply, and in many schools students never actually handle these materials until their
final examinations. ODA will, in a parallel program, support the procurement of science
materials and textbooks to secondary schools, while FINNIDA, through the Zambia Education
Materials Project (ZEMP), supports the development and production of secondary school
textbooks.
2.16      The Learning Environment: The decline in the quality of physical facilities has
been more precipitous than the decline in overall enrollments. The 55 percent increase in primary
school expansion that occurred between 1975-85 was made possible by more intensive use of
existing facilities-through double, triple and quadruple teaching sessions, through allowing class
size to grow increasingly larger, and through the addition of some classrooms by communities.
While multiple-session teaching and excessively large classes placed a severe strain on physical
facilities, virtually no funds were spent on the maintenance of primary schools. The result is that
the physical enviromment in a typical Zambian primary school is hostile to learning. Classrooms
are bare dilapidated shells; furniture is scarce or almost totally absent; and chalkboards are
damaged or have lost so much color that they can scarcely be usec for meaningful teaching.
2.17      Sanitation facilities have not been expanded to cater to the increased numbers (mainly
because communities support extension or rehabilitation of these facilities less readily than they do
classroom constructs5n). As a result, there are many schools without hand-washing facilities and
which have missing, blocked or over-used toilets, which constitute a serious health hazard. Every
year, several schoo's in the peri-urban areas are closed during the rainy season as a quarantine
measure due to outbreaks of cholera in the local communities. In 1991, about 104 primary
schools were closed in the main urban areas for a duration of one to three months. Outbreaks of
cholera, which is now endemic in Zambia. have affected particularly the provinces of Lusaka and
Copperbelt. In 1991, there were more than 12,000 cases, with a 7.9 percent case fatality rate. In
addition, other environment-related illnesses such as dysentery, resistant strains of malaria and
scabies are responsible for widespread absenteeism and low concentration on school work,
especially in the peri-urban areas. In addition to the rehabilitation of physical facilities, this
project would support a major study on environmentally related illnesses in schools, the terms of
reference of which are given in Annex 8. Findings from this study would be used to develop a
comprehensive school health program and to strengthen linkages between ongoing health
programs and the school.
2.18      There are about 20,000 classrooms for the 1.5 million primary school pupils, and
about one half of them are in major need of repair. Many classrooms crowd 80-100 students into
a room designed for 40-50; in addition, some large schools operate three or four sessions a day.
The result is that a single classroom may be used on an almost uninterrupted basis for more than
ten hours a day by three shifts, each with 80 or more children. The entire primary system has
about 160,000 two-seater desks for an enrollment of 1.5 million children. In many schools,
pupils bring a brick or a sack to sit on; in others, pupils will not be registered until they bring
their own seat or desk. Few schools have safe stores, and even fewer have staff rooms or offices
for senior teachers. Facilities that are constructed or rehabilitated under this project will be
provided with furniture and storage facilities.



-10-
2.19      Hour of Intruction: The official academic year for Grades 1-7 averages 784 hours
(630 in Grades 1-4 and 990 in Grades 5-7) as compared to an average academic year for low-
income countries of 870 hours. These hours are further shortened by high teacher absenteeism,
the periodic closures during the rains when some classrooms become urusable, unscheduled
closings because of cholera and the need to fit triple and quadruple sessions into the hours of
daylight. The provision of an extra 1,000 classrooms under this project would help to reduce the
triple and quadruple shifts and increase the teacher/pupil contact time.
2.20      The physical deterioration has been made worse by vandalism and teft, which affect
almost all schools, especially in urban and peri-urban areas. Communities have tried to improve
the security of schools by providing costly wall-fences, burglar bars for windows and heavy locks
for doors; but in spite of these measures schools remain vulnerable and continue to experience
large losses: doors, window panes, electrical and plumbing fittings, toilet bowls, furnishings and
other items that are potentially marketable or useful are stripped from schools, particularly in the
more densely populated urban areas. Government has initiated a major campaign to increase
community awareness of their role in school ownership and maintenance. In a parallel program,
FINNIDA will establish a primary school-based preventive maintenance program and develop a
manual for school maintenance. This project would reinforce this effort through the establishment
of a school maintenance fund at the rehabilitated schools. Increased community participation is
expected to engender a sense of ownership of new and rehabilitated schools and, thereby, reduce
the incidence of theft.
2.21      The physical condition of many secondary schools has deteriorated to a considerable
extent, but in somewhat more than half of them the deterioration has been arrested by the
maintenance program initiated under IBRD Third Education Loan and co-financed by NORAD.
After IDA suspended disbursements to Zambia in 1987, NORAD maintained its support to the
program under a bilateral agreement.
2.22      Examinations: In Zambia, like elsewhere in the developing world, examinations are
the most important determinant of what is actually taught. Their importance lies in the fact that
they are perceived as determining life chances because of the close link between examinations,
certification and economic opportunities-an analysis of one cohort from Grade 1 to 12 (Figure
2.3, p. 15) indicates that of those who enter Grade 1, only 11 percent of the boys and 3.8 percent
of the girls complete grade 12. Teachers teach to the examination rather than to the curriculum.
Unless examination questions reinforce the goals of education and test knowledge that is
important, they could derail the learliing process, especially when other quality-reinforcing inputs,
such as school supervision, are weak. Until adequate resources are available to the education
sector to provide for more direct quality improvement inputs, examinations can be used as an
effective lever for positively influencing the learning process. In order to do this effectively.
examinations must test important and relevant knowledge and reinforce positive teaching styles
that promote reasoning and problem-solving skills. The Examinations Council of Zambia (ECZ)
in its present state has neither the technical nor the managerial capacity to play this role. This
project would support the strengthening of the ECZ in order to make it a tool for qualitative
renewal. It would support improvements in examinations' quality so that examinations become a
reliable and valid measure of achievement; strengthen technical skills of staff; strengthen its
research, development and analysis capacity; establish a feedback information system to schools;
improve the efficiency of its administrative and technical operations; and establish competency
testing in Grade 4.



-11-
2.23      Problems of examination management and administration have lately begun to
impinge on education quality. For the past four years, the processing of examination results has
been delayed for over three months, with the result that Grades 8 and 10 classes lost more than
one teaching term (in 1990 these classes did not start until June, six months late). While these
delays reflect underlying management and administrative problems at the ECZ, the specific cause
is that the ECZ processes examinations under severe constraints-it depends on computers at the
UNZA and at the Ministry of Finance. Such an arrangement has implications for the security of
examinations and for the control that the ECZ can have on the machine time. The success of
interventions proposed under the examinations component depends on the availability of adequate
examination and data processing facilities at the ECZ. This project would support the
procurement of a computer to help alleviate these logistical problems.
2.24      Competencv Testing: For many years to come, primary education will be terminal
for the majority of pupils. It is important, therefore, to ensure that it provide minimum specified
levels of competence in reading, writing and numeracy of social and economic value to the
learner. An important step towards attaining this objective is the definition of basic competencies
for each grade, which will help teachers identify problems and take remedial measures early on in
the learning process. At the moment, the system has no way of monitoring levels of achievement
until Grade 7, by which time it is too late to take remedial measures. This project will support
the introduction of a basic competency test at Grade 4.
2.25      Teachers: The acid test of the majority of innovations and reforms designed to
improve education is whether they can be effectively integrated by the teacher into the learning
process in order to promote the desired change. Since teachers are a critical variable in
determining what actually happens in the classroom and since they are also the most expensive
item on the budget (their salaries absorb 32 percent of the total public budget and about 97
percent of the primary education recurrent budget), their management is a critical lever for
realizing savings an" for revitalizing the sector. There are several issues related to teachers-the
relevance of their training, the adequacy of incentives given to them, their working environment,
their deployment and utilization, and policy issues such as teaching norms and posting regulations.
As can be seen from Annex 1(c), there are distortions associated with policies governing teacher
deployment. The preponderance of female teachers in the urban areas is as a result of the policy
that guarantees employment to teachers when their spouses are transferred. The policy leads to
over-staffing in urban areas. Such issues will be dealt with in the public sector management
review project.
2.26      Improvements in the working environment that this project would help to bring will,
in the meantime, improve teachers' morale in addition to specific interventions affecting teachers
as discussed below. This project does not address all these issues because (a) avaiiable data
indicate that there is a sufficient number of trained teachers in the system, although the content of
their training does need to be improved; (b) other donors (ODA, SIDA and UNESCO/UNDP) are
supporting in-service teacher training programs that have been closely coordinated with this
project; (c) IlDA is undertaking a public sector management review, which will address issues of
incentives and efficiency in the public service sector as a whole, of which teachers comprise about
35 percent; and (d) policies relating to teachers are currently poorly coordinated, and a better
understanding of the issues needs to be developed befbre major reforms are undertaken.
2.27      This project would support (a) a major study on teacher training, deployment and
utilization that should provide an analytical framework for guiding policy decisions (see Annex 8);
(b) improvements in teacher management through the establishment of an effective system for



-12-
maintaining teachers' records under the NESIS project discussed (see para 2.42); and (c)
orientation courses to familiarize teachers with new textbooks.
Female Partidpation:
......... When one takes into account all of its benefits, educating girls quite possibly yields a higher rate of return
than any other investmnent available in the developing world. Consider its benefits.
Most obviously, there is the direct effect of increased female education on the wages of female workers.
The evidence is that returns in the form (if higher wages are fairly shailar for men and women. As a rough
estimation, wages increase by more than 10 to 20 percent for each additional year of schooling. In parts of the
world like South Asia and Africa, where literacy and school enrollment rates are low, the returns to education
are particularly high. Returns of this magnitude are impressive by the standard of other available investments,
but they are just the beginning of the benefits from increasing female education. In part because of what women
do with the extra income they esam, in part because of the extra leverage it affords them within the family, and
in part because of the direct effects of being more knowledgeable and aware, female education has an enormous
impact on health practices including adoption of family planning, an impact that...is large enough to justify
increased educational outlays even if there were no direct pecuniary benefits. While the evidence is that
increasing schooling of boys and girls is similar in its wage impact, it is clear that educating girls is much more
effective in generating social benefits.
Educating women yields high returns in terms of healthier children.. .There is overwhelming evidence that
mothers channel much more of their income to expenditures on children than their husbands do. But this is only
one of the channels through which education improves health. It also increases the wilingness to seek medical
care and improves sanitation practices..Educated women also choose to have fewer children. Econometric
studies within individual countries looking at the effects of education on fertility find that an extra year of female
schooling reduces female fertility by approximately 5 to 10 percent.. .There is a final group of beneficiaries of
investments in female education-the women themselves ... By increasing knowledge about health care practices
and reducing the average pregnancies of these women, female education significantly reduces the risk of
mernal mo;tality.
There is then an overwhelming case for increased investment in the education of girls. How can this best be
done? The first component of any effort to raise female enrolment ratew must be policies that promote
economic growth and poverty alleviation...Providing schooling that responds to culturl and practical concems is
also essential. Female enrollment is heavily dependent upon schools not being too far away, upon the provision
of appropriate sanitation facilities, and upon the hiring of female teachers. This, of course, is facilitated by
raising female enrollment rates. Flexible hours and the provision of care for younger siblings can also be
helpful in some cases....
Excerpt from 'Investing in AU the People' by Lawrence H. Summers, Vice President and
Chief Economist, The World Bank
Figure 2.2: Women and Education
2.28        The strong synergism between female education and several development outcomes
(see Figure 2.2) makes it imperative to look beyond the obvious causes of the lower participation
of girls in education and to develop more gender-targeted interventions. Girls enroll in almost the
same numbers as boys in Grade 1, but the proportion of girls begins to fall after Grade 4, to the
extent that by Grade 7 there are five girls for every six boys; at the secondary level, the ratio is
one girl for every two boys; while at the universities, female students comprise one to every four
male students. Girls' raw scores in all the national examinations are consistently lower than those
for boys, in every subject and in every province. This occurs even in subjects such as English
language, history, religious studies and biology, where in other countries girls show an advantage.



-13-
2.29      To a certain degree, the gender gap reflects a sociological phenomenon, since the
procedures for advancement through the education system do not discriminate against girls. In
fact, for selection to secondary school, the MOE uses a lower cut-off point for girls in order to
increase their secondary school enrollments. Secondly, female teachers are well represented in
primary schools. As can be seen from Annex l(c), female teachers comprise about 45 percent of
the teaching force, with high concentrations in Lusaka, 65 percent, and the Copperbelt, 58
percent. Analysis of patterns of female participation in education and in the labor force,
however, indicates that there are causes that are more amenable to change within the education
system, for example: (a) because of the decline in quality and quantity of physical facilities in
schools, girls who are unable to enter Grade 1 until they are nine are more likely than boys to be
unable to complete secondary school as they become mature women. In addition, because of the
lack of privacy and shortage of water, girls miss school during menstruation, the cumulat,ve
effect of which is poorer performance; (b) language and illustrations in textbooks and examination
questions reveal gender biases the perpetuate the gap; and (c) because of the dearth of women in
managerial positions in the education sector (and other sectors) girls have few role models to
emulate. Out of 200 senior education officers currently in post, for example, only 17 are women.
Partly because there are so few women with the necessary science and mathematics training and
partly because of logistical constraints, a special training course for Zambia Mathematics and
Science Education Project trained only 20 women out of 200 teachers in 1988.
2.30      In addition to the general improvements that this project would support in access and
quality which would improve the participation rates of girls, it would also (a) incorporate gender
training into all the training courses; (b) address logistical constraints that reduce the participation
of women in training courses including duration and lucation of courses; (c) support mcdifications
in the design of sanitary facilities in schools to ensure increased privacy for girls; (d) provide
criteria to the Curriculum Development Center (CDC) and ECZ for measuring gender sensitivity
in books and examination questions as summarized in Annex 12; and (e) support a major study on
gender issues in education, which will in turn provide the basis for monitoring gender impact in
this and related projects.
2.31      Basic Schools: Basic schools are those that enroll students for what is supposed to be
a continuous cycle from Grade 1 to Grade 9. They are a comparatively new form of institution
that started in 1982 partly as a result of the proposals in the 1978 Education Reform document,
which recommended universal basic education for nine years. There are several reasons why
basic schools are an important variable in determining the success of education renewal strategies
that are being undertaken. The first is that basic schools are expanding at the expense of the rest
of the education system. They are currently the fastest growing sub-sector of the education
system, and energies and resources that should go towards strengthening the educational
foundations are being diverted to basic schools. The best teachers are moved from Grades 1-7 to
teach in Grades 8-9, and community efforts are concentrated on providing more basic school
places by constructing classrooms. Secondly, as discussed below, basic schools create
management and pedagogical problems because of their poor fit in the education structure.
2.32      In January 1983 there were only three basic schools; by April 1992 the figure had
grown to 379. These schools grow not by the establishment of new Grades 1-9 facilities but by
community provision of additional classrooms for Grades 8 and 9 or by the reduction of the
primary intake so that facilities can be released for Grades 8 and 9. Admission to basic Grade 8
classes in 1991 numbered 29,540, or 16.2 percent of those who sat for the secondary selection
examination. For the first time, the 1991 entrants to basic Grade 8 classes constituted a larger
number than those admitted to conventional secondary schools.



-14-
2.33      Basic schools have been opened largely in the rural areas where greater social
cohesiveness facilitated such community efforts, where the needs for expansions at the priinary
level were less, and where entry to a secondary class (Grade 8) was regarded as the first
necessary step out of rural poverty. The result is that basic schools are spread unevenly across
the country. Northern, Eastern and Southern Provinces have the largest number of basic schools.
There are almost none in Lusaka and very few in the Copperbelt. This has created national and
regional imbalances in access to Grade 8, a development all the more inequitable because basic
school quality indicators are poor-their student intake is weaker, they are staffed largely by
primary school teachers, they are deficient in learning resources, and they have sub-optimal
physical facilities.
2.34      Structurally, basic schools belong neither to primary nor to secondary 'chools, and
this has far-reaching implications for teacher training and deployment, for examinations and for
curriculum development. Because the goal of nine years' universal education has yet to be
attained, the system has remained in transition for over a decade, with the result that two partly
overlapping systems now co-exist. Any plan for the expansion of secondary facilities must pay
careful attention to the implications that basic schools have for education financing, the
curriculum, examinations, and teacher training and deployment. The attainment of quality
universal primary education is the GRZ's primary goal, but it is a goal that could easily be
compromised if resources were diverteu in erder to sustain the current pace of expansion in basic
schools. This project would support a major review of basic schools and provide a policy
framework for coordinated expansion of secondary education. The terms of reference for this
study are given in Annex 8.
2.35      Tertiary Education: The universities have fared better relative to other sub-sectors
of education, partly because intra-sectoral resource allocations were in their favor and partly
because the largest volume of external aid went to the universities. In 1987, 37 percent of aid to
education went to the universities. The situation, however, remains difficult: staff morale is low
and retention poor; and resources are inadequate for maintaining facilities, for purchasing
educational supplies, and for keeping libraries up-to-date. The universities could address some of
these issues by a more rational deployment and utilization of non-academic staff and by
establishing more effective management structures. A broader issue that has not been
systematically addressed is how, within a context of diminishing resources, tertiary education can
be made more responsive to the economic needs and how the training of middle- and high-level
manpower can be re-oriented to respond to this need. This project makes provision for a major
policy study on the financing and management of tertiary education, which will pay specific
attention to both cost-recovery and the possibility of introducing incentives to encourage the
participation of private sector in post-seondary education.
Access to Education
2.36      In purely quantitative terms, Zambia's education system has shown remarkable
resilience, although it is resilience achieved at a cost to quality. The primary school gross
enrollment ratio is about 88 percent, and the transition rate to secondary school is about 27
percent. High primary school enrollments have increased social demand for secondary education,
hence the pressure to expand basic schools and the implied tensions in resource allocation as
discussed in paras. 2.31 - 2.34 above.
2.37      Strategies adopted since 1975 led to a significant increase in the enrollment rate,
which rose to an all-time high of 96.1 percent in 1985. Throughout this period, apart from 13



-15-
new schools that were built in Lusaka as a result of savings made in the IlDA-financed Education
Credit IV, investment in primary school expansion was limited to rural community self-help
efforts. In the absence of major investments, the strategy of maximum use of facilities reached its
limits around 1985. About the same time community interest in providing for primary educatioia
waned. To some extent, this was because of economic difficulties, but to a greater extent it was
because of the deflection of interest to providing for basic Grade 8 and 9 classes. Since the
population maintained its high rate of growth, the inevitable outcome has been a decline in the
overall enrollment rate since 1985.
2.38       In the rural areas              ZAMBIA  EDUCATION, 19 7 8 - 19 8 9
access to Grade 1 is virtually             PROGRESSION  OF ONE COHORT
assured, with the possible
exception of Eastern Province         oo Thousands
(where access is constrained by       80.031                        -----------------------
cultural factors and by the   \
influence of civil strife in the    .
neighboring Mozambique), but          40 .........,,.,.,.,.,................,.,._ . l
there is an access constraint at      20             .....,...
the Grade 5 level. In 1989, out         I        ,   ,   , E  X       , NE T
of a total of 3,458 primary            8RAE T  THRDEE FOUR FIVE 61X SEVENEIGHT NINE TEN ELEVEDWEWE
schools, 501 had only Grades
1-4. Between 1986-1989, the                            -O7a-1ss
number of pupils who were                             -DarS  +GIRLS
unable to continue to Grade 5      Souice: MOE SlateK "rll",  .h92
rob Is 101 W one cohortl through neah
increased from 16,200 to           grade over the perlod 1sra-1989
18,400. Several donor agencies
(SIDA, NORAD, AfDB, OPEC                       Flgure 23: School Progression
and FINNIDA) have pledged
support for the upgrading of
most of these schools during the coming five years. Many will be converted into multi-grade
schools, but where the population density justifies it, some will be expanded into regular single-
or multiple-stream primary schools. This project complements these efforts by improving access
to urban exeas, as discussed below.
2.39       In urban areas, particularly in the large peri-urban areas of Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola,
rapid population growth and rural-urban migration have put such pressure on school facilities that
even with excessively large classes and multiple sessions more than 20 percent of 7-year-old
children cannot be admitted to Grade 1. In Lusaka, there was room in Grade 1 for 71 percent of
the 7-year-old children in 1985 but for only 48.5 percent in 1991. Those who enter school in the
urban areas can proceed thereafter through the entire primary cycle, albeit in grossly overcrowded
classrooms and with a teaching day that is shortened to allow for triple and quadruple sessions.
But even within the urban areas problems of access differ. The majority of urban schools are in
long-established residential areas. The result is that children from many high-density new
settlements in urban and peri-urban areas have fewer chances to gain admission to Grade 1. If
they do, they often must travel long distances to attend. Since these children come mainly from
low-income families, the present imbalance in the diatribution and location of schools effectively
discriminates against poor families in educational provision. Most of the new schools and
extensions to be supported under this project would be in these poor peri-urban areas.



-16-
Management. Planning and .Pafcy Issues
2.40      The effective delivery of public educational services depends to a large extent on the
suitability of the management structures operating in the sector, the efficiency of procedures that
are used, and the competence of managerial staff. The MOE faces many basic weaknesses In its
management and planning capability, which undermine its effectiveness as a pacesetter and
coordinator of change and renewal in education. The main problems are the great financial
constraints that the system is working under, which limit the scope of the administrative and
logistical structures to cope with a fast growing sector; the evolving character of GRZ delivery
mechanisms towards greater decentralization and democratization; the increasing complexity and
diversity of education providers; a weak capacity for planning and policy analysis; and an
inadequate supply of managers with the requisite skills and training. Interventions have been
selected in this project which will help to remove crucial bottlenecks in the management system
and at the same time lay the foundation for sustained capacity in management and planning as
elaborated below. As part of the public sector management review, reorganization oz the MOE
will be undertaken. Government would prepare by Sepbemter 30. 1995 a draft plan for the
revision of the management structure of the MOE.
2.41      Policy Planning and Analysis: Comprehensive information about a system is at the
heart of good management and is also a vital ingredient in establishing the context for the
evaluation of alternative policies and strategies. At present, MOE lacks comprehensive, reliable
and up-to-date data, and such data as are available remain unanalyzed and often unutilized except
in the most elementary level. There are no structures in place to provide senior officers with
information for formulating policies, or for identifying and anticipating problems and setting
priorides. In addition, there is no single central source of information on education in Zambia,
and much of the analysis that is done remains poorly disseminated. Most of the sectoral analysis
has been conducted outside MOE, usually by donor agencies. The result is that donors often have
better analytic insights into the education system than MOE itself. A consequence of this is that
the education development program is almost entirely donor-driven. As the publication of the
document Focus on Learning has proven, there is strong local capability in Zambia, which, if
well managed and resourced, can provide insightful analysis of the sector. In order to strengthen
policy planning and analysis, this project would support: (a) the strengthening of the MOE
Planning Unit; (b) several policy sti;dies; and (c) the setting up of an MOE documentation center
to provide a central information repository for GRZ and donor-supported documents, studies and
reports.
2.42      Management of Information: The absence of essential and up-to-date information
and its efficient flow through the system severely handicaps MOE in responding to the challenge
of working with a diminished resource base or in fully utilizing the great potential in new
education providers such as NGOs and the private sector. Teaghers' recogds, in particular, are
poorly kept, and data on teachers are unreliable and incomplete and cannot be used as an input
into staffing, deployment and personnel management. In addition, teachers spend long hours
away from their schools following up on administration matters, such as salaries, that are
bottlenecked by the poor flow of information from the center to the schools. In collaboration
with support from SIDA and UNESCO through the National Education Statistical Information



-17-
Systems (NESIS)I/, this project would support the establishment of a management information
system for the MOE and establish an effective system for maintaining teachers' records.
2.43      The Ingtort is the most important agency for monitoring and promoting
education quality and for ensuring effective development and maintenance of professional and
academic standards in schools. In Zambia, school supervision and inspection are inadequate
because Inspectors lack logistical support, are too few, and are poorly trained. In 1990,
inspectors were able to visit no more than about 20 percent of the primary schools and about 12
percent of the secondary schools. In the last four years, no course has been mounted for training
newly appointed inspectors. Some of the more obvious manifestations of qualitative decline, such
as the deterioration of facilities and teacher absenteeism, could have been highlighted if school
inspection had been more effective. In order to reinforce and synergize the training to be given to
head teachers, this project would support the training of inspectors and provide logistical support
to the inspectorate (para. 3.23). In addition. Government would by August 31. 1993:
(a) prepare and implement an action plan to improve the efficiency and objectivity of the
Inspectorate in monitoring education standards; and
(b) introduce a separate line item in the MOE budget to flnance the activities of the
inspectorate.
2.44      Education oMfcers both at MOE headquarters and at the field level, are poorly
trained for their role-they may participate in an induction seminar or receive some informal
training, but almost all of them take on new responsibilities without any systematic, substantive
preparation. Recently, the education officers' need for such preparation and training has become
all the greater, since it is GRZ policy to devolve more responsibility to the districts and to set up
structures that will effectively decentralize decision-making and administrative routines. This
project would support the training of key education personnel.
2.45      The head teacher has increasingly become catalytic to qualitative renewal, given the
resource-poor teaching environment, the transitional situation when more responsibilities are
being devolved from the center to the periphery, and the necessity for strengthening the
relationship between the community and private providers of education services. Few individuals
receive the training needed to help them become effective academic and administrative heads of
their institutions. Appointment as a school head is based largely on seniority and not on
demonstrated management skills. Apart from the possibility of participation in a short seminar,
the new head receives litte preparation for the role as manager and professional leader. This lack
of preparation is ali the more serious in that an appointment as a school head is effectively for the
remainder of the individual's teaching career. This project would expand and support
improvements in the in-service training of school heads. In addition, in order to increase
motivation for training, the Government would. no later than May 31. 1995. make completion of
a head teachers' training course a condition of their appointment.
2/ NESIS is coordinated by the World Bank as part of the Donors to African Education (DAE)
initiative. It aims to assist African countries in strengthening their national capabilities for building and
maintaining effective statistical information systems. SIDA is the lead agency for NESIS and UNESCO
the executing agency. Zambia is one of three countries in the first phase of implementation of the
program.



-18-
Pluralism In Educationai Provision
2.46      In 1964, the chief providers and mmnagers of aducation were voluntary agencies and
local authorities, but after independence GRZ adopted a centralizec. system of control which
effectively replaced these other providers. The rationale was that non-government provision of
education would lead to the entrenchment of privileges for the wealthy and to the marginalization
of the poor. Currently, out of 3500 primary schools, only 44 are privately owned, while only 47
out of 430 secondary schcols are privately owned and another 35 are grant-aided. The current
crisis of resources, the steady decentralization of GRZ functions, and the liberalization of the
economy make this ai opportune moment to craate an environment for greater participation of the
non-government sector. It is also expected that greater community and/or local authority
involvement in the management and maintenance of schools will reduce the incidence of
vandalism and theP The project would support this initiative using the private sector to deliver
books and construct new classrooms, and having communities manage the rehabilitation of
schools. The two policy studies, financing of education and community participation in
education, would examine how greater pluralism in the provision, management and financing of
education could be promoted (Annex 8).
D. Government Strategy for Education
2.47      Since independence, GRZ strategy for education has been characterized by strong
tension between political aspirations for education democratization on the one hand and financial
realities which translated into much slower education expansion on the other. As the national
revenue base declined, the gap between GRZ goals for education and what was financially feasible
grew wider.
2.48      Immediately after independence, education expansion was rapid and broad-based.
Buoyed by a booming economy and the need to urgently meet trained manpower needs, secondary
education grew at an annual average of 27 percent between 1964-69. One of the goals of the
First National Development Plan (1966-70) was that at least 75 percent of all eligible primary
school children would be in school by 1970. The pace and scale of expansion soon became
unsustainable, at the same time as new concerns relating to education relevance began to emerge.
In the Second National Development Plan (1972-1976), Government conducted a full-scale
evaluation of the education system in order to identify strategies that would make education more
relevant and responsive to national needs. Published in the Education Reform Proposal in 1978,
the results became, and have remained, the blueprint for the development of education in Zambia.
The report was prepared before the full impact of economic decline and population growth had
been realized and does not, therefore, sufficiently address the financial dimensions of the reform
proposals. The most serious ramification of this, and one that has bedeviled the sector up to now,
is the proposal that Government would provide nine years of free and universal basic education.
2.49      The goal of the Third National Development Plan (1979-83) was to implement the
Reform Proposals, but the economic situation had worsened so much by that time that any
expansion of the sector was achieved through more extensive use of facilities and by progressive
reduction in non-salary inputs into the sector. By the Fourth National Development Plan (1989-
93) (an interim plan straddled the third and fourth plan), Government had acknowledged the need
to fundamentally revise education strategies and aspirations. This plan is significandy different
from the others in its modest goals and recognition of fiscal constraints. The main goal for
education is to arrest the continued decline of the education system and to broaden access to
quality education within available resources. Strategic measures include: (a) redirecting a larger
share of public resources to education and increasing educational expenditures to primary



-19-
education; (b) creating an enabling environment for non-governmental participation in education
delivery; (c) prudent expansion of secondary and tertiary eduwcation; and (d) phased elimination of
subsidies in post-primary education. The new Government has retained this priority and, in
addition, has committed itself to directitg resources to the rehabilitation of existing physical
structures and improvement In education quality at all levels through the provision of learning
materials and increased school maintenance funds.
E. Bank Groug Support
2.50      Between 1969 and 1987, the Bank Group support to the education sector in Zambia
amounted to US$79.7 million4/ spread over five projects. The first four were IBRD loans and
the fifth an IDA credit, which was suspended as part of the general suspension of disbursements
to Zambia in May 1987. The first two projects supported Government's efforts to alleviate acute
shortages of trained high- and middle-level manpower in the immediate post-independence era and
supported expansion and improvement of secondary, technical, university, and teacher education.
The Third and Fourth Education Projects supported farmer and health training, adult education,
and the improvement of curriculum development, educational research, and school broadcasting in
response to the need to make education more relevant to natioial and economic needs. The Fifth
Education Project supported the implementation of the 1978 Education Reform Proposal through
the construction of junior secondary schools, which would expand access to nine years of basic
education. The proposed project would be the first IDA education project in Zambia since 1987.
2.51      LA== of Exerenc: Zambia's project implementation experience has been
difficult. All the projects, with the exception of the first one, closed at least one year behind
schedule; the first project, which involved 70 institutions, was considered to have been too large
to manage effectively; the third project underwent major amendments to reflect changing
Government strategy for farmer training; and the fifth project disbursed only 38 percent of the
IDA allocation, partly because implementation was slowed down by a lack of counterpart funds
and partly because of the general suspension of disbursements to Zambia in May 1987.
2.52      These problems were caused by a fast-evolving economic situation which created a
hostile implementation environment: Government was unable to provide sufficient counterpart
funds, and education strategies very quickly became financially unsustainable. These circum-
stances are, hopefully, unlikely to be replicated in the same scale or in a similar combination. At
the same time, there are pertinent lessons which this project has taken into account, namely, the
need to keep projects simple and well focused because of the weak implementation capacity; the
importance of strong donor coordination; the need to strengthen project management, especially in
procurement and accounting; and the need to make adequate arrangements for the availability of
Government counterpart funds in a timely manner. One concern addressed by this project is that
whatever implementation capacity was developed through previous projects was not sufficiently
integrated into the mainstream of the education ministry. During negotiations, it was agreed that
by May 31. 1994. the Government will furnish to -DA an action plan (including a time-table).
acceptable to IDA for the reorgmanion of the    ibonsilities of ZEPIU in relation to MOE. and
thereafter implement such action plan according to the timetable (para. 4.20).
2.53      Linkages with other IDA Drojects: This project is developed in the context of the
adjustment program supported by IDA, which has several direct implications for education.
A/ Includes two grants provided by NORAD and administred by the Bank: US$11.0 million
equivalent under the Third Education Project and US$6.1 million under the Fifth Education project.



-20-
These include various fiscal austerity measures, even as recurrent departmental charges are
increased; increased privatization and removal of subsidies; and the redirecting of more resources
to the social sectors. The fiscal targets set in the Project conform to the proposals in the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP). The project is also closely linked to the Social Recovery Project,
through which the rehabilitation of schools will be undertaken. The Public Sector Management
Review will have direct implications on education personnel as measures to develop a slimmer,
more efficient public service are instituted, while the proposed health bad nutrition project will
take up some of the issues to be highlighted in the health education policy study.
F. The Role of Donors
2.54      The crisis in education financing has been somewhat mitigated by broad-ranging
support from various donor agencies. Donor support to the education sector averaged about
$14.5 million per year during the 1980s, the equivalent of 14 percent of total public expenditure
on education. In the earlier part of the 1980s much of this aid was directed to secondary schools
and the university, but more recentiy primary schools began to receive an increasing share.
Donor support to education declined between 1987 and 1991 because donors were disenchanted
with Government's ambivalent commitment to economic reform. Starting in November 1991,
however, the new Government has received strong support from the international community.
Donor involvement by on-going or proposed project areas is discussed in greater detail in Annex
11.
2.55      As is clear from Annex 11, there is an unusually large number of donors involved in
education in Zambia, making the issue of coordination critical in order to minimize the risk of
overstretching Government's implementation capacity and to avoid duplication of efforts. It is
especially critical to coordinate donor inputs into school construction and rehabilitation because so
many donors are involved and because building designs and standards of earlier projects are no
longer sustainable. Government is in the process of preparing the strategy for education
development, which should ine dig set the agenda for donor support to the sector.
2.56      Donor Coordination and C-_ingncin.g The importance of donor coordination has
been taken into account at each step during project preparation. Project design is aimed at
maximizing the integration of activities, reinforcing ongoing donor efforts, mobilizing and
coordinating resources to the sector, and/or filling the gaps in the support program. As a result,
(a) co-financing is expected from the Dutch Government for the training of head teacuers, for
gender training, and for financing three of the policy studies; (b) parallel financing is expected
from ODA for the training of inspectors and for the in-service teachers' program (INSEI), for
financing three of the policy studies, and for the supply of some of the supplementary readers
idendfied in the project; (c) SIDA and UNESCO, under a parallel financing program, will
support the proposed improvements in the data management system and the establishment of
Teachers' Records as part of the NESIS program; (d) FINNIDA will support four external
technical assistance (TA) posts for the learning materials component (advisors in book production,
publishing and distribution) and will support the technical program adviser in charge of
rehabilitation and construction. In addition, FINNIDA will support the establishment of a
primary school preventive maintenance program; (e) NORAD will support the external TA post
for procurement officer for the ZEPIU; and (t) UNICEF, in collaboration with WHO, will
support the study on health education in schools and follow-up activities related to health
education. To ensure that the high level of coordination developed during project preparation will
be maintained throughout implementation, co-financiers will participate in the annual reviews and
in the mid-term project review.



-21-
m. TMEZPQ.EI
A. frJect Origin
3.1       The proposed project would be the first IDA operation in the education sector since
1987, when the Government suspended the IMF/Bank-supported adjustment program. The Fifth
Education Project, which was under implementation at that time, was suspended as part of the
general suspension of disbursements to Zambia and closed soon after. Background work for this
project began in late 1990, inspired by the Basic Education For All conference in Thailand in
March 1990, which encouraged the Government to focus more directly on primary education. In
mid-1991, Government set up a team to articulate a strategy for the development of education in
Zambia. Their report, Focus on Learning: Strategies for the Development of School Education In
Zambia, which was endorsed at a policy seminar in February 1992, has been used as the principal
guide to project design and content. During negotiations, the Government agreed that it would
formally adopt this strategy document no later than May 31, 1993. The preparation of this
strategy document was paid for by funds from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for this
project, as was a report on school mapping. The team that prepared the strategy report has been
heavily involved in the preparation of this project together with GRZ counterpart teams, who
worked closely with members of the preparation missions. In addition, several donors, namely
SIDA, ODA, UNESCO, WHO, UNICEF, the Netherlands Government and FINNIDA, have
been involved in project preparation and have provided staff resources for project identification
and appraisal. All missions have held extensive briefing and de-briefing sessions with the donors
involved in the education sector in Zambia.
B. Poect Obiecfives and Descrintion
3.2       The project would support Government in its efforts to reverse the continued
deterioration of the education system and to sustain education revitalization in a context of severe
fiscal austerity. Specific project objectives are:
(a)   to arrest further decline in education quality by supporting a series of interventions that
will enhance education quality;
(b)   to improve access to primary education through the rehabilitation and construction of
physical facilities; and
(c)   to increase the capacity of the education sector to manage an increasingly complex sector
within a context of greatly circumscribed resources through the strengthening of education
management and planning and through improvements in the MOE capacity for policy
formulation and analysis;
The project would ensure that the gains made through the project are sustained by
raising the level of resources avaiable to the education sector through increased allocation from
the public budget and through strengthening mechanisms for greater participation of the non-
government sector.



-22-
3.3       Project Descripfton: The project has three interrelated compononts. The first
focuses on qualitative renewal and would support the provision of learning and teaching materials
and improvements in examination quality and management. The second component consists of
rehabilitation and construction of physical facilities in primary schools, which would increase
access and improve the education environment. The third is a planning and management
component which would strengthen professional and administrative support to teachers and to
schools; support the establishment of an information management system including a system for
maintaining teachers' records; and undertake a series of policy studies that are essential to
planning further development of the sector. Project conditionality would ensure increased
budgetary allocation to education, while project implementation would buttress Government
efforts to involve the non-government sector in education delivery. Given the immense gap
between the needed investments in the sector and the resources available, the proposed
interventions were selected on the basis of their catalytic impact on education revitalization.
Individually and in concert, the interventions discussed below remove crucial bottlenecks and/or
address emergency needs and at the same time lay the foundation for long-term improvements in
the sector. In addition, the project (a) pulls together most of the donor activities in the sector into
an integrated program of support; (b) makes targeted interventions to improve the level and
quality of girls' participation in education; and (c) highlights major environmental health problems
in schools.
C. Project Components
Education Ouality Improvements (US$11.9 million)f/
3.4       While all the interventions proposed in this project would enhance education quality,
this heading covers: (a) the supply and distribution of instructional and learning materials; and
(b) improvements in the quality and management of examinations.
3.5       Instructional Materials: An ongoing joint FINNIDA/SIDA program (ZEMP) has
established a comprehensive system for the development and distribution of textbooks, teachers'
guides and exercise books. Through parallel financing, ODA is supporting the development of a
new primary English course and the supply of supplementary readers for lower primary classes.
Also, through parallel financing the EC has provided resources for the direct purchase of science
books and dictionaries for lower primary classes and for the development of new materials and
the orientation workshops for these materials. Basic science items and blackboard instruments are
being developed with UNESCO/UNDP support but in quantities that will not meet essential
requirements for several years.
3.6       This project has been designed in cooperation with these donor activities, and
agreement has been reached that it would complement their interventions in the following ways:
The project would (a) provide for the immediate printing/reprinting of tides while ZEMP- and
ODA-supported manuscript development is underway; (b) assume responsibility for the printing
and distribution costs of some titles included in the original ZEMP m schedule, thereby freeing
ZEMP resources for other materials-related activities and for TA support; (c) produce textbooks
and teachers' guides in areas not addressed by other donors; (d) provide to all primary schools a
mini-library and a basic teaching kit while certain local production is being developed; and (e)
provide essential reference materials and other books to the primary teacher training colleges.
S/ Base costs for each component are given in parentheses.



-23-
The coordination with the various donors would be such that to a large extent they would
undertake the development costs of manuscripts and the TA costs relating to management,
production and distribution, while this project would concentrate its resources on the printing,
purchase and actual distribution of books and materials.
3.7       This would enable the project to provide the following to the approximately 3,500
primary schools in the country:
(a) a sufficient number of textbooks which, along with provisions from the Government and
other donors, would ensure a pupil:book ratio of 2:1 by 1997. The project would provide
approximately 4,000,000 textbooks, of which 600,000 would be reprints of earlier series,
240,000 would be new manuscripts for immediate production, 2,800,000 would be new
manuscripts to be developed under this and the ZEMP projects, and 500,000 would be
later reprints of the new manuscripts;
(b) teachers' guides and syllabi to all teachers in core and selected non-core subjects. The
project would provide 665,000 teachers' guides, of which 240,000 would be reprints of
old series, 30,000 would be new manuscripts for immediate production, and 395,000
would be new manuscripts to be developed under this and the ZEMP projects. In
addition, 150,000 copies of syllabi would be printed;
(c) a teaching kit comprising wall charts, maps, globes, reference materials and blackboard
instruments; and
(d) mini-libraries consisting of a total of 528,500 reference books, supplementary readers and
books for primary schools and a total of 11,000 copies of the same for teacher training
colleges. On average, each school would receive approximately 150 books and each
teacher training college an average of 1,000 books.
Details regarding the items proposed for financing are provided in Annex 7. Gender-
sensitivity criteria would be applied to all new materials developed under this project as outlined
in Annex 12.
3.8       Book Publishing Policy: The CDC has initiated activities for the development of a
book publishing policy. The project would support this work aimed at examining issues of
curriculum design, guidelines for manuscript development and approval, selection of titles,
development costs including possibilities for royalties, locus of responsibility for distribution and
sales, level of Government involvement, and sustainable financing of learning materials including
cost recovery measures, review of the publishing industry to determine the professional and
technical capacity to produce educational books in the numbers required and to deliver these
books to each school, as well as the industry's training and investment needs, particularly as they
relate to educational materials. This activity would draw on experience from the proposed ODA-
supported book loan scheme that will be implemented parallel to this project. During project
mid-term review, Government would present proposals for sustainable development and supply of
learing materials to IDA for review and discussion.



-24-
3.9       The project would support teachers' orientation semina  to introduce teachers to
new textbooks developed under this project. This will include one national seminar per year to be
attended by regional inspectors and coordinators and two teachers per district; and 55 district
seminars over five years, to be attended by a participant from each zone as well as the regional
inspectors and coordinators.
3.10      E.amination Refo: The objective of this sub-component is to improve the quality
of examinations and the management of the ECZ as a lever to improve the quality of the learning
process. The project would: (a) strengthen the ECZ professional expertisb in order to build
capacity for examination reform and reinvigoration; (b) improve the management of ECZ in order
to increase the capacity of the institution to manage change and growth of the education system;
(c) establish an examination feedback system to schools in order to use the leverage of
examinations to positively influence the learning process; (d) support the development of
competency tests for diagnostic use in schools at the Grade 4 level in order to detect learning
achievement problems at an early point; and (e) make provision for examination and data
processing facilities in order to reduce processing delays an, to improve capacity for research and
analysis. Given the poorer performance of girls on all subjects, examination setters would be
trained to take gender issues into account. The rationale for these interventions is given in paras.
2.22  2.24.
3.11      The project would support improvements in the quality of examinations through:
(a) three-month training programs in education assessment for ten officers in ECZ; two one-
year courses in education testing/research;
(b) localization of the Grade 12 Examination. This was completed in 1988, but papers are
stdll being set and printed in England. The project would support training workshops for
question-paper setters for the Grade 12 exaniination in the ten most commonly
administered subjects in order to finalize the localization process; and
(c) examinations feedback. Starting in the third year of the project, a system would be
established for collecting, analyzing and disseminating examination informatio: to schools.
The Examination Specialist (para. 3.14(a)) would guide this process.
3.12      The project would also support improvements in the managemt and
administatioln of examinations through:
(a) the financing of short management training courses for senior managers;
(b) the financing of three-month attachments of the Records and Print Officers to a suitable
foreign examining authority;
(c) the establishment of a reference library at ECZ; and
(d) improvements in the security of examinations. The project would support limited physical
modifications to the ECZ building in order to improve the security of examinations. This
will be done after GRZ has reallocated all other departments unrelated to examinations to
other buildings and released the building to ECZ. As a condition for rdit effectiveness
Government would release the Examination Council building f' the sole use of ECZ.



-25-
3.13      ComoQ.lpeknteng: The project would support the development of a basic
competency test to be used for diagnostic purposes in numeracy and reading and writing (English
and mother tongue). These would be set by ECZ in collaboration with CDC and marked by
teachers according to marking schemes developed at ECZ. The Examination Specialist would be
responsible for the development of these tests and for familiarizing the Inspectorate and CDC with
their use.
3.14      In order to facilitate implementation of the above, the project would finance teiehncal
Mistan  as follows:
(a) TA Examination Specialist to co-ordinate the examinations reform process, to work with
Subject Specialists, and to organize and manage the item writers' workshops;
(b) TA in management, 12 months to assist the management team of the ECZ in streamlining
the organization of ECZ in order to respond to the needs of the sector in an efficient and
timely manner;
(c) one external TA in computer management for 36 months to install and establish a viable
computer and examination data management system, supported by one local TA to train
data-entry and analysis staff;
(d) TA in record-keeping, to work with an ECZ-appointed Records Officer to develop and
implement a secure record-keeping system and to improve documentation.
3.15      The project would also support the ECZ with eguiument as follows:
(a) a computer with sufficient capacity to handle the processing and data analysis needs of the
ECZ;
(b) personal computers and software, and other peripherals for the preparation of the
examination newsletter;
(c) three vehicles; and
(d) a line-printer.
Rehabilitation and Construction (US$ 13.7 million)
3.16      The project would support rehabilitation and extension of existing school facilities and
the construction of a limited number of new schools and provide furniture and equipment for the
new facilities. The credit would finance school inputs and infrastructure rehabilitation with minor
effects on the environment. The credit would also finance the construction of 20 new schools for
which sites have been set aside as part of the urban planning process and the supporting
infrastructure already put in place. Government has a well-established national building
construction and water and sanitation installation code which is environmentally sensitive and
which responds to the Bank's environmental concerns. The selection and appraisal criteria for
inclusion of schools to be rehabilitated includes environmental concerns. The provision of water
and sanitation facilities and the proposed UNICEF-WHO health education sub-component would
reduce the risk of diarrhea diseases and have positive effects on the environment.



-26-
3.17      The activities under this sub-component would:
(a) increase the number of new primary school classrooms by 1,000;
(b) reduce walking distances by improving the geographical distribution of school places in
peri-urban areas;
(c) reduce incidence of school closures due to cholera in schools by improving water and
sanitation facilities and by strengthening hygiene education; and
(d) improve education quality by reducing the number of students in each class to 50 or less
and by increasing the number of hours of instruction through the elimination of triple and
quadruple shifts. Improvements and modification of sanitation facilities to respond to the
special needs of mature adolescent girls would be given special attention. For both
rehabilitation and new construction, guidance would be given to Building Officers which
would include environmental considerations.
3.18      Rehabilitation and Extension of Ehysical Fadiliftes: Rehabilitation and extension of
physical facilities would be done in the three most populous peri-urban areas, namely Lusaka,
Ndola and Kitwe. The criteria for selecting schools for rehabilitation would be that they have
triple or quadruple shifts and/or they have had to be closed because of cholera in the locality. An
estimated 20 existing schools would be rehabilitated, and another 20 would be extended.
Rehabilitation would concentrate on securing school buildings, improving water and sanitation
facilities, and providing basic general repairs, with the criterion that the costs not exceed 25
percent of the cost of replacing the facility. Extensions would be tailored to the individual
school's needs; on average seven classrooms would be added to each school. The project would
provide furniture to all rehabilitated and extended schools. This sub-component would be
implemented through the Social Recovery Project Unit (SRPU) in order to utilize experience that
IDA has gained working with communities in school rehabilitation (see Annex 10). Appraisal
criteria for such schools include environmental concerns. As part of the rehabilitation program in
cholera-effected areas, UNICEF and WHO would co-finance a program on hygiene education in
schools.
3.19      Construction of New Schools: The project would finance the construction and
furnishing of a total of 20 new primary schools in low-income peri-urban areas of Lusaka (9),
Ndola (6) and Kitwe (5).6i Each school would consist of about 35 classrooms, four multi-
purpose blocks, one office/resource room block, one male and one female ablution blocks and one
staff house. The project would provide furniture to all new schools. The provision of water,
either by connection to the council supply or by sinking a bore-hole or well, would form part of
the works for each school. Sita for school construction were identified during the school-
mapping exercise. New designs for standard primary school buildings, emphasizing the optimal
use of local materials and alternative construction methods for acceptable, low-cost structures,
have been commissioned by the African Development Bank. Upon approval of such designs by
E/ These three areas have been selected because of the compelling education-quality concerns discussed in
paras. 2.16-2.21 and because access problems in the rural areas are being addressed by other donors in parallel
progsms.



-27-
the Government and IDA they would be accepted as the new standard for classroom construction.
The submission of a school design acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.20  ,   Maintefnam: One of the most effective ways of ensuring project sustainabiity is by
establishing an effective preventive maintenance program and one that will involve the school
community. All the schools that would benefit from this project would contribute to a school
maintenance fund, to be managed by the PTAs. Under a parallel program, FINNIDA would
support the establishment of a primary school preventive maintenance program, which would be
closely coordinated with this project and which would provide the necessary technical expertise
and provide guidance to PTAs on the use of the maintenance fund.
Planning and Management (US$8.1 million)
3.21      This component consists of support to MOE in three areas: (a) training of education
managers and provision of logistical support to them; (b) improvements in MOE information
system; and (c) major policy studies. Each of these sub-components is described below.
3.22      Manaemnent Traninin5: The aim of this sub-component is to strengthen
administrative and professional competence of head teachers, education officers and inspectors so
that they can provide effective leadership during a period of major transition, namely economic
adjustment and decentralization. Training courses would include budgeting, education policy, and
administration, as well as specific task-related topics. Training for head teachers would be
conducted at the 10 provincial teacher-training colleges (ITCs) and the National In-Service
Training College (NISTCOL), while that of the inspectors and education officers would be
conducted at the University of Zambia (UNZA) and managed by the Department of Education
Administration and Policy Studies (UNZA/EAPS). The School of Education (UNZA) will seek
approval from the University Senate to provide successful candidates with a formally recognized
certificate. Limited external training and study tours would also be provided for education
managers, with responsibility at the center and at the provincial level. In addition, gender-
sensitivity training would be included as a core topic in all training courses. To prepare gender-
sensitivity trainers for the project, the project would provide preparation costs including some
local and regional study visits. In addition, priority wvould be given to female officers in the
training outlined below, while the strengthening of the data base would include gender
disaggregation. The rationale for the proposed interventions is discussed in Chapter 2.
3.23      The project would finance:
(a) the training of a total of 4,000 head teachers and 22 college tutors. In addition, by the
end of the project, a pool of expert trainers would be available to provide effective
training beyond the life of the project. The project would cover the costs of training and
provide local technical assistance in the form of four expert-trainers for each province and
external technical assistance for designing and setting up suitable courses and for
monitoring and evaluation. This sub-component will be co-financed by the Netherlands
Government;
(b) training of inspectors and other education officers. The proposed training program would
consist of a three-month course for both inspectors and education officers to be conducted
at UNZA and run by the Department For Educational Administration and Policy Studies
(UNZA/EAPS). The course would have an intake of 40 participants (20 inspectors and



-28-
20 education officers) and would be held once a year. Priority for entrance into the first
year's course would be given to those who have not yet received formal training;
thereafter, Provincial Education Officers would nominate candidates from their provinces
in consultation with MOE Headquarters. The project would cover the costs of the
training including the costs of local and external technical assistance. Parallel financing
from ODA would cover some of the costs of this training; and
(c) logistical and institutional support. The project would supply UNZA School of Education
with reprographic facilities and some relevant journals and books; nine 26-seater
minibuses for TTCs to supplement those provided through the SHAPE program; and the
Inspectorate with at least one vehicle for each province and two for the MOE headquarters
(a total of 11). Additional vehicles for district inspectors would also be provided. The
transport needs for the Inspectorate and for field officers are estimated at about 76
vehicles, a number beyond the resource scope of this project. It is expected, however,
that under a parallel donor-assisted program, more vehicles would be made available for
the Inspectorate.
(d) gender-sensitivity training. The project would cover the costs of study tours and training
for the trainers as well as costs of gender-sensitivity training for all courses.
3.24      Management of nformation: Three sub-components are grouped under this
heading, namely, the improvement of the MOE database, establishment and maintenance of an
effective system of teachers' records, and the establishment of an education documentation center
in the MOE.
3.25      The project would finance:
(a) IData base. The project would help improve the MOE database as an essential tool in
policy development and planning. SIDA will finance a large share of this sub-component.
(b) Teachers' records. Under this sub-component a system would be developed for
collecting, processing, utilizing and maintaining teachers' records as a basis for increasing
efficiency and swiftness in the management of teachers. The project would build upon
groundwork laid by the Commonwealth Secretariat through their regional advisory
program in improving school and teachers' management. The project would cover the
costs of fellowships for study tours/attachments to relevant institutions, computerization of
the records and TA. This sub-omponent would be co-financed by SIDA and
implemented under the UNESCO-executed NESIS program.
(c) Documentation Center. The project would collaborate with UNESCO to support the
creation of a documentation center, which would be a repository for important data and
documents relevant to the education sector. Limited extensions to the MOE headquarters
building would be supported by the project to house this center and the teachers' records.



-29-
3.26      Policy Stuldim: The project would support 10 major studies to support planning and
policy analysis In the following areas: (a) the management of education; (b) strategies to increase
access to secondary education and the impact of basic schools; (c) financing of education;
(d) teacher training and utilization; (e) gender issues in education; (f) primary and secondary
school curriculum; (g) cholera and environmental health issues in schools; (h) the development of
tertiary education; (i) community participation; and 0) out-of-school youth. These would be
operational studies that would provide Government with comprehensive information, strategic
plans, and alternative models and options for development in these areas. Findings from the
studies would form the basis for developing plans and policies in the education sector. In
particular, by contributing to a greater understanding of the sector and its workings, and by
accumulating a wide range of data, they would form the basis for future investnent in the
education sector by the Bank and other donors. The documentation developed during the studies
would also serve as a valuable source of materials for the training of educational managers,
planners and analysts. Several donors would co-finance the studies as follows: the Dutch
Government (financing, out-of-school youth and commuzdty participation); ODA (teachers,
management and tertiary education); SIDA (gender); and UNICEF (cholera and environmental
health in schools). During negotiations. Government agreed to finalize four of these studies (on
education financing. management. teachers and gender) no later than September 30. 1995.
Details of the proposed studies are given in Annex 8.



-30-
IV. PROIJECT COSTS. FINANCING, MAAEENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. ProJect Costs and Finantn,
4.1        The total cost of the project would be about US$42.8 million, including local taxes,
duties and service charges. The main components are: (a) provision of instructional materials
and improvements in quality and management of examinations; (b) rehabilitation and construction
of primary school facilities; (c) management improvements through training of head teachers and
education managers, and improvements in the handling of education information; and (d) policy
studies. The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at US$27.9 million or 65
percent of the total project costs, including contingencies. Detailed costs are presented in Annex
2 and are summarized in Tables 4.1 and 4.2 below.
TABLE 4.1: Project Cost SLinIv bv Prolect Canent
CtUS 0008)
Totat
X      Base
Lora      forefn       I1ai         FEL    C4st
A. IMPROVEMENTS IN QUALITY
1.  Instructional Materials         898        8,055       8,954       90      25
2. Examination Inputs               562        2,423       2,986       81       8
B. REHABILITATION & CONSTRUCTION      7,122        6,616     13,738        48      38
C. PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
1. Head-teacher Training            705          340       1,044       33       3
2.  Inspectors' Course              335          272        608        45        2
3.  Institutional Support           453        3.469       3,922       88       11
4. Teachers$ Records                177          599        776        77        2
5.  Information Management           21           87        1O8        81       0
6. Major Studies                    650          975       1.625       60       5
0. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                 1,515          681      2,196        31       6
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS             12.43        0351        35-95        6
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES           13031       23328   -6  J9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES              1,409       2,095       3,505       60       10
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  14.879       2Z.910     42&LZ8        65     112
4.2        Basis of Cost Estimates: The project base costs are in May 1992 prices (as verified
at appraisal), calculated in US dollars and converted at the prevailing rate of K195 to US$1.
Civil works costs for rehabilitation are based on priced bills of quantities as listed under
comparable contracts by the Zambia Education Project Implementation Unit (ZEPIU) and by the
SRPU. The square meter rate set for new construction of primary schools is US$180, based on
an average of costs calculated by external consultants (who have recently compiled cost
information in Zambia) and by the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MWS). The square meter
rate of $45 for rehabilitation project was similarly set; both rates are comparable to those used in
construction projects in the SADCC region. The community contribution to the construction and
rehabilitation component is costed at 10 parcent of total project costs. Service connections are
estimated to be 5 percent and furniture 10 percent of the costs of new facilities. Furniture for
rehabilitated facilities are estimated to be 40 percent of the cost of rehabilitation. Equipment cost
estimates are based on recent purchases under the SRP, under other donor-financed projects
implemented under ZEPIU, and from estimates from IDA missions. TA and fellowship costs are
based on prevailing prices internationally and nationally for such services. Costs for workshops
and travel are based on standard Government allowances. The main components of fozeijg
training are: (a) the costs for attaching Record and Print Officers of the Examination Council to



-31-
suitable foreign examination authorities (para. 3.12(b)); (b) external training and study tours for
education managers at provincial and national level (para. 3.22); and (c) the costs of fellowships
and attachments to relevant foreign Institutions of managers of the teachers' records system (para.
3.25(b)). Past experience, among others of UNESCO, has shown that giving local staff exposure
to international best practice is a cost effective way to build up skills for education sector
management. Foreign technical assistance, the alternative to such foreign training, costs
US$12,000 per month, whereas an attachement to a foreign institution costs US$4,000 per person
for a three-month period. Although the foreign component of training is high, it is comparable to
that of similar IDA projects in other countries. Training costs are estimated on the basis of: (a)
the prevalent prices for scholarships, nationally and internationally; and (b) standard Goverment
allowances for the people to be trained.
TABLE 4.2: COST SUMMARY BY SUMMARY ACCOUNT
(US$ OOOs)
x
TOTAL
mAS
Local     Fareign    Total     F.E.       COSTS
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  CIVIL WORKS                   5,943.      5,179    11,122      47           31
B.  EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS          12       1,165     1,177     100            3
C.  DESKS AND OTHER FURNITURE       761         761     1,521      50            4
D.  BOOKS                           659       7,958     8,617      92           24
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.  INTERNATIONAL                700      2,800      3,500      80          10
2. LOCAL                         531          0        531       0            1
F.  VEHICLES                          0       1,867     1,867     100            5
G.  STUDIES ° SURVEYS               566       1,051     1,616      65            4
H. TRAINING
1. EXTERNAL                        0        717        717     100           2
2.  LOCAL                         53         13         66      20           0
I.  WORKSHOPS/PANELS                863        497      1,360      37           4
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS           10,087      22,007    32.093      69           89
11.  RECURRENT COSTS
A.  LOCAL SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES  1,306          0     1,306       0            4
B. OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE
1. VEHICLE O&H                   321      1,286      1,607      80           4
2.  BUILDING O&M                  75        225        300      75            1
C.  OFFICE/ADMIN SUPPORT            650           0       650       0            2
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS             2,352       1,511     3,863      39           11
TOTAL BASELINE LOST$                 1.439       23.518    35.956       5           0
Physical Contingencies            1,03t       2,296     3-,S328    69
Prfco Contingencies               1,409       2,095     3,505      60           10
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  14.879      27.910    42789       6           112
4.3         ContingUenc  AlMowances: Project costs include contingency allowances for
unforeseen physical additions (US$3.3 million or 9 percent of base costs). These are computed as
fbllows: (a) 10 percent of the estimated costs of civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles,
supplies and materials; and (b) 5 percent of the costs of technical assistance, training, workshops,
studies and fellowships. Price contingencies based on IDA inflation projections are estimated to
be US$3.5 million or 10 percent of project costs.
4.4         Foreign Exchang, Compnet:  The foreign exchange component for each
summary account category is indicated in Table 4.2 above. These are based on direct and
indirect cost estimates of civil works and on the assumption that all of the equipment, vehicles and



-32-
furniture and up to 80 percent of the inputs for other categories would be imported. The foreign
exchange component of this project, excluding contingencies, is estimated to be 65 percent of
project costs.
4.5        Re -uiLnt Costs: The Project would support recurrent local salaries and operations
and maintenance. The total estimated recurrent costs during the project period would be US$3.9
million, which would be approximately US$780,000 per year. It is estimated that the additional
recurrent cost outlays resulting from this project would continue at a similar level after project
completion. This level would be equivalent to about 1 percent of the Government's 1991 budget.
Given the Government's commitment to increasing the allocation to education during the next five
years, the recurrent cost implications would not put undue stress on the budget.
4.6        Proiect Fnanndng: Of the total project cost of US$42.8 million, Government would
finance US$5.9 million (including US$697,000 financed by local communities), US$32 million
would be provided by the proposed IDA credit, and US$5.0 million is expected to be financed by
parallel and co-financiers. Thus, 87 percent of the total project costs would be financed by IDA
and donor s gencies, and the balance (13 percent) would be borne by GRZ and local communities
(see Table 4.3).
Table 4.3: Enane= hlan
(US$ Ooos)
GRZ AND
IDA       COMMUNrTIS  COPINAN             TOTAL
I. IVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                    11,606         1,854            0           13,460
B. Equipment & Materials          1,133             0           309            1,442
C. Desks and other Funiture       1,864             0             0            1,864
D. Books                         10,281           246             0           10,527
B. Technical Assistance
1. Intermational               2,650            0          1,362           4,012
2. Local                        563             0            54             617
P. Vehicles                       2,058             0             0           2,058
0. Studies & Surveys                364             0          1,250           1,616
H. Training
1. International                255             0           543             798
2. Local                         55             0             1              56
1. Workshops/Panels                 366             0          1,250           1,616
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS           31.193         Z0             mg             38.258
B. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
A. Local Salaries                     0          1,591            0            1,591
B. Operations & Maintenance         461         1,874             0            2,335
C. Project Management               303           303             0             606
TOTALINQRBMENTAL
OPERATING COSTS                     763         am                0            4.531
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  31.956         5.868                        42.782
Note: These cost include contingencies, both physical and price.



-33-
B. Procurmmt
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrgjangul
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
PoEliemet El=l                                                 CI}   &LX   .F-A-7                    lad
A. Civil Works - New Schools
and ECZ/MOE upgrading                     5.6          1.7        0.3'         1.6             9.1
(5.6)*       (1.7)      (0.3)        (-.-)          (7.6)
B. Rehabilitation and Extension of Schools
(1) Civil Works                              -.-          1.8        0.2w        0.2             2.2
(1.8)      (0.2)        (.-)           (2.0)
(2) Construction Materials                   1.0          0.2        0.8w'       0.2             2.2
(1.0)        (0.2)      (0.8)        (-.-)          (2.0)
C. Education Materials                           6.8          3.4         -.-         0.3            10.5
(6.8)        (3.4)       (.)          --)(10.2)
D. Equipment, Furniture &  Vehicles              3.0           1.8        0.1         0.3             5.2
(3.0)        (1.8)       (.)          --)(4.8)
E. Technical Assistance &  Studies               -.-           -.-        5.1         0.1             5.2
* )   (~--)     (3.4)                       ( .   .4)
F. Training &  Workshops                          -.-          -.-        1.6         1.9             3.6
i.) (-.-)  (0.7)       (-.-)          (0.7)
G. PPF                                             .            .         0.2         -.-             0.2
.  (-.-)  (0.2)        (-.)           (0.2)
H. Incremental Operating Costs                   -.-           -.-        1.0         3.8             4.7
{.a~~   -a    L l o?              1;{L
TOTAL                                     16.4          8.9        9.3          8.3           42.8
(16.4)        (8.9)       (6.6)       (-.)          (31.9)
*   Figuma in parntses indicate DA financg. So meaition discrpanie am due to ounding.
'Not Association Financed,' includes recurt coats, truning, woekhop and inind cmmuny contri     for seho
rehab d cttion an  eteniow na  foned out of the proceeds of thid credit. Most recum et codt an finand by tho
Goverment, whilo taiing and worshops ar finaneed by co-financier under parallcl co-financing armangAmea.
bl Includes fore. account upgrding of secwity of ECZ and MOE buildigg.
c/  Pwdent shomppig for conuction maeials, small value equipment and  pecial    labor servies on tho basis of the
quotations.



-34-
4.7       The procurement arrangements for the project are outlined in Table 4.4 and described in
detail in the following paragraphs. In general, procurement of works, goods and services financed by
other donors under parallel financing arrangements would be undertaken in accordance with
procedures prescribed by these agencies and therefore reflected in the "N.A.F." column. The N.A.F.
column also includes recurrent costs, training and workshops financed by Government. The school
rehabilitation and expansion sub-component is still undefined for procurement purposes, as the exact
mix of sub-projects according to contract size and works specification to be financed through the
SRPU would be identified according to the demand from communities and NGOs; therefore, the
breakdowns within Category B are tentative and based on the experience of the SRPU (para. 4.8 (c)).
4.8       Procurement of Civil Works: Contracts for the construction and rehabilitation of the
physical facilities financed under the IDA credit would be awarded in accordance with the following
procedures:
(a) lntemnational Competitive Bidding (ICB).would be applied for all civil works contracts
estimated to cost US$250,000 and above, procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May, 1992). Domestic civil works
contractors would receive a preferential margin of 7.5 percent in bid evaluation over
competing bids from foreign bidders, following IDA guidelines.
(b) Competitive Bidding Advertised Lally (LCB) would be applied for c.vil works estimated
to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent. As for new schools (Category A) it is expected that
about 20 contracts of about US$90,000 would be procured under LCB; such small contracts
are unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders. For primary school rehabilitation and
extension, which would be scattered geographically and spread out over time, the estimated
average contract size is about US$50,000 and thus also unlikely to be of interest to foreign
bidders. During negotiations assurances were given that LCB procedures would follow local
advertising, public bid opening, clearly state evaluation criteria for comparison of bids, and
provide for awards to the lowest evaluated bidders. During appraisal, it was ascertained that
a sufficient number of local contractors would be interested in participating in the LCB
tenders to ensure adequate competition. As is usual, any interested foreign bidders eligible
under IDA Guidelines would not be precluded from participating in the tenders. The first
LCB documents would be reviewed by IDA prior to their release to bidders.
(c) School Extension and Rehabilitation. This component (Category B in Table 4.4) is
unidentified for procurement purposes as the exact mix of sub-projeb s to be financed would
be determined on the basis of appraisals by the SRPU of proposals from PTAs and NGOs.
The distribution within Category B is an estimate based on past SRPU experience. School
extensions and rehabilitation would be implemented either by contractors (under the rules
specified in para 4.8 (b)) or by communities according to criteria agreed upon under the IDA-
financed SRP (Annex 10). To ensure sustainability of the rehabilitated infrastructure through
sufficient attenticn to maintenance, communities must be fully committed to their school. To
assure this commitment, the Project would support communities' implementation of some of
the school rehabilitation work. Such works would be undertaken using self-help procedures
where the PITA would provide the unskilled labor and purchase the materials for the
rehabilitation at a fair and reasonable price under the procurement rules for purchase of goods
and services. The SRPU would assist with bulk purchases of materials where such purchases
would improve the cost-efficiency and logistics. The Project would also pay for skilled labor
obtained through local shopping arrangements satisfactory to IDA ("Other" column under B



-35-
(1) in Table 4.4. Such activities would be limited to works, with an estimated cost of
US$30,000 or less per contract. The implementing agency for this component, the SRPU,
has positive experience with such procurement and is assisting communities with similar
activities under the IDA-financed Social Recovery Project. The SRPU's strict financial
controls and assistance with bulk procurement of materials for civil works has assured good
quality of work at a reasonable price. Regular technical audits by independent agencies would
evaluate this procedure, and the procedure along with all procurement procedures is subject to
review under the mid-project review (para. 4.30).
(d) Force Account. Small rehabilitation works to improve the security of the ECZ and MOE
buildings would be performed under force account procedures using the labor of the Building
Section of the Ministry. The Building Section has suostantial experience in this field and is a
cost-effective provider of such services. Furthermore, as there is concern over the security
of the examination papers and teachers' records, IDA has agreed to let the MOE use its own
pre-screened work-force for such activities. Finally, these works must be carried out without
disrupting existing operations, and the Building Section's crews are experienced in similar
activities. IDA financing of force account will not exceed an aggregate amount of
US$300,000.
4.9       Procurement of Goods: To the extent possible, bid packagas for the procurement of
equipment, vehicles, furniture and materials required under the project would be grouped into
homogeneous packages in quantities that would achieve economies of scale and timely and efficient
delivery (and installation). Procurement of goods would be undertaken as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding procedures in accordance with IDA Procurement
Guidelines would be applied for bid packages estimated to cost more than US$100,000
equivalent. In comparison to bids for goods to be procured through ICB, domestic
manufacturers, with a minimum of 20 percent domestic value added of the ex-factory costs,
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent, or the existing customs duty, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports. A large share of learning materials and
textbooks are expected to be procured using this method.
(b) Local Competitive Bidding procedures would be employed for bid packages below
US$100,000 but above US$40,000, up to a total aggregate amount of US$5.4 million, as
outlined in para. 4.8 (b). Such procedures would be applied for the smaller print-runs of
education materials (syllabuses and teachers' guides) and furniture for schools, both of which
are estimated to have small-sized contracts and to be so widely distributed geographically as
not to be of interest to foreign bidders.
(c) Prudent ShopngnE procedures would be applied in the procurement of goods estimated to
cost below US$40,000 equivalent per package up to a total aggregate amount of US$0.8
million equivalent. Price quotations for the required items would be obtained from at least
three independent suppliers.



-36-
4.10      Other l unt: Consultants' services would be procured in accordance with
principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.' Other items,
including incremental recurrent cost items, travel/per diems, salary costs and workshops/training
would be procured using regular Govermnent procedures.
4.11      IDA Review of Bid Packages and Contract Awards: Bidding documents for the Project
would be based on IDA's Sample Bidding Documents. At neggtiatin arogriat proc
tacking system and reporting requirements were agreed upon (para. 6.3(b)). Bidding packages for
civil works and goods valued at over US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review
of procurement documentation, resulting in a coverage of about 70 percent of the total estimated value
of such contracts. Such a low percentage is justified in view of the standard nature of the many
scattered contracts, and takes into consideration the increased work-load involved in reviewing more
contracts. Smaller packages would be subject to random post-award review by IDA. Such reviews
are expected to cover about half of the rest of the estimated contract value. Terms of reference, short
lists, curricula vitae and draft contracts for consultants would be reviewed by IDA prior to
appointment of consultants.
4.12      Project Implementer's Procurement Experience: ZEPIU and SRPU both have
experience with IDA procurement guidelines. The SRPU is implementing the Social Recovery
Project in a fully satisfactory manner, and ZEPIU has implemented projects for the Bank in the past
and no problems have been encountered during its implementation of the PPF. NORAD is providing
technical assistance to ZEPIU on procurement. This will be supplemented by one local consultant
and training financed under the Project. SRPU is receiving assistance from the EC and IDA under
the Social Recovery Project. Training will be provided to the project procurement officer, and an
IDA procurement expert will participate in the project launch and mid-term review workshops. With
this support the appraisal mission has confirmed the agencies' ability to carry out procurement as
described above.
C. DisbursnpnU
4.13      The Project would be disbursed over a period of about six years, and disbursements
would be made in accordance with Table 4.5. The disbursement of 100 percent against rehabilitation
costs financed by the SRPU is equivalent to disbursing 80 percent of project cost, as communities
contribute 20 percent on average. A disbursement profile is given in Annex 3. The projected
disbursement schedule for the Project is about one year faster than the average profile for past
projects in Zambia. This is justifiable, as past projects have been implemented in an unfavorable
macroeconomic situation including sustained periods of suspension of disbursement by the Bank
Group.
4.14      All disbursements from the IDA credit account would be fully documented, except
expenditures for (a) contracts and purchase orders for goods and services or overseas training
programs valued at less that US$50,000 equivalent; (b) local training programs; (c) self-help school
rehabilitation; and (d) incremental operating costs for which disbursements would be made against
certified statements of expenditure (SOE). Documentation would be retained by the MOE and SRPU
for review by Bank supervision missions and project auditors.



-37.
Table 4.5: Dhsburseunntlu Catgories
(US$ million)
IDA        Percentage of Expenditure
Disbursement Catego                 Alloation       to be Financed2'
1. Civil Works
(a) New Schools                   7.0         100% of foreign and 90% of local
(O) Rehabilitation and Extension
of existing schools (SRPU)      2.0        100%
2. Construction Materials for I (b)   2.5        100%
3. Education Materials                8.9        100%
4. Furniture, Vehicles, Equipment     3.5        100%
5. Consultant Services, Training
and Studies                      3.7         100%
6. Incremental Operating Costs'
(a) of MOE                        0.9         100%
(b) of the SRPU                   0.1         100%
7. Project Preparation Adviance       0.2        Amount due
8. Unallocated                        3.2
4.15      S:cal A         To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, two special accounts
in commercial banks acceptable to IDA. The first special account would be managed and operated by
the SRPU, which would be the executing agency for the extension and rehabilitation of physical
facilities (Categories l(b), 2 and 6(b) of the disbursement schedule), while the second account would
be managed by the MOE, the executing agency for all other components. IDA would make an initial
deposit of US$0.4 million to the SRPU Account and US$2.0 million to the MOE Account. The
Special Accounts would be replenished on the basis of evidence acceptable to IDA of eligible
disbursements made. Withdrawal applications would be submitted monthly and would be supported
by full documentation except for items eligible for disbursement on the basis of certified Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs).
4.16      Retroactive Finandig: Withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1.0
million will be made for expenditures incurred before the date of the credit agreement but after April
26, 1992. Such retroactive financing is considered necessary by the Government in order to facilitate
the putting in place of central and regional offices and staff to ensure the speedy execution of the
project, especially of the physical facilities and learning materials components.
Z/    Net of taxes
I/    Includes office supplies, fuel and travel.



-38-
4.17      Project Account: To ensure that the funds contributed by the Government to the project
are available in a consistent and timely manner, Government would establish a Project Account with
an initial deposit of K50,000,000 (K50 million) to be replenished on a quarterly basis. I
establishment of the Account would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
D. Prolet Managament and imnlementation
4.18      The responsibility for oversight of the implementation of the project rests with a Project
Steering Committee, chaired by the DPS (TA) of the MOE, consisting of the Director of the Exams
Council, the Director of Planning, the Chairman of the Zambia Education Materials Coordination
Council (ZEMCC), the Chief Inspector of Schools, the Director CDC, the Assistant Secretary for
Technical Cooperation, an UNZA representative, and the Director of ZEPIU as Executive Secretary
(Figure 4. 1).
4.19      A Project Coordinator would be appointed who would have overall responsibility for
project implementation and co-ordination under the general guidance of the ZEPIU Director and the
steering committee. The project would finance the following TA positions in ZEPIU: (1) Project
Coordinator; (2) Assistant Construction Coordinator, Ndola; (3) Assistant Procurement Officer; and
(4) Project Accountant, all with qualifications, terms of reference and contracts acceptable to IDA.
The Project Coordinator would be in charge of the daily administration and coordination of the
Project, including implementation, monitoring and reporting. The Project Coordinator and the
Project Accountant would be placed in the office of the Director of ZEPIU. The Assistant
Procurement Officer would report to the Chief Procurement Officer of ZEPIU, who would be
financed by NORAD until 1994. The Project Coordinator would get support for the day-to-day
management of the Project from the Project Implementation Team consisting of the Project
Accountant and Procurement Officer, plus those responsible for the implementation of each
component (see Figure 4.1 below for complete list). ADpointment of members of the Project
ImDlementation Team would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.20      To ensure the longer-run sustainability of the project interventions through capacity
building within the MOE, ZEPIU responsibilities, skilled staff and better systems should be taken
over by the relevant line agencies in the MOE. To this effect the Government will by MayMU 31, 14
furnish to IDA an action plan (including a time-table). acceptable to D)A for the reorganization of the
responsibilities of ZEPIU in relation to MOE. and thereafter implement such action plan according to
the timetable. Key areas for making the action plan acceptable to IDA would be that the plan would:
(1) show a de facto reintegration of ZEPIU activities into the relevant branches of MOE2/; (2) take
the proposed new management structure of MOE (para. 2.40) into consideration; and (3) ensure
continued smooth implementation of both Government and donor-funded investment programs. Such
an action plan needs to be coordinated and agreed upon with other donors in the sector. ZEPIU has
been successful in implementing several donor projects in a coordinated fashion, and it is important
for the MOE to retain this skill.
2/ De jure, ZEPIU is already a part of the Ministry.



-39-
|Steering Committee 
Director ZEPIU
Project Coordinator
f                    |~~~~~~Project Implementation Team
|Deputy Director ZEPIU|
Accounts   Building Section      Emu        Procurement
Project    Ccnstruction         FINNIDA      Project
Account.   Coordinator           team    Procur. Officer
Deputy
Construction
Coordinator
(Ndola)
Steering Committee:
Deputy Permanent Secretary (TA), Chair
Director, ZEPIU, Executive Secretary
Chief Inspector of Schools
Director, Planning Unit (MOE)
Director, Exams Council (ECZ)
Director, Curriculum Development Center (CDC)
Chairman, Zambia Education Materials Coordination Committee (ZEMCC)
Representative, University of Zambia (UNZA)
Proiect ImDlementation Team:
Project Coordinator, ZEPIU (Team leader)
Technical Programme Adviser (Construction Coor.), MOE Buildings Section
Project Coordinator, SRPU
Exams Component Coordinator, Exams Council
Training and Management Coordinator, Inspectorate
Studies Coordinator, UNZA Director, EMU
Project Accountant, ZEPIU
Procurement Specialist and Assistant Procurement Officer, ZEPIU
Representative, !.'Iniatry of Works and Supply (MWS)
Figure 4.1: Projact Management and Implementation



-40-
4.21      The infrastructure component consists of two sub-components:
(1) The construction of new scioolh would be implemented by ZEPIU in cooperation with the
MWS, using the services of the District Building Officers and District Education Officers.
The works would be implemented by use of private contractors. FINNIDA would support the
Technical Programme Adviser (Construction Coordinator) within the MOE Buildings Section
in Lusaka, and IDA would support an Assistant Construction Coordinator in ZEPIU's office
in Ndola. In each of the three urban areas to be covered by the Project, the MOE would
appoint two Building Officers to do the site inspection of the schools. To facilitate this work,
the building officers would be provided with one vehicle per district.
(2) The rehabilitation and extension of schools would be managed by the SRPU using their
existing procedures (see Annex 10 for a description). Working with the District Building
Officers and the relevant PTA, the SRPU would identify and appraise suitable works at
schools in the three urban areas. The project would support the opening of a SRPU regional
office in Ndola to be placed together with the ZEPIU Assistant Construction Coordinator.
The component coordinator would be the Project Coordinator of SRPU.
4.22      For the educational ntials component the coordinator would be the Director of the
EMU. Under the FINNIDA-supported ZEMP project the Director would have the support of
advisers for production, publishing, distribution, and finance and accounting. The EMU Director
would provide technical specifications to the project coordinator for all printing, book and materials
purchases, and distribution activities. Printing and procurement would be done in accordance with
IDA regulations. On receipt from printers and suppliers, books and materials would be warehoused
either with ZEPIU or ZEPH. Using the ZEMP distribution network, the Director EMU would have
the books and materials distributed to the district and zonal levels; using project funds and the
SHAPE or similar network, or local contractors, the Director would have these items further
distributed from the districts/zones to the schools.
4.23      With guidance from the ZEMCC, the Director EMU would provide terms of reference to
the project coordinator for the book development and publishing industry studies. The Project
Coordinator would secure the services of consultants for these studies in accordance with IDA
guidelines and procedures.
4.24      The Director of the ECZ would be responsible for the coerdination of the implementation
of the examInalons aommon . The Project would finance a TA position in the research and test
development unit, which would be responsible for implementation of the component.
4.25      The implementation of the management comgonent will be coordinated by an MOE
Management Development Coordinating Committee (MDCC), under the chairmanship of the Chief
Inspector of Schools (CIS), with membership consisting of representatives of different sections of
MOE and outside institutions, with responsibility for implementing sub-components. A Component
Coordinator will be attached to this committee. He or she will be financed under a local TA contract
and report to the CIS. The Component Coordinator will work with the Manpower Development
Office, SHAPE and the UNZA School of Education for the implementation of the training activities,
and with the Teachers' Information Manager, the NESIS National Team and the Teaching Service
Commission for the improvement of the teachers' records system. The Teachers' Information
Manager will also be included as a member of the NESIS National Team



-41-
4.26      The studies component would be coordinated by UNZA, using the services of local
research networks and local and foreign personnel, as appropriate. In consultation with MOE and
with participating donors, UNZA would provide specifications to the Project Coordinator on the
modalities for conducting studies. The Project Coordinator would secure consultants for IDA-funded
studies in accordance with IDA guidelines and procedures, and for other studies in accordance with
regular Government (or financing donor agency) procedures.
4.27      After credit effectiveness a launch workshop would be held including all implementing
agencies, to facilitate a successful start to the project. Every year during implementation a workshop
would be held to review progress under the project, prepare detailed work-plans for the following
twelve months and revise the overall implementation schedule. Such workshops would coincide with
IDA supervision missions. A full supervision schedule is presented in Annex 5.
4.28      Project implementation is expected to take five years beginning November 1992. The
Project would be completed by December 31, 1997 and would close by June 30, 1998. The
implementation schedule is given in Annex 4.
4.29      Capadty for Imnlementation: With the TA support outlined above the institutions
involved would be able to implement the Project in a satisfactory manner. The Project is designed to
be integrated into ongoing Government donor-sponsored programs and will, therefore, be able to
build on other capacity building initiatives. The coordinating agency (ZEPIU) has substantial
experience from managing past Bank-Group projects and past and ongoing donor projects. Under the
project, plans would be developed for the re-integration of ZEPIU into MOE, where the expertise
would be beneficial to the strengthening of the MOE. SRPU is implementing the IDA-financed Social
Recovery Project very well and would be able to handle the difficult infrastructure rehabilitation
component based on its ongoing activities in this field.
E. Reporting and Monitoring
4.30      Rgertin : The Director of ZEPIU, with the assistance of the Project Coordinator,
would be responsible for preparation of progres reports eve  six months. Such reports must be
submitted to IDA and should include financial accounts, physical progress, evaluations of consultant
services and other TA, progress under procurement and disbursement, a summary of monitoring
activities and measures taken to implement the findings of monitoring, and a work plan for the
coming six months. These reports would form the basis for an annual review of implementation by
IDA and the co-financiers (para. 4.27). No later than October 31, 1995 or when half of the credit
funds have been committed, whichever comes first, a mid-prolect review would be held and
agreement reached on possible restructuring of groject components. including possible revision b
procurement procedures: and detailed implementation plans for the last half of the Project. The
Government would also provide a final reWort on implementation experience and ProWect outcom=
within six months of the Project's closing date.
4.31      Monitoring: The regular reporting would be used for monitoring of administrative
records. Progress at the annual and midterm implementation reviews would be judged according to
the following administrative indicators in comparison with work programs, as well as the performance
indicators given in Annex 6:
(a) Number of books and other learning materials printed, produced and distributed and resulting
changes in pupil/book ratios in project intervention areas;



-42-
(1) Number of classrooms rehabilitated or constructed and resi -x.g increase in access;
(c) Number of hours of instruction per grade per year in expanded and rehabilitated schools
(para. 2.19);
(d) Number and gender distribution of students benefitting from a) and b);
(e) Number and gender distribution of head teachers, inspectors and education officers trained;
(f) Number of managers in ECZ trained, time spent processing each exam, compared with past
performance;
(g) Amount of TA provided and detailed evaluation of same by local counterparts
(h) Purchase and evaluation of computers and other equipment.
A preliminary survey would be carried out at the beginning of the project to establish baseline data on
the performance of schools as a basis for making comparisons at later stages of the project. At mid-
project review, the results of the studies and surveys described below would be summarized. The
studies and the summary would be discussed with a wide audience including PIAs, G;overnment,
donors and the private sector at an Implementation workshop.
4.32     . Several of the studies to be financed under the Project would provide information on the
impact of project interventions. For example, the study on gender issues (Annex 8) would provide
inputs to the monitoring of the gender-specific impact of project interventions.
4.33      A beneficiary assessment will be carried out as the principal external monitoring tool
(Annex 13). This assessment would help gain an appreciation of beneficiaries' perceptions of both
the more general aspects of education and specific issues relating to school attendance-particularly
girls' attendance-and the provision of education services. In this way, the assessment aims to
determine parents' attitudes towards issues related to the utiliqy f learning, and the corresponding
value attached to school attendanc. On a more specific level, the study would assess families'
impressions of the immediate learning environment, including school facilities, teachers, learning
materials, etc. The study also aims to assess with greater exactitude the strengths and weaknesses of
local government, NGOs and community organizationis, as expressed by community members. The
ultimate objective of the assessment would be to ascertain what concrete new policies or actions could
be established to improve access to, effectiveness of, and participation in education provision by
communities and households. By way of feedback to project managers, information elicited through
the assessment would be directly integrated into the planning and implementation process such that the
services and facilities provided correspond to and are informed by beneficiaries' concerns and
preferences.
4.34      The principal methodology employed will be conversational interviewing. Focus group
interviews, case studies and participant observation will also be utilized. The research will be
undertaken by a team affiliated with the Rural Development Studies Bureau at UNZA, under the
coordination of the Bureau's Director. The Bureau is presently carrying out the beneficiary
assessment under the IDA-financed SRP, and the education assessment will be built into this ongoing
study. The assessment will be carried out in the urban areas of Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola and would



-43-
consist of two phases. The first phase, lasting six weeks, will have a double function: on the one
hand, it will serve as a baseline study to establish pre-existing conditions, levels of awareness, social
and economic indicators, enrollment rates, etc. It will also assess the likely benefits, as articulated by
the communities, of primary school construction/rehabilitation projects for which the sites, serving the
communities in question, have been pre-selected. In this vein, recommendations could be presented
suggesting modifications of aspects of the projects so as to increase their effectiveness. The first
phase is planned to coincide with the Project being declared effective. The second phase would ser
as a monitoring exercise and will be comprised of the follow-up assessments in the second, third,
fourth and fifth years of the project, determining the changes associated with the project, as perceived
by the beneficiaries.
4.35      Using the 1991 "Social Dimensions of Adjustment Survey" as a baseline, a subsequent
series of monitoring surveys to be carried out by the Central Statistical Office (CSO) are under
discussion. Such surveys would allow monitoring of national and regional changes in quantitative
terms. The school mapping exercise would provide baseline information on the status of schools and
would be followed up with periodic surveys to monitor the availability of education inputs.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.36      The Government would maintain separate accounts for the project. Project accoun
including the Special Accounts. would be audited annually in accordance with the March 1982 Bank
:GUideling for Financial Renorting and Auditing of Prjects Financed by the World Bank." Audit of
SOEs would be included in the annual audits, the reports for which would be furnished to IDA within
six months of the end of each Government fiscal year. Over the past 2-3 years, Government has
submitted audit reports to IDA in a timely manner for most projects; some problems have been
apparent, mainly wish regard to the accounting and audit of SOEs. To help address these problems,
the project-financed accountant would, as part of his/her duties, oversee project financial management
and would be specifically designated to maintain project accounts. If necessary, appropriate training
in IDA procedures would be financed under the Project. In addition, the project would include funds
to contract a specialized private firm to carry out the annual audits under the supervision of the
Auditor General. Appointment of an auditor to perform these audits would be a condition for credit
,efeciv,eness.
G. Status of Credit Preparation
4.37      Based on recommendations of the identification mission for the Project, during which
strong concern was expressed about the dispersion of the functions of the education sector into
separate ministries, GRZ took decisive action in January 1992 and merged these ministries, putting all
formal education from primary through tertiary and teacher training under one ministry (MOE). In
mid-1991, Government set up a team to develop a strategy for the development of education in
Zambia. Their report, Focus on Learning, Strategiesfor the Development of School Education in
Zambia, has been used as the principal guide to Project design and content. A draft of this report
was discussed in a seminar for senior policy-makers in February 1992. The discussions led to the
endorsement of the report's findings by GRZ. The process of formally adopting the document's
recommendations as the official strategy for education development is ongoing.
4.38      The Govermnent also commissioned a school mapping study, focusing on the three major
urban areas. The teams that prepared this report and the "Focus on Learning" report have been
heavily involved in the preparation of this Project. In addition, several donors, namely, ODA, SIDA,



-44-
FINN1DA, the Netherlands Government, UNICEF and WHO, have been involved in Project
preparation and have provided staff resources for project identification. All the preparation missions
have held extensive briefing and de-briefing sessions with the donors involved in the education sector
in Zanbia.
4.39      Speciflcally, the following steps had been tken which made the Project ready for
negotiations:
(a)  If  for most of the new schools were identified through the school mapping exercise and
have been set aside by Government. Other schools to be rehabilitated would be identified as
per criteria described in Chapter III.
(b) Building Designs ad Standards. AfD;3 has commissioned a firm of architects to prepare
new building designs that would use local materials and be more financially sustainable - a
draft is currently under review. As a condition of effectiveness, Government would submit
finalized designs satisfactory to IDA.
(c) Technical Assistance. The technical assistance and training requirements of the project have
been identified and are listed in Annex 9. Terms of reference for long term spec.alists have
also been drafted (Annex 9).
(d) Education Materials. The exact titles and number of copies needed of each title have been
identified and agreed, upon by all parties involved (Annex 7).
(e) Imolementation Te_am. Key members of the implementation team are already in place,
including the Directors of EMU and ZEPIU. ZEPIU has been closely involved in the
preparation of the Project and has experience in managing other World Bank Group funds.
V. BENEFIFS AND RISKS
5.1       Prlect Beneft: The benefits of the project would be long-term improvements in
human capital through improved access to better quality education. The immediate beneficiaries of
the project would be about 1.5 million primary school pupils and about 5,000 education managers.
Learning achievements would be boosted through the provision of about 5.3 million textbooks,
teachers' guides and basic teaching materials. The reduction of triple and quadruple shifts and the
reduction in class size through rehabilitation and construction of physical facilities would improve the
learning environment. Through gradual elimination of the bottlenecks at the Examinations Council,
delays in start-up of secondary school classes would be eliminated. The examinations system would
be streamlined and made appropriate for monitoring progress of both individual schools and the
global reform program. Management at the individual school level would be improved by training of
head-teachers and education officers and strengthening of their support system through improvements
at the. inspectorate. In addition, the project would:
(a) support the economic recovery process both because it would strengthen the human resource
bas2 that would catalyze economic growth and because it is a powerful socio-political
instrument for maintaining popular support for the adjustment program;



-45-
(b) provide inputs that would stem further erosion of the sector and start a process of sectoral
policy reform that would help the sector become self-sustaining; and
(c) strengthen local capacity for research and analysis, through the studies component.
5.2        Environmental Impact: The project finances school inputs and infrastructure
rehabilitation with minor effects on the environment. The project will also finance the construction of
20 new schools for which sites have been set aside and the supporting infrastructure already put in
place. The selection and appraisal criteria for inclusion of schools to be rehabilitated includes
environmental concerns. The provision of water and sanitation facilities and the health education sub-
component would have positive effects on the environment.
5.3       Gender-SRecifig iMDlact: Even though enrollment rates have remained relatively
constant between the genders, girls have suffered disproportionately from the precipitous drop in
access and quality. This can be seen from the higher rate of progression and better examination
results for boys. It is expected that the improvements in access and quality that would be brought
about by this project would also have a greater effect on girls' education, with all the related benefits
that this would have. The project addresses gender-specific concerns by (a) supporting improvements
in the sanitary facilities to take into account the special needs of mature, adolescent girls; (b) gender
sensitivity training for education managers; (c) introducing gender appraisal criteria in the
development of textbooks and the setting of examination questions. In addition, the Project would
support a specific study on gender issues in education.
5.4       Poverty Dimension: The project would contribute to poverty alleviation in various ways.
The construction of new schools in low-income peri-urban areas of Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola would
increase educational provision for children from poor families and would reduce the need for such
children to travel long distances in search of school admission. Sin^e schools in poor urban areas
suffer more than those in better-off areas in terms of overcrowding and of triple/quadruple sessions
and in terms of closures because of cholera in the community, considerable benefits will accrue to the
poorer sectors by targeting extension and rehabilitation work for schools with multiple sessions and/or
schools that have been closed due to cholera in the community. Providing educational materials,
strengthening the administrative and professional competence of school heads, and facilitating regular
and meaningful interactions between inspectors and schools have potential for effecting significant
quality improvements in schools in rural and poor urban areas. In addition, the project would
reinforce other ongoing efforts to alleviate poverty, particularly through the employment possibilities
for unskilled labor in poor urban locations while school construction, rehabilitation or extension is
underway. In a broader perspective, the project would bring long-term benefits in human capital that
would contribute to economic development and a reduction in overall poverty levels.
5.5       Er ject Risks: There are two main risks associated with this project. The first is that
Government would allocate insufficient resources to primary education either because of a
deterioration in the macro-economic situation or because resources are diverted to post-primary
education. This risk is minimnied by (a) the conditionality attached to the Project; and (b) the
diversification of the revenue base of government in the cour-e of adjustment. The second risk is
delayed project implementation due to weak implementation capacity. This risk is minimized by (a)
management training for core implementation agencies; (b) targeted technical assistance for the
implementation of them; (c) the relative simplicity of the Project; and (d) substantial donor
involvement in the Project, which would provide more broad-based implementation support.



-46-
5.6       Proect Sustainablt. The impact of the project as described above are likely to be
sustaineJ1 for the following reasons:
(a) Increased funding for education is more likely than in the past because (a) the revenue base of
the Government is broadened by the adjustment program; and (b) Government is establishing
a core expenditure program of which education is a part. In addition, the agreed increases in
Government budgets far outstrip the additional costs implied by the maintenance of project-
supported infrastructure, equipment and vehicles.
(b) Each school affected by the infrastructure component would create a maintenance fund which
would be held at each school and whose operation would be monitored and strengthened by an
ongoing FINNIDA-sponsored program. Communities, through PTAs will develop
"ownership' of the educatioJ system through their involvement, especially in the
infrastructure sub-component. The quality and intensity of such involvement and the basis for
continued parental support would be monitored by the beneficiary assessment. Necessary
adjustments to project implementation and scope would be made based on the assessment's
findings.
(c) The development and implementation of the NAt3nal Book Policy would ensure the
sustainability of the educational materials component.
(d) Capacity will be built in ZEPIU, several Departments of MOE and in ECZ to ensure the
sustainability of institutional development efforts. The training program for education
managers will help bWild a stock of human capital essential for sustaining quality
improvements at school level. All Project components will be implemented by existing
agencies and thus will provide important on-the-job training for key personnel. ZEPIU's
responsibilities will be re-organized to ensure that vital experiences gained there are integrated
into the running of MOE (para. 4.20).
5.7       The main  'k to sustainability would be another break in relations between the donor
community and Zambia because of faltering efforts on the adjustment program. The main risk of this
happening is the political sustainability of the program. This Project, the IDA-financed Social
Recovery Project, and other social improvement programs, help minimize this risk by improving the
situation for poor groups negatively affected by the economic crisis and possible short-run negative
consequences of the adjustment program.



47-
VI. AQRWM=, ASSURANCES AM  I                 1O1ENDATIONS
6.1       During negotiations, assurances and agreements obtained from Government during
appraisal on the following issues were confirmed:
(a) financing arrangements for the project including Government and donor contribution (para.
4.6);
(b) establishment of a satisfactory implementation structure and the staffing of ZEPIU (para.
4.18-4.19);
(c) ensure the support to the Director of EMU from the FINNIDA-financed support team (para.
4.22);
6.2       The following condition for credit negotiations was successfully mt:
(a) that the Government has agreed to gradually increase the budget of the Ministry of Education
to at least 15 percent of total government expenditures by 1995 and has guaranteed that not
less than 40 percent of the education budget would go to primary education. It was also
agreed that for the intervening years, the Ministry of Education would receive not less than
13.8 percent c. the total Government budget in 1993 and 14.4 percent of the same in 1994
(para. 2.13).
6.3    During negotiations Government agreement was confirmed on:
(a) LCB procedures acceptable to IDA (para. 4.8(b));
(b) an acceptable procurement tracking and reporting system (para 4.30); and
(c) the following conditions of credit effectiveness:
(1) release of the Examinations Council Building for the sole use of the ECZ (para. 3.12);
(2) submission of approved affordable school building design acceptable to Government and
IDA (para. 3.19);
(3) appointment of key members of the Project Implementation Team (para. 4.20) and of
consultants necessary to assist the Project Implementation Team, including an accountant,
a procurement specialist, and an auditing firm (para. 4.36); and
(4) establish a Project Account for GRZ contribution to project costs and deposit
K50,000,000 (50 million) in the account as an initial deposit which GRZ will replenish or
a quarterly basis (para. 4.17).
(d) the following dad covena:
(1) the Government to develop and adopt the strategy document acceptable to the Association
for the development of p:imary and secondary school education no later than May 31,
1993 (para. 3.1);



-48-
(2) the Government to take measures necessary to improve the efficiency and objectivity of
the inspectorate no later than August 31, 1993 (para. 2.43);
(3) by May 31, 1994 furnish to IDA an action plan (including a time-table), acceptable to
IDA for the reorganization of the responsibilities of ZEPIU in relation to MOE, and
thereafter implement such action plan according to the timetable (paras. 2.52 and 4.20);
(4) no later than September 30, 1995 so that the following could be discussed during the mid-
term review, the Government would (i) furnish to IDA a draft plan to revise the
management structure of the MOE (para. 2.40); (ii) finalize four of the policy studies -
education financing, management, teachers and gender (para. 3.26); and (iii) furnish to
IDA a draft book development policy for the provision and development of learning
materials (para. 3.8); and
(5) the Government to make training of head-teachers a condition of their appointment no
later than May 31, 1995 (para. 2.45).
6.4       Agreement was reached with the Government on the following reoing ruent
(para. 4.30):
(a) the Director of ZEPIU, with the assistance of the Project Coordinator, would be responsible
for preparation of progress reports every six months. Such reports must be submitted to IDA
and should include financial accounts, physical progress, evaluations of consultant services
and other TA, progress under procurement and disbursement, a summary of monitoring
activities and measures taken to implement the findings of monitoring, and a work plan for
the coming six months;
(b) together with IDA and co-financiers, GRZ would perform an annual review of
implementation;
(c) no later than October 31, 1995 or when half of the credit funds have been committed,
whichever comes first, a mid-project review would be held and agreement reached on possible
adjustments of project components and detailed implementation plans for the last half of the
Project; and
(d) within six months of the Project's closing date, a final report on implementation experience
and Project outcome.
6.5       Regarding audits, agreement was reached with the Government on submission of an
annual audit performed by an independent auditor under the supervision of the Auditor General in
accordance with IDA guidelines no later than six months after the end of each Government fiscal year
(para. 4.36).



Aa    ](a) ;nlnn
Page 1 of 6
-49-
P-RIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLZMET AS PERCENTAGE
OF SCHOOL-AGED POPULAION
Grade 1 Enrollments as Percentage of 7-year-old Population
Province                        12X             195             99
Lusaka                          64.1           71.2            55.7
Copperbelt                      78.3           108.8           79.9
Central                         91.9           102.8          100.8
Northern                       105.2           129.6          106.0
Western                         96.4           105.1          113.7
Eastern                         88.0            88.3           83.5
Luapula                         96.1            83.4          107.7
Northwestern                    97.4           106.7          122.3
Southern                       101.2           102.6           97.2
ZAMBIA                          88.4           105.3           89.7
Total Primary Enrollmonts as Percentage of 7-13 year-ld Population
i980           imu1985
Lusaka                          81.6            87.7           74.7
Copperbelt                      86.3           103.5           93.0
Central                         92.2           108.1          105.6
Northern                        87.9           105.1           86.9
Western                         92.6            96.0           94.4
Eastern                         77.8            78.7           83.2
Luapula                         84.9           94.1            87.1
Northwestern                    83.6           111.7          104.1
Southern                        99.0           100.5           96.0
ZAMBIA                          87.3           96.3            88.4



A4nnex lfa)-NnObS#
Page 2 of 6
-50-
GORLS AS A PERCENTAGE OF SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS
1280       1985        122M 1987                         1289
PRIMARY SCHOOL
Grade 1               49.3       49.2        49.2        49.5       49.2        49.7
Grade 5               46.1       47.1        47.0        47.1       47.6        47.9
Grade 7               40.6       41.8        42.2        42.8       43.2        45.1
Grades 1-7            46.8       47.1        47.2        47.4       47.6        48.2
SECONDARY SCHOOL
Grade 8               37.8       41.8        38.5        38.8       35.7        41.2
Grade 12              28.0       33.6        32.9        30.8       34.4        33.9
Grades 8-12           35.1       36.6        38.0        36.7       37.3        38.7



Annex l(a) Erllments
Page 3 of 6
-51-
EDUCATION INDICATORS IN SOME MAJOR TOWNS. 1991
Gross    Gross
Population        Enrollment     Admission Admission
TOWN             I y.Q.   7-13 y.o.   Ur,.l    Gr.1-7    Rat    -B=
Lusaka Urban          34,443    192,008   16,704    128,647  48.5    67.0
Kitwo                 12,070   73,106    10,210   79,794    84.6     109.1
Ndola Urban           12,921    77,620   8,705    64,048    67.4     82.5
Kabwe                 5,716    35,131    5,022    34,776    87.9     98.9
Luanshya              5,411    32,260   4,215    32,931    77.9      102.1
Kalalushi             3,265    34,455    2,068    15,090   63.3      43.8
Chingola              6,556    40,285   5,186    36,108   79.1       89.6
Chilalabombwe         3,078    31,170   2,005     13,195   65.1      42.3
Mufulia               6,113    39,009    5,404    35,977    88.4     92.2
Source: Kaluba et al. Urban Primary School Development: School Mapping, Jan. 1992.



Annex I(a) Enrlhnen
-52-                          Page 4 of 6
GROWTH RA OF PRIMARY SCHQO= ENROLLMENT
1980198        1985-1990       1980-1220
Grade 1                       6.33            0.91           3.58
Grade 5                       5.56           2.07            3.80
Grades 1-4                    5.00            1.44           3.22
Grades 5-7                    5.80            1.78           3.77
Grades 1-7                    5.30            1.58           3.43



53-                      Page S of 6
RVATE SCHOLS
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
No. of Private    Enrollments   Priv. Sch. Enroll-
Schools     in Grades 1-7    ment as % of Total
Primary Enrollment
1980             18             5,820              0.6
1981             23             7,132              0.7
1982             23             7,301              0.7
1983             27             8,329              0.7
1984             29             7,761              0.6
1985             37             8,157              0.6
1986             42            11,493              0.8
1987             38             9,356              0.7
1988             n.a.          11,679              0.8
1989             n.a.          13,400              0.9
SECONDARY SCHOOLS
No. of Private    Enrollments   Priv. Sch. Enroll-
Schools    in Grades 8-12   ment as % of Total
Secondary Enrollment
1980              13            2,968               3.1
1981              18            4,172               4.2
1982              27            6,542               6.2
1983              39            8,573               7.4
1984              36            9,288               7.4
198S              39            8,314              6.3
1986             n/a              n/a               n/a
1987             n/a            8,691               6.2
1988              47            8,197               5.1



-54-               Am  lfgi EaroLme
Page 6 f 6
ZAMBIA 1989/90
GRADE/GENDER DISTRIBUTION
GRADE          =1 MALES 1989/90      FEMALES 1989/90
HIGHER EDUCATION
TWELVE
ELEVEN
TEN -
NINE
EIGHT
SEVEN
SIX .:,
FIVE
FOUR -
THREE
TOV
3 uT   i>  :.-: .-- ... ........
ONE.....
180   100    50    0      so    100   150
THOUSANDS
Souroes MOE Stats/Kelly, 1991/2
Primary data ore from 1990
Scoondary date are from 1909
ZAMBIA 1980
GRADE/GENDER DISTRIBUTION
GRADE                MALES 1980      FEMALES 1980
HIGHER EDUCATION -
TWELVE
ELEVEN
TEN
NINE
EIGHT
SEVEN
SiX
FIVE
FOUR
THREE
TWO
ONE
150   100    60    0      60    100   160
THOUSANDS
Sources MOE Stats/Kelly, 1991/2



Annex llb) sedue
-55-Page I of S
no=_CEvINNDItUR ON EDUCAION AS A PICRENTAGE OF GNPe
AS A PERCENTAGE OE 1atA PUBLC EXPENDITIo
AND PER ME1s1BEI OE THE PPLTO
As percentage
As percentage    of total public    Per Membbr of Population
of ONE        pennditure      1285 Kwacha        1295 Do11a
1980                 4.5              7.7             50.8             18.7
1981                 4.5             10.9             54.1             20.0
1982                 6.5             12.9             69.4             25.6
1983                 5.7             15.2             60.3             22.2
1984                 5.5             16.8             54.6             20.2
1985                 4.6             13.4             43.6             16.1
1986                 4.1              8.0             34.6             12.8
1987                 3.3              9.8             29.8             10.7
1988                 2.8              8.7             24.9              9.2
1989                 2.4             10.5             21.0              7.8
1990                 2.5              8.4             22.2              8.2
1970-74              5.4             11.6             72.7             26.8
1975-79              5.8             12.5             72.0             26.6
1980-84              5.3             12.0             57.9             21.4
1985-89              3.4              9.0             30.2             11.2
Source:   Financial Reports, 1970-80
Monthly Digest of Statistics, Various Issues



-56-               ~~~~Annex l6k) lgeend&
-56-                               Page 2 of 5
JEREN       IN PUtUC  UICRETEYEDTRE PER PIRIMAY SvDN
Exnendi               Exendlture n           Exenditure as
Current  K hwacha                               Percent of
GNP per capita
1975                 39.2                  116.6                   12.7
1980                 52.4                   82.2                   10.5
1981                 58.7                   83.0                   10.2
1982                 79.5                  109.1                   14.7
1983                 81.5                   96.1                   12.9
1984                 80.5                   80.5                   11.3
1985                 88.6                   61.9                    9.4
1986                109.4                   41.7                    7.2
1987                135.7                   33.8                    5.6
1988                192.7                   30.6                    5.6
1989                279.1                   20.9                    4.1
1990                510.0                   19.6                    3.9
1991*             1,284.7                   27.5                    5.6
*meviaed budget



Annex Ifb) Epnhe
-57-                            Page 3 of 5
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
T -alPuft      Pubic ErL Public E.           Public Exp.     Pic ExW
Exped         Qon Eduatin    onEducation    on Edgatign     onEducatin
(in millions of current Kwacha)  (in millions of    as Percent of  as Pen
1984 Kwacha)  TotalPubL. Exp.     af 
1981           1,386.7         150.1         212.3             10.8         4.4
1982           1,595.8         214.8         294.6             13.5         6.6
1983           1,476.4         224.9         265.2             15.2         5.7
1984           1,484.6         249.2         249.2             16.8         5.5
1985           2,184.3         293.3         204.8             13.4         4.6
1986           5,382.9         433.1         165.1              8.0         4.1
1987           5,867.8         602.8         150.1             10.3         3.4
1988           8,359.4         723.5         114.9              8.7         2.8
1989          12,376.5       1,302.4          97.7             10.57        2.1
1990          31,381.6       2,646.2         102.2              8.4         2.6
1991*         50,131.3y      6,497.0         139.0             13.0         3.6
1992**        90,212.3      12,952.1                           14.4         -
1981-85                                     1,226.1            13.8         5.3
1987-91                                      590.0              9.8         2.9
revised budget
* budget



Annex 1(2) ffcre
-58-                           Page 4 ofs
1981 - 1991 (On constant 1985 Kwacha)
Primary     Secondary   Technical &     Teacher    University
YeaK         Edugaln    13duatlon   Voc. Educ.       Eductn   Education
1981          124           643         4,151          2,136      14,044
1982          158           820         5,033          3,506      19,783
1983          137           739         4,389          2,102      14,342
1984          114           543         3,757          2,112      12,946
1985           89           403         3,340          1,396      10,991
1986           64           345         3,256          1,656      8,697
1987           51           312         2,719          1,261      8,554
1988           50           249         2,883          1,261      3,518
1989           35           258         2,790          1,372      5,512
i990           35           215         2,676          1,858      4,223
1991*          23           103         2,475          973        3,101
1981-1990 Average   86          453         3450           1,717      10,261
1981 - 1991 (in constant 1985 US dollars)
Primary     Secondary   Technical &     Teacher     University
Year         Educaion    Educatio    Voc. Educ.      Education   Educatign
1981           46           237        1,532            788       5,182
1982           58           302        1,857           1,294      7,300
1983           S0          273         1,620            776       5,292
1984           42           200        1,387            779       4,777
1985           33           149        1,232            515       4,056
1986           24           127        1,202            611       3,209
1987           19           152        1,003            465       3,157
1988           18           92         1,064            465        1,298
1989           13           95         1,030            506       2,034
1990           13           79          988             686        1,558
1991*          9            38          913             359        1,144
1981-1990 Average   32          167        1,291           634        3786
* Estimated



Annex It)) ff=ndftulx
Page 5 of 5
EXPENDITURE PER STUDENT AT JUGEIER LEVELS
AS A RATIO OF PER PRIMARY SCHOOL PUPIL EXPENDITURE
Secondary    Technical &       Teacher         University
Education    Voc. Educ.        Education       Education
1981                5.2           33.6            17.3              113.6
1982                5.2           31.9            22.2              125.5
1983                S.4           32.1            15.4              104.9
1984                4.8           33.0            18.5              113.6
1985                4.5           37.4            15.7              123.2
1986                5.4           50.9            25.9              136.0
1987                6.1           53.0            24.6              166.7
1988                5.0           57.5            25.2               70.2
1989                7.3           78.7            38.7              155.6
1990                6.1           75.4            52.4              119.0
1991*               4.4           106.2           41.7              133.1
1981-1990 Average    5.3          40.8            20.0              119.7
* Estimated



Annex ftc) Teacher,
-60-                           Page 1 of 4
flMMEREF  UZI=
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Percentage
Trained        Untrained       Ttal         llnained
1980           17,365          3,807        21,172           18.0
1981           18,288          3,600        21,888           16.4
1982          10,734           3,697        23,431           15.8
1983          20,170          4,319         25,089           17.2
1984          23,281           4,270        27,551           15.5
1985          23,389           3,913        27,302           14.3
1986          26,627           2,254        28,181           7.8
1987          27,838           2,696        30,534           8.8
1988          29,306           3,042        32,348           9.4
1989          29,683           3,697        33,380           11.1
1990          29,950           5,241        35,191           14.9
SECONDARY SCHOOLS
ambian          MNot-Zambian            Total         Grand
Non-                Non-               Non-
Graduate Graduate   Graduate  Graduate Graduate  Graduate   tWal
1980    334     2,162     1,462      246      1,796    2,508     4,304
1981    428     2,649     1,339      234      1,767    2,883     4,650
1982    504     2,776     1,101      220      1,605    2,997     4,602
1983    658     3,063       884       167     1,542    3,230     4,772
1984    826     3,529       737      151      1,56Z    3,480     5,043
1985    869     3,732       741       162     1,610    3,894     5,504
1986    924     3,785       668       122     1,592    3,907     5,499
1987    948     4,242       569       97      1,517    4,335     5,852
1988    153     4,225       417       91      1,470    4,316     5,786
1989    989     3,486       580      121      1,569    3,607     5,176



-61-                      Annex lfc) Tears
Page 2 of4
D-EVELEPMENr OF THESAARY OE A PRIMAR1r TEACE
AMUal Sal=Z* in      Agmal Salar       S-la   as MUitipl
Cu=rn KWaCha       in 1284 KWaCha     Of IDer CaPita GNP
1981            3,288              4,651                   5.7
1985            4,992               3,486                  5.3
1987, March     5,232               1,302                  2.2
1987, May       6,390               1,590                  2.7
1987, Oct.      6,402               1,593                  2.7
1988           10,572               1,681                  3.1
1989, July     15,864               1,190                  2.2
1990, Jan.     18,864                728                   Lt;
1990, June     34,896               1,347                  2.9
1991, Jan.     39,312                841                   n.a
1991, Aug.     78,624               1,683                  n.a
Mhe data give the starting salary of a two-year trained primary
teacher with full secondary education.



-62-                       Annax lfc) TIac
Page 3 of 4
0I:D& SUPPLY OF ERIMAR TECHER
1992-2002
Trained Teachers Attrition Number of Output from Total No. No. of
in Post from      at     Ongoing  Training    of Trained Teachers
Year    Previous Year   3 Percent Teachers  Colleges    Teachers   Needed
1992      32,320          970   31,350      1850       33,200   31,939
1993      33,200          996   32,204      1850       34,054   32,851
1994      34,054         1022   33,032      1850       34,882   34,093
1995      34,882         1046   33,836      2150k      35,986   35,400
1996      35,986         1080   34,906      2450b      37,356   36,965
1997      37,356         1121   36,235      2800W      39,035   38,798
1998      39,035         1171   37,864      2800       40,664   40,639
1999      40,664         1220   39,444      3150d      42,594   43,217
2000      42,594         1278   41,316      3150       44,466   45,564
2001      44,466         1334   43,132      3500       46,632   47,875
2002      46,632         1399   45,233      3500       48,733   50,099
a: expanded output in 1995 from half the existing colleges
b: expanded output in 1996 from remaining colleges
c: output of 350 graduates from new college as from 1997
d: output of 350 graduates from second new college as from 1999
e: output of 350 graduates from third new college as from 2001



-63-
Page 4 of 4
PRIlMARlY SCHOL STAFFING X& GENDER 198
DISTRICT/                     ZAMUDAN                            NON ZAMDIAN
PROVINCE
ThA!IN           1       R    _RA_                      IBURD           TOTAL   % F
M    F   M    F   M   F    M                                   F
(>qppodbelt               2373     3649     478      350      _                                       6850     58.3
Kabwo                     1680     1333     353      231      6      16        _           8          3627     43.S
Luaka                     1239    2236       37       57    23       102        1         11         3706      64.9
Southemn                  2229     1752      118     143      4       5         2                     4253     44.6
LapUIA                    1638      S92     210      162      _       _        _           _          2602     28.9
Nodhmrn                   2284     1019      196     203      5       2         1          1          3711     33.0
Eastorn                   2190     1104      130     163      S       4        _           _         3596      3S.3
N. Waern                  1184      453     283      129      9       1        4           2         2065      28.3
Western                   1SS0      994      165     176      -       2         1                     2888     40.6
Zambia                   16367    13132    1970    1614    S2        132        9         22         33298     44.7
SOURCE: Compiled from MOE statistics



-64-                           Anne lfd) Boob
Page I of I
PLUPLaEXrB0 RATIOS
Primary Schools. Janua  192
Las           K            Ndola
Mathematics                    8             8            8
English                        5             5            5
Social Studies                20            13           26
Zambian Language              24            19           57
Scondar Schools. May 1987
English             3.2
Mathematics         1.0
Science             3.5
Geography           2.0
Source:   Primary Schools - Kaluba et al., 1992
Secondary Schools - Kelly, Education in a Declining Economy, 1991



Ame  2: Detid Poe   Cosl,
Page 1 of 8
ZAIEIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Smary 
KIUCRA                            USS                            X Total
...............................   ...--.---.-----------.------   X Foreign        Base
Local   Foreign      Total       Local foreign    lotal       Exchange     Costs
A. UANAGENENT DEVELOPNET
1. NEADtEACHER MTAINING          137418      66207    203625          705     340    1044             33          3
2. INSPECTORS' COWSE              65418      53100     118517         335     272      608            4S          2
3. INSTITUTIONL SVPPCRT           88425    676422    764847           453    3469    3922             88         11
4. TEACHERS' RECORDS              34560    116815    151375           171     599      776            77          2
5. INFOWkTION l NANM_ t            4031      1694       20975          21      87      108            81          0
6. MAJOR STDIES                  126750    190125    316875           650     975    1625             60          5
S-Tlotal                            456601    1119613   1576214         2342    5742    8083             71         22
B. REHRB & CONSTRUCtION            1388712    1290198   2678910         7122    6616   13738             48         38
C. IPROVENMTS IN OJALITY
1. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS       175204   1570817   1746020          898    8055    8954              90         25
2. EXANINATION INUS              109623    472567    582190           562    2423    2986             81          8
Sub-Total                           284827   2043384   2328210          1461    10479   11940            88         33
0. PROJECT NIUIGENENT               295425    132795    428220          1515     681     2196            31          6
Total BASELINE tCSTS               2425565   4585989   7011554         12439   2351a   35957             65        100
Physical Contirng fes            201096      7T793    6480           1031    2296    3328             69          9
Price ContingenCes              2942702   4792880   7735582          1409    2095    3505             60         10
Total PROJECTS COSTS               5569363   98266U    15396026        14879   2790    428               65        119
................................................ .............. =............................................................................ 
Vatuus Scaled "-I 1000.0-  9/15/1992 14016
I.



Anex 2: DledPdP    Cst
Page 2 f 8
ZANIUA
EDUCATION RENADILITATION PAOJECT
Project Caqoonents by Year
Base Costs                                   Totat
. ... ......................... .. ........ ................ ..... ......... . ..........
1993       1994       1995       1996       1997  KUMOLf     USS
A. NANAGENENT DEVELOPNENT
1. NEADlEACHER TRAINING            55779      36961      36961      36961      36961      203625       1044
2. INSPECTORS' COURSE              35291       20806      20806      20806      20806     118517        608
3. INSTIIUTIRAI. SUPPRT            253362    251755      133195      63268      63268    76847         3922
4. TEACHERS' RECORDS                42775      19080      67240      19330       2950    151375         776
S. INFORMATION NAJAGYENET             450      17859       1766        450        450      20975        108
6. AJOR STUDIES                      4875     297375       4875       4875       4875    316875        1625
Sth-totsl                            392532    643836      264844     145691     129311    1576214       8083
B. RENAl & CONSTRUCTION              176670     559260     699660    639210    604110   2678910         13738
C. IMPROVEMENTS IN QUALITY
1. INSTRUzCTIONAL HATERIALS       404196    979514       129402    189111      43797   1746020        8954
2. EXANINATION INPUTS              186?39     120784      91620     144386      38462    58219t        2986
.............. ..................................................................
Sut-total                            591135    1100298     221022     333497      82259    2328210      11940
0. PROJECT PMAAGEMENT                101985      98085      76050      76050      76050    428220        2196
... ........... ...... ... .... ......................................
Total BASELINE COSTS                1262321    2401479    1261576    1194448    891730    7011554      35957
Physical Contingencies            124225    240488      104444     107641      72092    648890       3328
Price Contingencies               450628   2262184    1662703    1863512    1496555    7735582        3505
~~~~. .................. ....................................... ....... .............. . ........... ....
Total PROJECT COSTS                 18371?4   4904151    3028723    3165600   2460377   15396026       42789
Taxes                                  0          0          0         0           0         0           0
Foreign Exceange                1371651    3724873    1741590    1822003    1166545   9826662       27910
Values Scaled by 1000.0 9/15I19A2 14:17



Awaex 2. Deaed Projed- CDf
Page 3 of 8
ZANBIA
EDUtCAtON RE0ABILITATION PROJECT
ProJects Cocponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                                       Totals Inctuding Contingencies
KXAC0A                                                                                  119
.... ........................................................... ......................................................................  ............................................................................_
1993         1994         1995          1996         197         Total             1993         1994          1995         1996         1997        Total
A. MAUOGEIENT DEVELOPNET
1. HEADTEACHER TRAINING                    79435         74601        89107        97707        102592      643441               313          218           227          235          244          1238
2. INSPECTORS, COURSE                      49826         41541        49618        54407         57127       252519               197          122          126           131          136          711
3. INSTITUTIONAL SUWPORT                  361058    ' 495761         317097       169196        177656      1520769             1425          1451          807          408           423         4513
4. TEACHERS' RECORDS                       61644         37601       162436        49703          8284       319667              243           110          413          120            20          906
5. INFORMATION KUUMENT                        639        35139         4280          1173         1232        42463                 3          103           11             3            3          122
6. MAJOR STUDIES                             71JS       580055        11890         13037        13689       625776               28          1697           30           31            33         1820
...................................................................                   ........................ ............. ......................................................................................................
Sut-Total                                     559707      1264698       634428        385223       360580      3204636              2209         3701         1614           928          859         9310
B. RE0AB 2 CONSTRUCTION                       251644      1115986      1667623       1670582      1657790      6363625               993         3266         4243          4024         3947        16473
C. INPROVENEOITS IN AtLITY
1. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS                615894      2090957        329945       528726       128572      3694093              2430         6119           839         1273          306        10968
2. EXAMINATION INPUTS                     265097       237572        215182       382005        104417      1204273             1046          695           547          920          249         3457
.. ............... .............................................. ..... ...... ......  ......... ............. ..................................................
Sth-Total                                     880990      2328529       545127        910730       232989    4898366               3476          6814         1387         2194           555        14426
D. PROJECT MANAGIMENT                         144832       194938        181544       199066       209019       929399               571          570          462           479          498         2561
.................................... ........................................................................................................  ...................................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                         1837174      4904151      3028723    3165600         2460377   15396026                7249        14351         7706         7624          5858        42789
......................................................................................................................... ........ .....................................................................................................  
Values Sealed by 1000.0 9115/1992 14s17
!.



An=  2: Detaied &-Oe   Coa
Page 4 of8
ZAJIA
EDUCATION REHWBILITATION PROJECT
KUACIA
Suwzry Accmts by Yea'
Base Costs                                       Foreign Exchange
............0................... .......................................................  ......................
1993       199.        1995        1996        1997       Total           X     Acot
I. INVESThENT COSTS
...................
A. CIVIL Ou1KS
1. CIVIL  OURKS - SC0QOLS          150150      465550      5830S0      446550      460200    2125500             46     983970
2. OTHER CIVIL MRKS                 43290        .  0           0           0           0      43290             60      25974
Sub-total                              193440     485550      583050      446550      460200    2168790             47    1009944
B. EW IPENT                            50944        8726       48945       97695         195      206505           100     206505
C. DESKS AND OTHER FURNITURE             1950       17750      64350      128700       83850      296600            50      1a83m0
D.  NATERIALS (NON-BOOK)                 9354       3353        3353        3413        3413       i2885            90       20597
E. BOOKS                              382083      966127      115040      181233       35919    1680403             92    1551814
F. TECUNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. INTERNATIONAL                   162630      180960      138840      11115kW      88920     6S250D             80     546000
2. LOCAL                            20551       20551       21601       20431       20431      103566             0           0
Sfrtotat                              183181      201511      160441      131581      109351      786066            69     546000                                             1
G.  VEHICLES                           153465     167700       42900           0           0      364065           100     364065
H.  STUDIES a SURVETS                   6100      300550        8050         250         250      315200            65     2048J0
t. TRAINING
1. EXTERNAL                         35880       68172       35802           0           0     139854            100     139854
2. LOCAL                             3116        2929        2732        2030        2030       12837            20       2567
Sub total                              38996       71101       38534        2030        2030      152691            93      142421
J. IORIKSOPSIPAIELS                   135584       34321       35764       30889       2es49      265107            3?      9686
................... ...................................... _..........    ......................................................... .......... _
Total INVESTUEiW  COSTS              1155097    2256690    1100427    1022341         723757    6258312             69    4291422
It. RECIMIT  COSTS
.._.................
K.  LOCAL SALARIES                     51181       51307       51286       50544       50310      254627             0           0
L. OPERATION I  AINTEUCE
1. VEHICLE OL                       30693       64233       72813       12813       72813     313365            80      250692
2. WHOLESNG 0LN                         0        3900       11700       23400       19500      58500             75      43875
Sirtotat                               30693       68133       84513       96213       92313      371865            79     29456?
N. OFFICE SIWIPOtT/JANIN                25350      25350       25350       25350       25350      126750             0           0
) ........  .................__............................ .............. .............................. 
Total RECIRRElT COStS                 10722       144790      161149      1217        16973       753242            39     294567
... i;   ........ .......... ....................................  . . _..... ._............
Total BSELINE COSTS                  1262321    240¶479    1261576    1194448         891730    7011554             65    4585989
Physicat Contingenfe               124225      240486      104444      107641       72092     648890             69      T7793
Price Contingencles                450628    2262184    1662703    1863512    1496555    7735582                 62    4792880
...................... ............................................, ... .... .... ...... ......... ........ 
Total PROJECT CSTS                    1837174    4904151    3028723    3165600    2460377   15396026                64    98266
TaxM"                                   0           0           0           0           0           0             0          0
foreign Exchnge                   1371651    372473    1741590    182203    1166545    9826662                  100    9826662
.................... ........................................  .......................................1
Vrlue Sc ted by 1000.0 9d151Am U14:1



Per 5 of 8
ZNUIA
DU4ATIOU RENSILITATION PROJECT'
Su_r,   Accousts by Year
Totalr Including ContIrigacIes                                                           Totals  IncludIng Contingencies
VIACUA                                                                                     uS,
............ ...................... D.................................                   ............................................................................. ............ ...........................  .
1993         1994          15            1996          1997        Total              13            1994          1995          1996      1  199          Total
1. INVESTENIT COSTS
....................
A. CIVIL WOS
1. CIVIL IDS    - SC0O0LS                  213670       96900        139686        1167063       1262874       5002393               844          2635          3536          2811         3007         13033
2. OTER  CIVIL  WORKS                       63095              0             0             0            0        63095               249              0             0            0             a           249
...................................................................                      ............................................................................................................................................
Sit-Total                                     276965        968900       1389686       116706        1262874       5065488              1093          2835          3536          2811         3007         13282
B. EWIPNENT                                     74457         17518        119372       261265            548       473460               294            52           304           629             1         1280
C. DESKS AND OTHER FURNITURE                     29          34n          153377        336359        230100        758236                 12          104           390           810           54          1864
D. PATERIALS (UM-BOOK)                          13634          6846          8177          9127          9583        47366                54            20            21            22            23           139
E. BOOKS                                       582173      2062131        293137        506652        105395      3549489               2297          6035           746          1220           251        10549
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. INTERNATIONAL                           226259       353788        324523        285158        239832       1429560               893          1035           826           687           571         4012
2. LOCAL                                    28753         40282         50559         52452        55074        227120               113           118           129           126           131          617
......................................... . ........................................................._ ..................................................... ..... ........ ........................................................
Sub-TotaL                                     255012        394070        375082        337610        29490D       1656681              1006          1153           954           813          702          4629
B. VEHICLES                                   214335        327401         99873              0             0       641609               846           b8            254             0             0         208 
R. STIDIES A SUERES                              9262       587239         20470            638          670       618279                 37          1718            52             2             2         1810  o
1. TRAINING
1. EXTERAL                                  49918       132871         83349              0             0       266138               197           369        .212               0             0          798
2. LOCAL                                     4335          5709          6360          5182          5441        27027                 17           17            16            12            13            75
...................................................................                      ............................................................................................................... .................... ..........................
Sib-Total                                       54253       138580         89709           5182         5441        293166               214           406           228            12            13          873
J. WICRKSNOPS/PANELS                           197614        70079         87225         82606         80166        517690               780           205           222           199           191         1597
Total INVESTEINT COSTS                       1680677       4608492       2636108       2706502       1989683    13621462                6632        13486          6707          6519          4737        38081
It. RECtRRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                               75042       105386        125828        135986        142128        584370               296           308           320          328           338          1591
S. OPERATION & NAINTEUNACE
1. VEHICLE OEN                              44701       131000        1M98          194519        204245        751864               176           383          451           469           486          1966
2. BUILDING ON                                   0         7782        27887         61156         53512        150337                  0           23            71           147           127          368
.................... .........................................................           ....................................................... ..... ........ ..... .......... .................................
Sth-Total                                       4701        138782        205285        255675        257757       902201                176           406          522           616           614          2334
C. OFFICE SUPPORTIADNIN                         36754        51490         61502         67438         70810       287993                145           151           156          162           169           783
| ~~~................................................................ ...                             ..................................................................................................... ......... ............................. ..................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                          156497       295659        392615        459099        47094       1774564                618           865          999          1106          1121          470
Total PROJECT COSTS                          1837174       4904151       3028723       3165600       2460377    15396026                749         1451           7706          7624          5858        42769
Values Scaled by 1000.0  9/15/1992   14sl7



Pee 6 of 8
EDIETION RIE8LITATIO  PROJECT
mry Acommt by Project Cqnent
nwam
INFOMATI
EADTE6ACU            INSTITUTI                 ON                 REIMA A   INSTRMCTI              PO
ER    INSPECTOR      alu   TEACHERS'  ANAGIEN   NAJOR    CONSTRUCT    ORAL   EXAMINATI PAIIOIEN
TRAINING  St COUS   SUPPORT   RECORDS         T       STWIES       IOa     MATERIALS ON INTS         T
1. INVESTNT COSTS
.................
A. CIVIL VORKS
1. CIVILI  RKS - SCNOLS                  0          0          0          0          0          0    2125500          0          0          0
2. OTHER CIVIL WMORKS                     0          0         0       29250         0          0          0          0      14040          0
Sd-total                                  0          0          0      29250          0          0   2125500           0      14040          0
B. EQUIPNIENT                              0         0        877      48750        877          0          0       3120     152880          0
C. DESIS AID OTHER FURNITLRE               0          0         0          0        200          0    294450        1950          0          0
D. MTERIALS  NONR-800K)                 1025        250       7915      3000        750          0          0          0       9945          0
E. WOKS                                   0           0          0          0      3607          0          0    1674845       1950          0
F. TECHNICAL SSISTACE
1. INTERNATIONAL                     53820      42120          0      35100      14040          0      93600          0    280020      163800
2. LOCAL                               8556       8775         0        630          0          0      24375          0       3510      57720
Subtotal                              62376      50895          0      35730       14040         0     iii           0    283530    221520
G. VENICLES                                0      S850    315900           0          0          0      23400       3315      1S600          0
H. STIIES & SmEYS                         0          0          0          0        1250    292500          0      21450          0          0
1. TRAINING
1. EXTERL                                0       1170      75114      19695          0          0          0          0      43875          0
2. LOCAL                              3227       7070          0        200          0          0          0          0       2340          0
...............................................................................................................
SIb-total                              322r       6240      75114      19895          0          0          0          0      46215          0
J. 1DRKSUOPS/PANEtS                   107915     30325      97500          0          0          0          0          0      20592       8m
Total INVESTIEIT COSTS                174543     95560    497307       136625     20725    292500   2561325    1704680    S44752    230295
It. RECUUT  COSTS
...................
A. LOCAL SALARIES                      29081      T73s           0      s5          250      14625       8m        38025      12088     139425
S. OPERATION &  AINUTENANCE
1. VEHICLE GIN                           0       5850    267540           0          0          0      21060       3315      15600          0
2. BUILDI1OUIN                           0          0          0          0          0          0      58500          0          0          0
Sib-total                                 0       5850    267540           0          0          0      79560       3315      15600          0
C. OFFICE SUPPCRTADNIN                     0      9750          0       9750          0       9750      29250          0       9750      58500
.............................................................. ............................................................................................*v^
Tqtul REOUIENT COSTS                   29081      22957    267540       147so        50      24375     117585      41340      37438     197925
Total BASELINE COSTS                  203625     118517    764847    151375       20975    316875    2678910   1746020    s52190        428220
Ph"ical Contirgencles                17082      8602       56934      12356       1333     17062    200918    261903        40952      31746
Price CcIng emles                   222734     125399    698989      155936     20155     291839   3483796    1686170    581131       469433
Total PIOJkCT COSTS                   443441    252519    152069    319667        42463    62s776    6363625    3694093    1204273    929399
Taxes                                   0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
F6reIpn Exe_             .          134840    106869    1340632    250217       34301    370565   3035495   3305334    978439    269970
Values Scled by 1000.0 9/15SM992 14s11



Ama k DAied
Pose 7qf8
ZFJIA
NWATIOu EIEAILITATION PROJECT
Smmrwy Account by Project Caqmanunt
Pbyaical            Price
Contingsnfes         Continencfes
, . . . . .. . . .            .... . . .
Total                 Amount            AmJ t
1. INVESTh' cuSTS
....................
A. CIVIL WS
1. CIVIL WORKS - SCHOOLS             2125500           7      159412      128    2717480
2. OTHER CIVIL WORKS                    43290         10        4329       36       15476
. . ..      .............. .. _......_. _........... ...................... ...._. .
Sub-totel                             2168790           6      163741      126    2732956
B. EQUIPUENT                            206505         10       20806      119      246148
C. DESKS AND OTHER FURNITURE            296600          8       22396       148     439239
D. MATERIALS (NON-BOOK)                  22885          10       2289       97       22193
E. BOOKS                               1680403          1S     251783       96    1617304
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. INTERNATIONAL                      682500           5       36465      104     710595
2. LOCAL                               103566          6        5788      114      117766
..................... ;;;;;; .................. .....................  ............. ............. ....... 
Sub-totel                               786066          5       42253      105      828362
0. VEHICLES                            364065           5       19120       71      2s5424
H. STWIES 4 SURVEYS                    315200           6       17905       90      285174
1. TRAINING
1. EXTERIAL                           139854           5       6993        85     119292
2. LOCAL                                12837          5         642      106       13549
.......................... ..........................................._........ ........................ .
Sb-total                                152691          5        7635       8T      132840
J. WORKSHOPS/PANELS                    265107          10       26511       85      226072
.........................................................
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                     12           9     574438       108    678871
II. REC0RENIT COSTS
...................
A. LOCAL SALARIES                       254627         11       M45        119      302599
B. OPERATION A AINITENANCE
1. VEHICLE OIN                        313365          10      30976       130     407523
2. WUINDIIG 08                         58500           7        4387      149      87449
............... ..........................................
Sub-totat                              371865          10      35363       133     494972
C. OFFICE SUPPORT/ADIIIN               126750           9       11944      118      149299
.........................................................
Total RECURENT COSTS                   753242          10       74452      126     946870
Total BASELINE COSTS                  7011554           9     648890       110    7735582
Phtysfcal Contingencies              648890
Prfe  Contingmncfes                 m3552             8     639411
.                                 ~~~~~~~~~~.........................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                  15396026           8    1288300        50    7735582
Taxse                                      0          0           0
ForeI  Exchnge                      9826662           9     864487
.. ....       ..................... ...... .......................................1.............
V lues 1t4ed bV lO0D.0 9/15/199 14:16



ZMIA
WWATIOI tEIUBILITATION PROJECT
Stmry AcotS Cast Suamry
MC#A                               UM                             I Total
...... z;;  ......................   ..........................-    I  Foreign        as
*     Local   foreign       Total        Local  Forein    Total       Ehdug         Costs
t. INESTIIET COSTS
...................
A. CIVIL VOS
1. CIVIL w1B - SCNOOLS          1141530     963970    2125500         5854     5046    10900            46         30
2. OTIERCIVILIVOS                 17316      25974       43290          89      133      222            60           1
Sub-Total                          115K846    1009944    216870          5943     5179    11122            47          31
0. EWIPNIET                              0      206505     206505           0     1059     1059            100          3
C. DESKS AM OTHER FUMITURE          148300      148300     296600         761      761     1521            50           4
D. MATERIALS (M-H11OOK)               2289       20597      22885          12      106      117             90          0
E. 9ROKS                            128589    1551814    1680403          659     7958     8617             92         24
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. INTERHATICIAL                 136500     546000    682S00           700     2800     3500            80          10
2. LOCAL                         103566           0     103566         531        0      531             0           1
Sub-Total                           240066    546000       786066        1231    Z2O8    4031              69          11
VEHICLES                              0      364065     364065           0     1867     1867            100          5
e.. STUDIES & SURVEYS               110320      204880     315200         566     1051     1616            65           4
I. TRAINING
1. EfXTERNAL                          0     139854      139854           0      717      717           100           2
2. LOCAL                          10270        2567      12837          53       13       66            20           0
. ...................................... _i  .......... ..... ---------------.. ........ ...............__._... ..---_....--------_-..---_-_
Sub-Total                             10270     142421     152691          53      730      783            93           2
J. VORKSNOPS/PANELS                 168211      96896      265107         863      497     1360            37           4
Total INVESTNENT COSTS             1966890    4291422 -  6258012        1008?   22007   32094              69          89
.. .._..... ............. _.. ........................ ................................. T.........   ......................
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. LOCAL SALARIES                   254627           0     254621        1306        0     1306              0          4
B. OPERATION A NAINTENANCE                                                                                           a
1. VENICLE atM                    62673     250692      313365         321     1286     1607            80           4
2. 0WILDING elN                   14625      43875       58500          75      225      300            75           1
Sub-Total                            m798       294567    37186S          396     1511     1907            79           5
C. OFFICE SUVPURT/ADNIN             126750           e     126750         650        0      650             0           2
Total REOJRRENT COSTS               458675      294567     753242        2352     1511     3863            39          11
....... .............. _;;; _. .......... ......... ;.....    ................... ............................... ..... ------------.  ----------------------
Total BASELINE COSTS               2425565    4585989    7011554        12439    23518   35957             65         100
Physueat Conting"ncfes           201096      47793      648890        1031     2296     3328            69           9
Price ContingencIes              942702    4792880    M5562           1409     2095     3505            60          10
~~~~~~~~.. ................................ ...........................   ......................................... ...........
Total PRWECTS COSTS                5569363    9826662   15396026        14879    27910    42789            65         119
.a..sScae....     00...........................................................................:.....1.7.......
V lun Sctedby 1000.0 -   9/15/1992  14:1Y



-73-
Annex 3: Forecasts of Eoendiftre and Disburseme
Page I of I
Estlma G Mment Exoenditure Proaram. 1992-1994
(K Million in Constant 1984 Prices)
EXPENDITURE              1984             1991           1992   1993           1994
PROGRAM            Actual    %        Pro. Est.  %       Budget   Eat       Est.     %
(K mill.)          (K mill.)
Core Sectors
Agriculture       117.3    7.9        76.8   7.1        63.7   85.4       108.6   13.0
Health            112.9    7.6        77.8    7.2       90.7   102.5      110.0   13.2
Education         249.5    16.8       131.2   12.2      141.5  136.6      142.0   17.0
Transport/
Communications     83.2    5.6        49.1    4.6       55.1   42.7       43.8    5.3
Energy             16.3    1.1        5.3    0.5         3.2    6.0       5.8      0.7
Sub-Total           579.2   39.0       340.2   31.6      354.3  373.2      410.2   49.1
Other Sectors       905.9   61.0        736.8  69.4      615.7  480.8      42.       0.9
TOTAL              1,485.0  100.0      1,077   100.0     970.0  854.0      835.0   100.0
Source: Zambia Public Expenditure Review, Staff and MOE Estimates, 1992.
Disbursement Schedule
US$ million
Amount Disbursed         1.9    3.8    9.0    9.3    6.7    1.3
Cumulative Amount        1.9    5.7   14.7   24.0   30.7   32.0
Percentage of Total     6      18     46      75     96    100



An=r 4: Imolemenfafin Schedule
Page I of I
199             1994            199             1996           1997            199
I1 2 34: 1 234:12 3 4  12 34:1 23 4:12 34:
PUOJECT                                             :
loord Presentat ion                                 I
Credt tlffctlvns                                  K                                  
Project Cmlptlton                                   2                                
Credit Closing                                      :                                                                           
INPWUUuT   to SILITY               a                                                                        
Lewning Ustteaa                 aa                              aa                      
Reprint Existing fttwr IsI       miUnUa*a:aa
Reprifnt NMaaa.auu--                                                                                         
Print Health fteluu         a                    r- a-                        
Print ZW                           nn min.aa m mu                         m                                   
Print Reg*sdvcrpts                                           I  nnur-                                        
Purchae Omn                 a                     n      -                    
NeW Umawript bvt--   ---
print NeW                                           .na 
Purchase, TIC Scoks                          I uuaa                           
Teaching NaterIstea*.auuauiu.                                                 
vehicle                     a    -*                                                           
TA: Caosting
TAt   Exam Inwtion          a                   ---     -----------
TA: iNmkIng 'Waft 7 IL12: I-------
-TAs Coqnufting Loealstmum                    =.~ru a.am.n 
TrafnIing                                        ----in. -in------2                                  
IIPUWIUB ACU                                        :: 
Oam Cusutrustlon Phase I       a          uunnnuu.a.uu                                             
rSm C..trsmtlmn Mlme II         a                              u       --                                      : 
gum Coeutnaatimn Phas  III    aa*                                        unn.n.ui.iu-
Raw Coutnsmtim  Phums IV                        :22a
furndiurlI    hottation                                                 --------
Extaulosi                                                 ---m   --------uusauauua.s 
Fumniture:  Est.wla'm          a                                                   ---    ---
TA                                                         ---                    uamn
Nalntuunee--------
PLANNING AI WAUAGEhT 
N5eadteechar Tra inrer  Trg                  =suu
NT CaurBes                                        Zs  anm    uZs                      mu    *2  Eu
TA                                                           *                   m
inspetorsf Caurses
Progran Prep.                          n
tIsp Courses                             2               2:u:3 :
Inst itut lrata Supaport           3U22U2U232322u233 uE532uZu3222
Vehictes*                                 2323
Hanegemr t of Inforust Ion         U223222Z32332333353U3UUmu2Wm23mmu2U



-75              Arnex S: Suoent4on Schedule
Page I of 3
SUPERVSION S
1.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Every six months progress reports on ths implementation of the
project would be prepared by ZEPIU. Such reports would be
discussed with IDA during the annual implementation review.
(b)    By January 1993 and every year thereafter the MOE would obtain a
guarantee from the Ministrn *f Finance that there has been an increase
in real terms in the budget for primary education.
(c)    ZEPIU would also prepare quarterly reports to the Project Steering
Commir.ee 'hat would be sent to IDA for information.
2.    IDA Supervision Inputs.
Approximate               Expected                       Activity            Staff inputs
Dates           Skill Requirements                                     (staff-
(monthNear)                                                                   weeks)
11/92           Educator,                      Project Launch Workshop        10
Economist,
Exams specialist,
Education Materials Specialist,
Engineer/architect,
Training/management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist
Co-financiers
02/93            Educator (Task Manager)       Supervision                    2
06/93            Educator (Task Manager),      Annual Implementation Review    16
Economist,
Engineer/Architect},
Watwr and Sanitation Specialist
Co-financiers
12/93           Educator (Task Manager)        Supervision                    2



-76-                Annex 5: S:S,peaion Sdaedide
Page 2 of 3
04/94           Educator (Task Manager),       Annual Implementation Review    16
Economist,
Exams specialist,
Education Materials Specialist,
Training/management Specialist,
Financial Analyst or
Accounting/Auditing Specialist,
Engineer/Architecht
Co-financiers
09/94           Educator (Task Manager)        Supervision                   2
12/94           Educator (Task Manager)       Supervision                    2
01/95           Educator (Task Manager),       Mid-Project Review            16
Economist.
Exams specialist,
Education Materials Specialis.,
Training/management Speeialist,
Financial Analyst or
Procurement Specialist,
Engineer/Architecht
Co-financiers
09/95           Educator (TasK Manager)        Supervision                   2
04/94           Educator (Task Manager),       Annual Implementation Review    16
Economist,
Exams specialist,
Education Materials Specialist,
Engineer/architect,
Training/management Specialist
Co-financiers
09/94           Educator (Task Manager)        Supervision                   2
12/94           Educator (Task Manager)       Supervision                    2
04/95           Educator (Task Manager),       Annual Implementation Review    12
Economist,
Exams specialist,
Education Materials Specialist,
Engineer/architect,
Training/management Specialist,
Financial Analyst
09/95           Educator (Task Manager)        Supervision                   2



-77-                Annex 5: Seun Schedle
Page 3 of 3
12/95           Educator (Task Manager)        Supervision                    2
04/96            Educator (Task Manager),      Annual Implementation Review    12
Economist,
Exams specialist,
Education Materials Specialist,
Training/management Specialist,
Financial Analyst or
Procurement Specialist,
Engineer/Architecht
Co-financier-,
09/96            Educator (Task Manager)       Supervision                    2
12/96           Educator (Task Manager)        Supervision                    2
04/97            Educator (Task Manager),      Annual Implementation Review    10
Economist,
Training/management Specialist,
Financial Analyst,
Engineer/Architecht
Co-financiers
09/97            Educator (Task Manager),      Project Completion Report      10
Financial Analyst,            Preparation
Economist
Co-financiers
05/98            Educator (Task Manager)       Discussion of PPAR findings    2



Ane 6: Pedb-w-criffe   dAor
Page 1 of 3
Perfonarwe h1ficamos
Output Indicator                                                   Effect Indicator
a                        oL-iminzMletri                            a                       Learnint Material
6 mllion new text book                                             Textbook/pupil ratio in primary aducation:
- 1/2 in Mathematics and English
665,000 teachers' guides                                                   - 1/3 in other subjects
3500 teaching kits
528,50 reference books                                             Reduced dropout rates, especialiv of girls
Gender specificity tests of books                                  Increased literacy/nuneracy ras
b.                         Examination                             Greater gender sensitivity in leamning materials
Universal competency testing at grade f.our                        b.                         Exi
National examinations tesbtig higher order cognitive skills        Increased value of primary school education as perceived by the labor
market
10 examination officems trained
Increased teachers' awareness of learing problems
Loalization of grade 12 examination
Greater cumTculum relevance of teaching
Examiation fedback system
Technical assistance



Annex 6: Perfomae I ors
Page 2 of 3
Pefornranme Indicators
2.                                                 A jm nd Phvsieal Facilits
Oput Idicator                                                    Effect Endicator
1000 new cl m   8om in Luaka, Ndola, Kitwe                       Increased parifcipation ratio in the Lusaka, Ndola, Kitwe area
-700 in 20 new school
-300 trough exwiWn-ic and  hbiiaion of old schools        Inceased participation of poor sudents
lcemgnb in water md sanittiom fcilities                      Icased participafion of female students
School Maite  Fund (10% of invested funds), maneged by PTAs      Reduced school closure due to envimMental rlated ilness
Reduction of triple/quadnrple shbifs
A maximum of 50 studnts/classroom/shift in project schools
Increased involvement of parents, reduced vandalism;



Amna 6: Perforcw Inators
Page 3 f 3
3.                            e        ot
Outpu Indicator                                                  Effect Indicator
Thining                              a.                          Training
Training of 4000 head-eachers (with prionty to women)            Improved administative and professional competence of head teachers
Traning of 100 inspectors/100 education officers (with priority to  Increased management posts for women
women)
Management and Adm. courses for ECZ.                             Icreased frequency of school inspection
Logistical support                                               Increased geographical coverage of inspection
Computer for ECZ
Three vehicles for ECZ
26 miniuses for TTC
11 vehicles for the School Inspetorate
h                   Management Information
b,.                  Magagement Information
Articulated plans and targets in education policy
Ficing system of key education data
Improved data coliection: method, substance and quality
Teachlrs' record system
Increased capacity for analysis
Documentation Center
10 Policy studies_
4.                                                      Pkibic Ruree
Output Indicator                                                  Effed Indicator
|Ieased public spending an education, of 15 % of the total budget by  Greater sustainability of the education systm.
1995



Anna
-81-                                                         Page ) of 6
TITLES TO BE PRODUCED 1993-1997
TITLE                     GRADE    PorT       TnLES      1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    COPIESI       TOTAL        TOTAL
TnTLE       TEXT   jTACHEWS
BOOK        GuWE
ENGLIS                   151               1                                                        120000     120000
ENGLIS"                      6        T      3500KB       X                                          16000460
ENGLIS                       6        P                   X                                         120000     120000
ENGSuH                       a        T      3 BOOKS      X                                          16000                    45000
ENGLISH                      6        P                   X                                         120000     120000
ENausH   7   P                   X                                         t 2~~~~~~~~~~~~10000  120000
ENGLISH                      7        T      3BOOKS       X                                          15000                    4OO
MATHEMATICS                  5        P                   X                                         120000     120000
MATHEMATICS                  S        T                   X                                          16000                    10SO
SOCIAL STUDES                S        P                   X                                         120000     120000
SOCIAL STUDIES               5        T      3 BdY.S      X                                          16000                    4SO00
SOCIAL STUDIES               6        P                   X                                         120000     120000
SOCIAL STUOIES               6        T      3 BOOKS      x                                          16000                    45
UNSPECIED NEW SERIES                  P      4 BOOKS                               X       X        490000     480000
UNSPECFED NEW SERIES                  P      * BOOKS                               X       X         60000                     0000
TOTAL                                           30        22 10            0       4       4       1350000    120000         300000
ALREADY DEVELOPED NEW MANUSCRIPTS
SOCIAL STUDIES               3        P                   X                                         120000     120000
SOCIAL STUDIES               3        T                   X                                          16000                    16000
SOCtAL STUDIES               4        P                   X                                         120000    1120000
SOCIAL STUDIES               4        T                   X                                          16000                    10 IS
TOTAL                                           4         4        0       0       0       0        270000     240000         30000
MANUSCRIPTS UNDER DEVELOPMErIT OR TO BE DEVELOPED
MATHEMATICS                  3        P                   X                                         120000     120000
MATHEMATICS                  3        T                   X                                          16000                    16000
MAThEMATICS                  4        P                   X                                         120000     120000
MATHEMATICS                  4        T                   X                                     |    1600                     16400|
MATHEMATICS                  5        P                                    x                        120000     120000
MATHEMATICS                  S        T                                    X                         16000                    16000
MATHEMATICS                  6        P                                            x                120000      120000
MATHEMATICS                  6        T                                            X                 15000                    15000
MATHEMATICS                  7        P   |                                                         120000     120000
MATHEMATICS                  7        T                                                    X         16000                    16000
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE        S        P                   X                                         120000      120000
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE  |              T                   X                                          15000                     15000
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE        6        P                   X                                         120000      120000
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE        6        T                   X                                          150                       16000
SOCIAL STUDES                5        P                            X                                120O0       120000
SOCIAL STUDIES               6        T                            X                                 16W00                     16000
SOCIAL STUDIES               a        P                                    X                        1|20f00    1 20000
SOCIAL STUDIES          |             T                                    x                         :FOOO                     I5000
SOCIAL STUDIES               7        P                                            x                120000      120000
SOCIAL STUDIES               7        T                                            x                 166000 jSOO
TOTAL                                           20        a        2       4       4       2       1350000    1200000         160000
GRAND TOTAL                                     64        34       2       4       a8              2970000    264T0000       4000



-82-                                                 AnnL 
Page 2 of 6
TITLE                               PotT     TITLES    1993      I$"4   |low    196o   1007    COPIESI    TOTAL            TOTAL
l                       l                  ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~TMT  TEXT  TIICHEIVS
|I.  l                BOOK        GUIDE
(d) Reprints of (b) & (c)
UNSPECIFIED NEW SERIES                P     400KS                                    X       X      600000      0
UNSPECIIED NEW SERIES              4T                J OKS                           xJx                                     60
TOTAL                                       a BOOKS                         _        4       4         -0000   -00000
(e) On Behalf of ZEMP
ENGLISH                     3         P     3 8KG        X                                          380000      380000
ENGLIH                      3        T       28BOKS      K                                           30000                   30000
ENGLISH                     4        T      2 BOOKS                X                                 300000                  3000
ENGLISH                     4        T      2 BOOKS                X sOo 
ENGLISH                     a         pT     2000KS                          X                       30000                   30000
TOTAL                                                              tS        6       5       6     1170000    1080000        00O0
BOOKS
*The"s or other ptinn., as to be dOmed wIlh
ZEMP, but hI nuwnb   ,lndt to the..
(f) Health Science Component
HEALTH SCIENCE              S        T       I BOOK  |                                               1X000                   16000
HEALTH SCIENCE          |             P      t BOOK  |                                              125000      126000
HEALTH SCIENCE          |            T       I t00K                X                                 15=                     16O000
HEALTH SCIENCE              7         P      I BOOK |                                               125000      126000
HEALTH SCIENCE              7        T       I BOOK                          X                       1500SM0
TOTAL                                     I S    KGO=    I         2        2                       20000       2600         46000
(g) Syllabus Production
SYLLAUS IVa       |o  1.7            T                                                                      T10    |   X  |0000
sub*                    I _
TOTAL                                          10        6         5                                150000
BOOKS
GRANDTOTALla+[b+c+ d+e+f +1
8 1   04    45     14         a181         01 a     4r00j  130200            815000



-83-                                      Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF BOOKS
SUBJECT           0MM~OW     &%MO   0PMf   -rO    Oman  GP"   aMM             COUWeT
. _           a      C 4     6      a .
ENGLISH                                                                   Subject to views of ZEMP
- TEXT BOOK              AP     AP     WB    We    We
- TEACHERS GUIDE         RP     A      We    We    w                W
wei    we    we
- TEXT BOOK (Old)                                     WO     We
- TEACHERS GUIDE (Old)
ZAMBIAN LANGUAGES
- TEXT BOOK
- TEACHERS GUIDE
2eU     w     ZUWP   mC    ZE W     ZMu
- TEXT BOOK (Old)              ZMP u
- TEACHERS GUIDE (Old)  ZEMP
MATHEMATIC8
- TEXT BOOK              oR    RP      we      W    O        we          WOPAE 3. 4 ND 6 WrED Of P
- TEACHERS GUIDE         RP     AP     we    we       ws    we    we
- TEXT BOOK (Old)                                     we      p      p
- TEACHERS GUIDE (Old j
EMRONMENTAL SCIENCE
-TEXT BOOK3              EC     EC    IC    EC  Wd           we  RP   GPAOE ANDVUFTED OF eW
- TEACHERS GUIDE         IC    EC      EC      EC     WB     we    _w
SOCIAL STUDIES
* TEXT BOOK                            we    we WO    WB     W      we
- TEACHERS GUIDE         .we .we                      we     Ws    we
- TEXT BOOK                              P            we     we      p
p        wve    we    sOA
- TEACHERS GUIDE                                                                             .
HOME ECONOMI
- TEXT BOOK                                                  Ws    WI
* TEACHERS GUIDE                                      WB    WB    WI   (for Health Science)
INDUSTRIAL ARTS
. TEXT BOOK
* TEACHERS GUIDE         .       .
RELIGION
. TEXT BOOK
. TEACHERS GUIDE
music
- TEXT BOOK
- TEACHERS GUIDE
PHYSICAi. EDUCATION
* TEACHERS GUIDE
   



-84-                               Annex7
Page 4 of 6
CHARTS TO BE SPECIFIED BY MOE
examples
CHARTS FOR HOME ECONOMICS AND OR ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE
SIMPLE HYGIENE E.G. CLEANING TEETH, PROTECTING FOOD FROM FLIES ETC.
FOOD GROUPS (CARBOHYDRATES, PROTEINS ETC.)
DRINKING WATER (SOURCES/USE OF)
DISEASES AND THEIR CONTROL
TREATMENT FOR DEHYDRATION/DIARRHEA
HEALTH CHARTS AND BOOKS                    UNICEF
EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE BODY
INTERNAL ORGANS OF THE BODY (DIGESTION AND RESPIRATION)
SKELETON
SENSE ORGANS - EYE AND EAR
CLASSIFICATION OF ANIMALS
EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL FEATURES OF A FISH
LIFE CYCLE OF MOSQUITO AND MALARIA CONTROL
LIFE CYCLE OF A FROG OR TOAD
LIFE CYCLE OF A COCKROACH
LIFE CYCLE OF A MOTH OR A BUTTERFLY
A FOOD CHAIN
EXTERNAL FEATURES OF A PLANT
GERMINATION OF SEEDS
TYPES OF SEED DISPERSAL
FLOWERING PLANT REPRODUCTION
SOIL EROSION
CARBON CYCLE
NITROGEN CYCLE
WATER CYCLE
SOLAR SYSTEM
PHASES OF THE MOON
FORMATION OF LUNAR AND SOLAR ECLIPSES
SIMPLE ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS (BATTERIES, WIRES, SWITCHES AND BULBS)
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM OF A TOWN
ROAD SIGNS
CHARTS FOR MATHEMATICS
NUMBERS
FRACTIONS
MEASUREMENTS
MULTIPLICATION TABLES
CLOCK FACES
TIME
CHARTS FOR LANGUAGES
ALPHABET
COLOURS
LANGUAGE MAP



-85-                                                   Annex7
Page 5 of 6
EDUCATION MATERIALS
If       I          I             ~~~~~~~~TOTAL
ACnVM                                              UNIT    QUANTI    UNT           TOTAL        COST
COST       C03YS.
BOOKS
EMERGENCY REPRINTG
REPRINTING OF TEXT BOOKS - OLD SERIES             COPIES      600000         135    81000000    810000
REPRINTING OF TEACHERS GUIES - OLD SERES          COPIES      240000         140    33800000     338000
PRINtINO OF ALREADY DEVELOPED MANUSCRW
PRINTING OF TEXT SOOKS NEW SERES                  COPIES      240000         135    32400000    324000
PRINTING OF TEACHERS GUIDES - NEW SERES           COPIES       30000         117     3510000      35100
PRINTINO OF MANUSCRIPTS TO BE DEVELOPED
PRNTING OF TEXT BOOKS - NEW SERIES                COPIES     1250000         135   168750000   1687500
PRINTING OF TEACHERS GUIDES - NEW SERIES          COPES       200000         117    23400000    234000
REPRINTNO
REPRINTING OF TEXT BOOKS - NEW SERIES             COPIES      500000         135    67500000    675000
REPRINTNG OF TEACHERS GUIDES- NEW SERIES          COPIES       60000         117      7020000     70200
PRTING OF ITEMS FROM RUMP SCHEDULE
TEXTBOOKS                                         COPIES     100000         0.75                 810000
TEACHERS' GUIDE                                   COPES        90000         2.3                 207000
PRINTINO OP HEALTH SCIENCE MIATERIALS
TEXTBOOKS                                         COPIES      260000        1.00                 250000
TEACHERS' OUtDE                                   COPIES       45000        0.60                  22600
PURCHASE OF SUPPLEMENTARY READERS. PEDAGOGICAL   COPIES        10000       2000    20000000    200000
METHODOLOGY AND REFERENCE WOKS FOR TTCS
OTHER MATERIALS
WALL MAPS                                          SET          3500       6130    17965000    179560
GLOBES                                             PCS          3600        2700      9450000     94500
CHARTS                                            SET           3500       4000      14000000    140000
RULERS FOR CHALK BOARDS                            PCS          4000         450      1@00000      18000
SET SQUARES FOR CHALK BOARDS                       PCS         16000         600     9600000      96000
PROTRACTORS FOR CHALK BOARDS                      PCS           8000         600     4800000      48000
COMPASSES FOR CHALK BOARDS                        PCS           8000        1000      8000000     80000
DISTRIBUTION
DISTRIBUTION THROUGH PRESENT SYSTEM                                                  75000000    750000



-86-                                                Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
EDUCATION MATERIALS
KWACHA            Use
-.      TTOTAL
ACTIVITY                                               UNIT       QUANT       UNIT       TOTAL         C08T
COST       COST             -
STUDIES, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ETC.
STUDY
PUBLISHING POLICY                                     WEEKS              26                 5500000 
PUBLISHING INDUSTRY                                   WEEKS              2                  55000W        5500
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
- LOCAL STAFF (CLERICAL OFFICER: SECRETARY)          MAN YEAR             6                 3000000       30000
VEHICLES
- PICK-UP 4WD DC WITH HARD TOP                         UNIT               1    1700000      1700000       17000
OFFICE FURNITURE                                                                                          IO.10
EQUIPMENT
- COMPUTER EQUIPMENT                                    SET                    1300000      1300000       13000
- OFFICE                                                LOT        .            100000       300000        3000
TOTAL                                                                                     552009000  7250350



Annex 8: Pol Studies
-87-                           Page I of 12
POLICY STUDIES
1.    FINANCING OF EDUCATION
BathoA
The over-arching problem in education in Zambia is the immense gap between minimum needs for
providing broad-based access to quality education and the resources available to meet these needs.
The underlying cause of the gap is the heavy dependence of the education system on the State as the
main source of education finance during a period of prolonged economic decline, coupled with
expenditure policies that diverted resources avay from the social sectors. Three main problems have
emerged, namely, (a) the decline in education expenditures has been so massive that the system can
no longer be sustained at its present level of funding. In 1990, public spending on education as a
proportion of the GDP was 2.5 percent, one of the lowest in the world; (b) the functional distribution
of the education budget is weighted too much in favor of salaries and student welfare, crowding out
quality-enhancing inputs at all levels; and (c) primary education has absorbed the main decline in
expenditures.
The inability of Government to provide sustainable financing for education has led to increasing
demands on communities and beneficiaries to pay for education services. As part of the restructuring
of the economy, the role of Government in providing these services will be increasingly reduced as
that of the beneficiaries is increased. More comprehensive information is needed on how much
education is actually costing, how it is financed and what the money is spent on. Strategies need to
be developed for increasing community and private sector participation while protecting those who are
unable to pay. The findings would help in making improvements in resource mobilization and
allocation and in improving service delivery to achieve gains in access, equity and efficiency.
Sd Aeas
a.    Household level survey: to determine actual levels of educational expenditures by
household, by child with reference to gender, and by purpose (uniforms, books, etc.)
as a way of measuring parents' willingness and ability to pay for education. The
study will build on data currently being generated from the Priorities Survey and the
Beneficiaries' Assessment under the IDA Social Recovery Project. Limits and scope
for cost recovery would be examined under this category.
b.    Financing at the Institutional level: to determine how much schools of different
types, sizes and locations actually cost, and how they are financed; and to review
differences in the way resources are utilized and allocated within institutions in the
educadon system. The survey will generate data on unit costs and on strategies for
increasing efficiency in the utilization of resources.
c.    Management of resources: to examine patterns of school ownership and
management, and identify constraints to greater participation of the non-government
sector and strategies for increasing it.



Page 2 of 12
d.    Patterns of resource allocation: to review current budget practices at national,
provincial and district levels, especially budget formulation procedures, expenditure
patterns (including inter- and intra-sectoral resource allocation at the central and local
levels), and mechanisms for monitoring the allocation; and to make recommendations
for strengthening the budget process.
e.    Resource Mobilization: to explore new sources of augmenting resources available to
education, including greater cost recovery and increased participation by the private
sector.
f.    Policy Impact: to analyze the impact of proposed strategies and existing practices on
various sub-groups, especially the impact on both rural and urban resource-poor
communities, and on gender.
h.    Synthesis and reconunendations: to synthesize findings from the various studies,
bring in international dimensions and comparators, build broad consensus on the
findings and recommendations through seminars and workshops, and publish the
findings for wider dissemination.
2.  THE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Rationale
The effective delivery of public educational services depends to a large degree on the
suitability of the management structures for the education sector, the efficiency of the procedures
employed, and the competence of the managerial staff. The MOE faces many basic weaknesses in its
management and planning capability which adversely affect its present efforts to act as the central
instigator and coordinator of change and renewal in education. Management problems revolve around
the great financial constraints that the system is working under which limits the scope of the
administrative and logistical structures to cope with a fast growing sector; the evolving nature of
Government delivery mechanisms towards greater decentralization; the increased participation of
communities and the private sector in education delivery and a weak capacity for planning and policy
formulation.
Study Areas
a.    existing patterns of school management and ownership of education
institutions highlighting recent trends. This study will review the role
of churches, local authorities and the private sector in education
provision and indicate strategies for increasing their participation.
b.    decentralization of education management and its implications on
financial autonomy at the regional and local level. This will include a
review of the accounting system at the provincial level (PACO) and
strategies for strengthening it in the context of greater decentralization;



-89-                      _Anex 8: Pe      w
Page 3 of 12
control of revenue collected at the local level and incentives for
revenue generation at that level;
c.    administrative relationship between the center and the periphery and
how this can be improved in order to strengthen the partnership.
Areas to be studied include a review of the Education act; the role of
PTAs in key decisions affecting schools e.g. appointment of head
teachers; deployment of teachers and the role of the school versus the
MOE; the role of the various education personnel - PEOs, DEOs,
head teachers;
d.    the organizational structure, staffing and decision making
responsibilities of professional units in MOE (inspectorate, planning
unit, CDC,Examinations Council, Teachers' Service Coinmission) and
make recommendations on how they could be better harmonized and
strengthened;
e.    strategies for improving performance, efficiency and morale. This will
include a review of recruitment and deployment procedures,
promotion and recommendations for training and upgrading schemes
for various education cadre;
f.    budgeting and expenditure control and strategies for strengthening it;
g.    identify botdenecks and constraints to effective management of
education and in service delivery and make recommendations for
removing them.
h.    assess the level of gender-sensitivity within management levels of education including
in recruitment and promotion into higher levels.
3. STRATEGIES FOR INCREASING ACCESS TO SECONDARY EDUCATION
Rationale
The education sub-sectors are so interrelated that success in expanding access to primary education
(Grades 1-7) and improving its quality will create its own pressures for increasing access to the next
level, whether in basic or conventional schools. A revitalized Zambian economy will also require a
larger number of better qualified graduates from secondary schools. The success of the Bank's
proposed educational and economic interventions in Zambia, therefore, will almost inevitably lead to
the expansion of secondary education. Account must also be taken of GRZ's goal of nine years
universal basic education. To ensure the orderly development and expansion of facilities for
secondary educatirn, strategies for increasing access, within available resources, need to be carefully
elaborated and evaluated, taking account of the various modalities for the provision of secondary
education. The effects on girls of both limited entry into secondary schools and of the expansion of
basic schools would be examined.



-90-                     Annex 8: PoLSUdes
Page 4 of 12
Sutud Area
a.    With reference to existing primary, basic school and Junior secondary facilities, the
study will prepare an action plan for the achievement of universal basic education
(Grades 1-9). The plan will Incorporate provision for the necessary physical facilities,
for the development and production of teaching materials, for the phasing out of the
current Grade 8 selection examination and its replacement by a suitable examination at
the end of Grade 9, for teacher traninAg, and for the maintenance of facilities. The
plan wIll include indicative recurrent and capital costs for the proposed developments
and will suggest methods for the sustainable financing of the system. Taking account
of resource constraints, it will propose a time framework for the achievement of
universal basic education.
b.    examine the cost-effectiveness of the distaace education methods currently employed
in Zambia for increasing access to secondary education (correspondence programs and
open secondary schools) and make proposals for the expansion/curtailment of these
modes and of equivalency programs for secondary education (evening classes and
other modes, if any).
c.    The third study component will examine the cost-effectiveness, quality and financing
of private secondary schools and the feasibility (and modalities) of increasing
provision through greater involvement of the private sector.
Basic Schools
d.    survey the present distribution and state of basic schools and on the
basis of the survey information review the curriculum, quality, and
flnancing issues affecting these schools.
e.    quantify the recurrent cost implications of existing basic schools and
the capital cost implications of bringing existing schools to acceptable
standard-.
f.    analyze the outputs of basic schools in terms of academic
achievement, further education, training and employment opportunities
of graduates and determine the success of these schools in meeting
community aspirations.
g.    analyze the equity dimensions of basic schools, in particular in relation
to gender, access, geographical distribution and rural-urban
dimension.
h.    examine how in a period of transition basic schools and conventional
schools can co-exist and what implications of such co-existence are for
curriculum, education materials , teacher training and examinations.



-91-                     Annex 8.2  lacS
Page 5 of 12
4. TRAINING AND UTILIZATION OF TEACHERS
Rtationale
Teachers are one of the chief determinants of classroom achievement. They are also the most costly
element in the budget for education. Their training, deployment, effectiv, utilization, and proper
management have far-reaching educational and budgetary implications. Their impact on the budget
for education is such that a review is needed of policies and practices for their training, deployment
and administration. There is need also to identify options for improving their quality and increasing
efficiency in their utilization. Such an investigation bec-omes all the more important since the
universalization of primary education necessitates a large Increase in the number of teachers, while
the extension of basic schools and secondary education requires decisions on the levels of training
required and how it is to be prov;ided.
Study Areas
a.    The study will propose models for the initial training of primary and secondary
teachers that matches likely needs and available resources. The models will specify
when and how this training should take place and in what it should consist, taking
account of any reorganization that might be required bv the universalization of nine
years of basic education. The study will pay special attention to ways in which the
number of qualified teachers of mathematics and science can be increased. The
proposals will include indicative capital and recurrent costs.
b.    The deployment of teachers - examine existing norms and their application at national
and sub-national levels and establish the nature of the need for continued dependence
on untrained teachers. The study will investigate mechanisms for teacher
appointment, deployment, transfer and promotion, and will propose options for
utilizing teachers more efficiently and for forecasting future needs (in primary and
secondary schools) with greater precision. In particular, these issues would be
examined vis-a-vis female teachers at all levels of the education sector.
c.    investigate the ongoing professional development and quality improvement of teachers
and propose a broad plan of in-service training. The logistical, organizational and
financial implications of this plan will be developed in some detail. The plan will also
examine the role and utilization of Teachers' Centres and Resource Centres in
promoting the quality and effectiveness of teachers.
d.     examine factors that affect the work of teachers, paying particular attention to issues
of management, accommodation and remuneration, and make proposals for
improvements.
5.    GENDER ISSUES IN EDUCATION
Rationale
Girls and women suffer from major and multiple constraints that adversely affect their access to,
participation and performance in all levels of education and training. In Zambia, there exists general



-92-                      Annex 8: Policy Stes
Page 6 of 12
awareness of these gender disparities throughout the educational system. Various assumptions have
also been made on the causes of disparities and their implications. It is, for example, now generally
accepted that although the provision of equal facilities for girls and boys goes a long way towards
increasing female participation, it cannot by itself guarantee equal participation. Also, despite the
Government's affirmative action of lowering the cut-off point of entry into secondary school for girls,
gender disparities in enrollment at this level persist. No accurate assessment of its impact has been
undertaken. The lower performance by girls in all examinable subjects and in all regions is baffling
to educators, but no analysis has been carried out as to its causes. The total impact of gender
disparities on women's productivity and entry into the labor force demands sustained assessment in
the face of changing labor force demands. These and other issues constitute significant gaps in
knowledge about the education process, its interaction and impact on life and on gender roles and
relationships. This study would close such gaps and identify factors and strategies for improving the
situation.
StudyAra
a.    Knowledge up-date
*     A major survey of gender research in Zambia both published and unpublished
and a synthesis of important findings by sector will be undertaken, prior to the
start of the Project, i.e., summary of current knowledge.
*     A survey of on-going gender research, terms of reference, progressional status
and expectations will also be undertaken.
*     Information gained will be used for determining priorities and integrating on-
going research into the study.
b.    School-related Factors
*     Analysis of the extent and quality of girls' participation in all levels of
education and their experience in the educational process including gender bias
in learning materials, teaching strategies including quality of teacher/pupil
interaction (video-taped for feed-back and Teacher Training), assessment
procedures and school management.
*     Assessment of progression of females and males at different levels of the
formal education system and investigation of classroom interaction in co-
educational settings.
*     Analysis of factors hindering the participation of girls and women in
vocational and professional training programs and the impact of role models.
c.    Socio-Cultural and Economic Factors
*     Examination of the role of girls in low income households, the allocation by
gender of household resources for education and delineation of the roles. The
study will focus on parental and social attitudes and expectations; the impaAt
on girls' education of farnily size; family social, educational and economic
levels; family health status (especially in the light of the growing prevalence
of malnutrition and the impact of AIDS-related deaths on family size and
composition); and family geographical background (rural, urban, peri-urban,
remote, etc.).



-93-                    Annex 8 Pokicy Studies
Page 7 of 12
Assessment of the differential impacts of increased and reduced cost of
education-cost-sharing, subsidies-bursaries and scholarships, etc.
Survey of nature and extent of socio-cultural traditional practices (initiation
rites, early marriage, etc.) that persist and are resistant to change and their
impact on fPmale education and training.
d.    Sectoral and Hierarchical Linkages
*     Survey the participation of women in the labor force and the signals it sends
back to the education system.
*     Analyze the impact of female education on increased income
earning/generation, autonomy and self-reliance in decision-making.
*     Examine the impact of primary education on female participation and
achievement in secondary and tertiary levels and in vocational training.
Assess the adequacy of the school curricula for empowerment of gender roles
in health, agriculture, environment, participation in enmployment both formal
and informal, etc.
e.    Empowerment Models
Documentation of success stories-innovative strategies and illustrative case studies,
positive policies, etc., and recommendations for ways in which women and girls in
Zambia would be empowered through education.
6. CURRICULUM REVIW
Rationale
Fundamental to the development and Jffectiveness of any educational system is a clear identification
of objectives and of the learning experences needed for the attainment ot these objectives. A re-
examination of the structure and content of a school curriculum becomes necessary when, as in
Zambia, major chanves &, under way in the dirtion of a more liberal, pluralistic society, access to
different levels o. schooling is becoming more universalized, and prospects for future employment
remain poor.
Study ik
Ihe study *gill identify the attitudes, knowledge, and essential life and wommunication skills that
should be developed during the seven years primary cycle and the nine years basic education cycle.
It will also establish the learning experiences needed for the attainment of these objectives and thereby
will identify the core areas of knowledge and skills acquisition that the school curriculum should
promote. Drawing on expertise in various parts of the country, the study will indicate how this core
can be incorporated into a curriculum adapted to local needs. -fe study will clarify the relative roles
of academic, practical and vocational subjects at all levels of school education and will examine the
need for and feasibility of specialized schools (e.g., for science, agriculture, commercial subjects). It
will also examine the feasibility of a more divmified secondary school curriculum that would cater



-94-                      Annex 8: PolIcy Stues
Page 8 of 12
for a more comprehensive range of student abilities and interests. Of special interest will be the close
examination of the curriculum to eliminate all gender stereotyping and references likely to adversely
affect girls.
7. CHOLERA AND ENVIRONMENTALLY RELATED ILLNESSES IN SCHOOLS
Rationale
Cholera has become endemic in several of Zambia's cities and major towns, with severe outbreaks
occurring especially during the annual rains. Cholera outbreaks lead to lengthy closures of schools in
affected areas and of schools where sanitary facilities preselit a health hazard. These closures are
symptomatic of a much larger health problem that reflects the poor physical environment in which
learning takes place. Scabies, dysentery and malaria, though not as widely publicized, are in fact
more serious causes of prolonged school absenteeism and drop out than cholera. And yet, schools
should be in the vanguard in combatting cholera, and other diarrhoeal diseases, through the education
of students and the transmission of health messages and practices to families and communities.
Schools should play this role through formal health and sanitation education and through the sanitary
practices and environment that they establish.
a.    quantify the extent of environmental illnesses in schools.
b.     examine those schools that have been repeatedly closed during cholera outbreaks to
determine the adequacy and functioning of the toilet and water facilities, the training
provided to children in the proper use of these facilities, and the extent of formal
health and sanitation education within the school curriculum. The toilet and water
facilities available to the community from which the school draws its intake will also
be surveyed in order to determine the correspondence between school and home
facilities. The survey of school water and sanitation systems in cholera-affected
schools will indicate, with indicative costings, where improvements or new systems
are required. The study will also examine how such improved facilities can be
maintained and the procedures needed to ensure a disease-free environment within the
school.
c.    identify ways in which school children can be more actively involved in the
prevention of cholera and other diarrhoeal diseases. This component will first build
up base-line information on socializing practices in the home and on home education
on the need for cleanliness in food-handling, water systems and toilet use. It will
examine how the school curriculum can complement and improve on what is learned
in the home so that children are equipped with the knowledge and trainod in the
practices that will protect them personally against contamination and will enable them
to be agents for change in their homes and communities. The study will identify the
type of curriculum materials needed for this education, the training teachers may
require before using them, and possible incentive schemes to encourage schools to
play a more leading role in the elimination of cholera and other diarrhoeal diseases.



Anne 8: POlicy SO dies
Page 9 of 12
d.    examine the compensatory educational measures that need to be taken on behalf of
children attending schools that suffer long closures during cholera outbreaks. The
stud; will give indicative costings of such interventions as it may recommend.
8.  THE DEVE LOPMENT OF MGIER EDUCATION
Rationale
Analyses of education in Zambia and proposals for development have tended to concentrate on school
development. The major educational reform exercise in 1975-77 and the more recent document
Focus on Learning dealt with school education almost to the exclusion of the post secondary
education. There are now two universities with a combined output of about 1 ,0Q0 graduates as well
as a wide range of tertiary level institutions. The universities absorb a significant proportion of the
budget for the sector, but in common with other educational institutions they are under-resourced.
The inadequacy of resources, inefficient utilization of such resources as are available, grave internal
managerial problems, cumbersome administrative and academic procedures, low levels of research, a
small annual output of postgraduate students, teaching staff demoralized by low levels of
remuneration, excessively many and unproductive non-teaching staff, and a discontented student body
that has occasioned frequent university closures: all raise questions about the ability of the
universities to produce highly trained top-quality individuals who can assume posts of responsibility in
government, the professions and commercial life, and to support them with quality research, advice
and consultancies. There is an urgent need for a comprehensive evaluation of the entire university
system in Zambia. There is also need to determine how, under existing constraints, the universities
can be helped to deliver quality higher education, first-rate research and in-depth consultancy. Also,
the twin pressures of social demand and manpower needs exert considerable pressure for the further
expansion of university-level education. A study is needed to determine the extent to which this is
desirable and feasible, given the climate of economic difficulties and the problems that have become
endemic to the universities.
Study -ra
a.    The study will propose strategies for improving and, as circumstances dictate,
expanding or consolidating university education under current economic constraints,
taking into account the academic quality of current university provision, the levels of
research and postgraduate work, the manpower and development needs of the
economy and of the cultural milieu, the academic and managerial systems of the two
universities, the effective utilization of academic and non-academic staff, and issues of
student participation and discipline. The study will also analyze the financing of
university education, examining unit costs in relation to field of study and determining
the public cost of producing a university graduate, and will propose strategies for the
sustainable financing of university education. The studies would include examination
of incentive structures for the participation of private sector in post-secondary
education.
b.    The study will conduct tracer studies in specified areas to determine the use university
graduates make of their education and the relevance of such education to subsequent
fields of employment.



-96-                      Annex 8: Pol  SUies
Page 10 of 12
c.    The study will investigate the feasibility of transferring to other existing institutions
responsibility for much that is included in the first two years of undergraduate study
so that university resources can be utilized more efficiently for high-level training.
This feasibility study will include an investigation of the desirability and need for a
pre-ur. -ersity program, particularly in mathematics and science, and/or for the
extension of secondary schooling by one year for potential university entrants. The
human resource and cost implications of such developments will be presented as part
of the feasibility study.
d.    The study would review strategies for broadening the pool of middle
and high level members of the labor force not just through the
university but also through middle level training institutions.
9.    OUT-OF-SCHOOL YOUTH
Rationale
About 61 percent of the population of Zambia is under 20 years of age, in a country with one of the
highest urbanization rates in Africa. Because of a huge unmet demand for primary education, large
numbers of 7-13 year olds never get a chance to go to prinary school. Of those who do, many drop
out before attaining functional literacy. The transition rate to secondary school is about 30 percent,
while the absorptive capacity of the labor market for the unskilled and semi-skilled has been steadily
declining. The result is a diverse group of out of school youth whose characteristics are not
understood and whose needs ,re not sufficiently catered for. This study would analyze the n ture and
number of out of school youth, review the reasons for their being out of school, identify present
patterns of skill acquisition and work in which out-of-school youth engage, identify the opportunities
that exist or that could be made available for training and skill development, and make
recommendations for reducing the rate of wastage in schools.
Study Area
a.    Characteristics: Different sub-groups of out of school youth would be studied. their
special needs identified, and strategies for meeting them developed. Major sub-groups
include: (a) those that are functionally illiterate because they never went to school or
because they dropped out of school too early to attain functional literacy; (b) girls
leaving prematurely at the upper primary level; and (c) youth who remain6 or
returned to rural centers. Key issues to consider wsould include reasons for leaving
school, disaggregated by systemic factors (e.g., lack of school places or
personal/family reasons such as pregnancy). Trends and changes in the characteristics
and needs of these groups, especially given the dramatic shifts in the economic
situation, would be explored.
b.    Tracer study of a small cross-section of these youths to deepen understanding of the
options and opportunities open to them.
C.    Labor market analysis to determine the absorptive capacity of out of school youth,
the suitability of their skills to the needs of the labor market, identify new and/or
under-utilized opportunities for employment. Also, analysis of skill requirement



-97-                     Aannex 8 POlicy Siudke
Page 11 of 12
acquired by youth in relation to self-employnent and entrepreneurship, and constraint
for utilizing these opportunities.
d.    Opportunities for further education and training: Alternatives to formal eduaion,
lwiuding distance education and work-based training and the feasibility of expanding
t' tse opportunities wil'l be explored.
e.    Strategies for meeting the needs of out of school youth including strengthening
linkages with youth programs and entrepreneurship development programs. Attention
should be given to she present role and potential contribution by local authorities,
inaustry, NGOS and community associations.
10. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
Rationale
In Zambia, the chief providers and managers of education at independence were voluntary agencies
and local authoritles. Concern about the marginalization of the poor and the entrenchment of
privileges for the wealthy led to the Government adopting .t centralized system of control and
management of education. Recent political and economic trends in Zambia are gradually reversing
this trend, with increased participation of communities in the delivery of education; but the process is
unplanned and unquantified, and, therefore, difficult to monitor. Until the major political transition
last year, the party machinery which had strong grass-root presence linked the center with the
periphery and was an effective conduit for coordinating community participation. It Is not yet clear
what will replace this mechanism. These are some of the issues that this study would address.
Reasons for increasing the level of community participation go beyond the need to augment
Govermnent resources. The beneficiaries who perceive themselves as being closely involved with the
running of the school respond more positively and promptly to its needs. Conversely, systems that
are highly centralized tend to create a distance between the schools and the communities, one
explanation which is given for the high level of vandalization of schools in Zambia.
Studv Area
a.    Organization and management of community partid:pation: after defining the u,rt
of analysis (individual, household, community or MTAs), to assess how participation is
organized and managed and to what extent communities are consulted, involved in
decisions that affict them, and given an opportunity to initiate or define the actions;
and to determine stages at which communities are involved, and the individuals or
institutions which organize them. The Beneficiary Assessment is yielding data that
will help answer some of these question .
b.    Levels and patterns of participation: to determine how much communities are
actually contributing, in what aspects of educational development and in what form,
and to enumerate the expenditure items (e.g., uniforms, books, construction); to
quantify community contributions as a proportion of the total resources going into
education; and to describe variations in the nature and levels of community



-98-                    Annex  , Poy SiE
Page 12 of 12
participation at different education levels as well as variations in nature and level of
participation across the country.
C.     Attitudes towards partidpatlon: to understand how beneficiaries of the education
system perceive their participation in its planning and delivery and what modifications
they would want.
d.    Costs of participation: to assess the indirect and unintended impact of participation,
e.g., equity issues, disaggregated by geoder and region.
e.    Synthesis and recommendations: to synthesize key findings and recommendations as
discussed in study 1 above.



-9-        s      Annex  - echn    A anc
Page I of 
ZAMBIA EDUC rION  fABJLOAN PROJECt
A: Examinatiom
OI)    Examinations Specialist
Throughout the life of the project (1993-97), the examinations specialist will work
within the Examinations Council of Zambia (ECZ). S/he will be responsible for the
development and implementation of a program to improve the quality of examinations in
Zambia. In addition, the specialist will coordinate the development of basic competency tests
to be used to measure learner achievement at the mid-primary stage. S/he will also be
responsible for the design and administration of short-duration training programs in
educational assessment.
The specialist will also guide and support the establishment of a feed-back system to
schools so that information from examinations is disseminated to schools and to the Ministry.
In particular, the specialist will design a standard format for the annual publication and
analysis of examination results.
The examinations specialist should have a post-graduate degree in education or related
field and extensive experience in examination systems test development and research on
measurement techniques. This experience should have been gained either in an African
examining authority or an international agency which administers examinations in Africa.
Experience of project administration would be an advantage.
(ii)   Computer Specialist
The computer specialist wUI be expected to advise the Examinations Council on the
purchase of hardware and the development of software to meet examination processing
requirements. ir particular, the specialist wIll be expected to set up a data entry and retrieval
system which will allevlte many of the current data processing problems.
The computer specialist will also prepare and implement plans for the phased transfer
of data processing activities from UNZA and the Ministry of Finance to the Examinations
Council. Such plans wIll include the training of Zambian personnel for the management and
operation of the Council's computer services.
The computer speciaiist should have extensive experience covering a wide range of
hardware and software environments. S/he should have been involved in database design,
preferably in an educational context. Knowledge of examination procedures would be an
advantage as would work experience gained in Africa.



-100-              AnneX 9: Technial Assistanee
Page 2 of 6
ill)   Examination Management Specialist
The management specialist will be appointed for a twelve-month period. S/he will be
responsible for the preparation of a report for the Examinations Council of Zambia (ECZ),
defining the responsibilities and functions of the Council. S/he will then define the key tasks
and objectives of ECZ and prepare detailed plans for the reorganization of ECZ to enable
these objectives to be met with maximum efficiency.
The management specialist will also be required to prepare, after negotiation with
members of staff, detailed job descriptions incorporating responsibilities defined under the
new organizational structure. The management specialist wIll specify a suitable management
training course, or courses, for ECZ managers and will arrange for at least two to be trained
during the first year of the project.
The selected specialist should have extensive experience in organizational
management, gained in a commercial and/or educational environment. Knowledge of the
functions of an educational assessment agency is necessary. Previous involvement in project
administration and work experience in sub-Saharan Africa is highly desirable.
Ov)   Office Systems Specialist
The office systems specialist will advise the Council on the best use of its
administrative resources, particularly in the fields of record keeping, document production and
printing/duplication. The specialist will:
*     Establish a secure system for the storage and retrieval of examination records
and statistics;
*     Train a counterpart in the maintenance of a record-keeping system;
*     Assist in the introduction of word processing equipment into the Council and
advise on the design of standardized documentation which will increase the
efficiency of the examining process;
*     Assist the Council's Print Officer in establishing printing schedules and a print
'progress chasing' system.
The office systems specialist should have extensive experience in the field of office
management. Knowledge of the administrative functions of an educational assessment agency
would be an advantage. Expertise in the fields of woird processing and print ordering would
be highly desirable.
B.    Education Management
OI)    TrainIng Co-ordinator
The Training Co-ordinator (IC) will have overall responsibility for the planning and
implementation of the Education Management and Planning component of the IDA project.



-101-            ^Annex 9: .Technal Assistance
Pag. 3 of 6
S/he will be attached to the Manaemert Development Coordinating Committee (MDCC),
chaired by the Chief Inspector of Schools, which is responsible for the coordination of all
training and other human resource development activities within the Ministry of Education
(MOE). The TC will have a counterpart under each of the sub-components: training of
education managers, teachers' records and management of information. Each counterpart wIll
be a representative of the relevant unit within the MOE, and all will be members of the
MDCC. The TC will report to the Chief Inspector of Schools but would report to the Project
Coordinator at ZEPIU for matters regarding IDA inputs and coordination with other
components.
The TC would inter alia:
*     Develop work-plans for the execution of all activities under this component, in
liaison with the counterpart team to be approved by the MDCC;
*     Coordinate the implementation of the various activities under the work-plans
together with counterparts;
*     Liaise with the Project Coordinator on issues of procurement and hiring of
technical assistants, both local and foreign;
*     Maintain close contact with the various institutions providing training and TA
services;
*     Serve as Secretary of the MDCC and provide expert advice to the committee;
The person selected for this job should meet the following requirements:
*     A first degree in Education or in Social Sciences at minimmum, with a bias
towards management, planning and/or administration (post-graduate training in
these areas would be highly desirable);
*     Experience in Government administration and/or in project implementation;
*     Good communication skills and the ability to work well with others.
01)   Tedcical Assistance nstitution: Training and Institutional Support
The institution will be responsible for all of the local trainin g to be provided under the
IDA project; specifically, the training of headmasters, education officers and inspectors. The
institution will provide services in close consultation wita ine Training Coordinator in the
MOE (described in the TOR above). The supervision of the planning and provision of
training under this component rests with the MDCC in the MOE. Actual execution of the
assistance will be planned and conducted jointly with the authorities in the local institutions
(e.g. UNZA/School of Education and the Teacher Training Colleges (rTCs). This institution



-102-             An= 9: Technical Assiance
Page 4 of6
will work closely with the Inspectorate in the preparation of the program and the monitoring
of its impact.
The specific tasks of the institution will be:
*     Provide technical assistance for the preparation and execution of a program of
one-month basic courses for all prinary school head-teachers, to be given at
all provincial Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs). The assistance would be
divided as follows:
-     overall preparation, development of training materials, and training of
trainers;
-     intensive participation and guidance in conducting the first course,
including a month of monitoring;
three months a year (for four years) for input into the training
program and for monitoring and follow-up assistance.
*     Provide technical assistance for the preparation and execution of a three-month
intensive course for education officers and inspectors at intermediate levels.
This course will be offered at the University of Zambia (UNZA). The
assistance would be divided as follows:
-      arranging (including field orientation) a high-level workshop for the
design of the course and the development of course materials;
-      conducting the courses, followed by field visits for monitoring and
follow-up during every year of the project;
*     Provide professional back-stopping for the technical assistants TA in the field
by identifying existing training materials, management courses, monitoring
techniques and evaluation procedures;
-     Arrange 3-month advanced courses in education management and
administration for a total of 22 tutors from lTCs, who will be trained during
the last four years of the project;
O     Identify titles for a basic stock of 100 books for both the University in the
areas of education management and administration, and of 30 books for each
of the 10 TTCs and NIS'TCOL.
The institution selected for these tasks should have:
*     A reputable capability in training in education management and administration;
*     High-quality staff and/or network that can be used to provide technical
assistance;
*     Advanced training programs within the institution in which Zambian tutors
can participate;
*     Capacity to provide the required back-stopping facilities.



-103-             Annex 9: Technl Anistance
Page 5 of 6
(iii)   Technical Assistance Institution: Teachers' Records Management
The institution wIll provide technical support in the wholesale improvement of the
system of teachers' records and the overall management of information on teachers. This part
of the project will be implemented within the context of the larger NESIS project. All TA
input will be harmonized with other TA support in the broader NESIS project.
The institution wIll:
*     Assist the MOE in the design of an efficient system for the management of
teachers' records and in the preparations for the implementation of the new
system. This will involve:
-     Specification of the data required;
-     Development of a 'unique identification number' for all teachers;
-     Development of an appropriate and efficient method for the
verification of all available data as well as for the collection of new
data;
-     Review of the distribution of responsibilities for teacher management
and administration between key sections at national level (Teaching
Service Commission (TSC), Staffing, Inspectorate, etc.) and between
the national and local lvels in the system;
-     Review of the system for circulating teachers' records, including those
sections who use teachers' files away from the main MOE building;
Preparation of an interim strategy during the transition to the new
system, with a view to computerizing the system by the end of the
project.
*     Supervise the actual introduction of the new system, provide in-house training
and on-the-job support. This will include:
-      Supervision of the necessary pruning, reorganization and rebinding of
files, and the reorganizing of archives;
-     Advising different user sections on the development of alternative
methods of circulating records;
-     Providing advice on improved system of collecting data on teachers as
part of the school census, an on the improved processing of such data
at different levels;
-      Supervision of the reorganization of registry space at national and
provincial levels;
-     Providing professional guidance to personnel officers.
*     Computerize key teacher data at the national level. This will include:
-      Design of software, considering experiences of other countries in the
region;
-      Supervision of the identification and installation of the computer
system;
-     Provision of on-the-job training and guidance for data entry and for
the use of the system;



-104-            Annex 9: Technical Asslistance
Page 6 of 6
Advising on linkages between the data collection and the computer
system already available in the Planning Unit.
The institution selected for these tasks must be able to perform them thoroughly and
efficiently within the time period determined by the MOE. The institution should have:
*     Direct practical expertise in teacher reird management, including a
computerized system;
*     Staff of sufficient seniority and outside contacts as well as with adequate
experience to ensure the appropriateness and smooth implementation of the
proposed system;
*     Experience in developing and maintaining a teacher record management
system in developing countries, preferably in sub-Saharan Africa.



-105-            Annex 10:f Overmens a/ the SRF
Page 1 of 3
OPERATIONS OF 1i SOCIAL RECOVERY FUND
1.           The Social Recovery Fund (SRF), which in this project is referred to as the
Social Recovery Project Unit (SRFU), is an agency under the National Council for
Development Planning (NCDP) under the office of the President. It is closely coordinated
with the offices that manage the Government's Social Action Programme and the European
Community's Microprojects Programme (the Microprojects Unit (MPU)). With funding from
IDA"', Norway and Sweden, the SRF identifies, appraises and finances small-scale
community-based projects. It also manages a study and analysis program to help improve
planning and policy making in the social sectors.
2.           The SRF undertakes activities in many areas including health and nutrition,
water schemes, economic infrastructure and education. Within education and training the
SRF funds: (a) rehabilitation and expansion of primary and secondary schools; and (b)
training in skills development.
3.           The SRF has funded consumable items such as supplies or materials for
renovated health posts and schools. Such financing.is an extra incentive for successful and
timely completion of the construction phase of specific sub-projects.
4.           For the purpose of screening, sub-project categories are assigned a priority
from one (highest priority) to four (lowest priority). Based on this priority, sub-project
proposals are selected for appraisal. Within each sub-project category the highest priority is
given to projects that benefit women and small children. The sub-projects with highest
priority are:
-     rehabilitation of health centers;
-     rehabilitation of childcare centers or shelters;
-     preventive health and nutrition programs;
-     equipment and inputs for rehabilitated health centers;
-     health and nutritional training;
-     community vegetable gardens;
-     rehabilitation of water supply systems;
-     expansion of water supply systems;
-     latrines and other simple sanitation;
-     rehabilitation of primary schools;
-     expansion of primary schools;
furniture and materials for rehabilitated primary
schools; and
skills development training.
Social Recovery Project, approved June 1991, Credit 2273-ZA



-106-              Annex 10OGeradons of the SRr
Page 2 of 3
Development and Approval of Sub-projects
5.           The SRF follows a project cycle based on the experience of the MPU. This
cycle has the advantage of working through the budget process of the District Councils (DCs)
and Provincial Planning Units (PPUs) without having the sub-projects delayed at either level.
6.           The first step in the project cycle is outreach activities to introduce the
program to the communities of Zambia. SRF staff holds workshops in each province inviting
representatives from the DCs, PPUs, and NGOs to participate. These workshops explain the
purpose of the SRF and its procedures, as well as train the community representatives in how
to work with their communities to identify priorities and complete the sub-project request
form. Outreach activities are targeted to areas and sectors from which few or poor-quality
proposals are forthcoming.
7.           The communities must establish a Project Committee (PC) that is responsible
for implementing the sub-project. These committees frequently are drawn from existing
women's groups or Parent-Teacher Associations. When the communities are ready to submit
sub-projects, they initiate the project cycle by sending a completed sub-project application
form to the DC. The form includes information on the beneficiaries, a description of the sub-
project and its costs. The DC then clears the sub-project proposal, indicating its consistency
with district plans, and sends it on to the PPU. The PPU also indicates whether the proposal
is consistent with the province's priorities. The PPU must also give a letter of commitment
for any facilities requiring staffing, as the PPU manage the budget for recurrent costs in
primary health and education. The SRF has not experienced any delays in this process since
the DCs and the PPUs meet every quarter and come under significant pressure from their
communities if they hold up the sub-projects.
8.           The cleared sub-projects are sent from the PPUs to the SRF for evaluation.
At each review (by DCs and PPUs) a copy of the request is also submitted to the SRF,
enabling the SRF to monitor the review process. NGOs submitting sub-projects do not have
to go through the DCs and PPUs formally. Nonetheless, they must get a letter from the PPU
stating that the sub-project is consistent with provincial plans and that any extra staff that the
NGOs' sub-project required will be made available. Once dhey have this, the NGOs send
their sub-project proposals directy to the SRF.
9.           The SRF appraises sub-projects by sending a staff member for a site visit.
The staff member is responsible for gathering any information not included in the request
form regarding the sub-project's impact and costs. He or she also assesses the
implementation capacity of the executing agency. An appraisal form is completed (available
in project files), which, if SRF staff clear the sub-project, is the format in which it is
presented to the Steering Committee.
10.          The Steering Committee for the Project meets every quarter to review sub-
project proposals. This Committee consists of the Project Coordinator, the Permanent
Secretary for Economic Cooperation in the President's Office, the Director of Regional
Planning from the National Commission for Development Planning, representatives from the
planning units of the MOH and MOE, and an NGO representative appointed by the NGO
Forum. The World Bank Resident Representative is a non-voting member. For sub-projects



-107-            Annex 10: Oueradons of the SRF
Page 3 of 3
that are approved, a contract is signed between the PC (or NGO) and the SRF. Approved
sub-projects are sent to the SAP Coordinator for information.
11.          Whenever possible the SRF holds a sub-project launch workshop in the
community to teach the PC to keep the accounts of the sub-project and inform it about its
other responsibilities in implementing the sub-project. After the sub-project contract is
signed, an initial disbursement of 36 percent of SRF contribution to the sub-project is paid
into an account established by the PC. Later payments to the PC are made based cn work
completed and justification of expenditures. Each disbursement request must be countersigned
by the SRF staff member supervising the sub-project and the relevant DC. On average, SRF
makes four supervision visits per sub-project. Six months after sub-project completion, a
follow-up visit is made to assess the impact of the sub-project.



-10)8-       Annex 11: Role f Donors In Educadlon
Page 1 of 2
ROLE OF DONORS IN EDUCATION
1.           Learning Materials: The Zambia Education Materials Project (ZEMP) jointly
funded by SIDA and FINNIDA is the most comprehensive support program for production and
distribution of learning materials. Initially, the program supported the development and
distribution of secondary textbooks and the emergency reprinting of primary school titles but has
increasingly become involved in the production of new primary school textbooks. SIDA also
supports the production of primary school exercise books and desks. In the next three years, ODA
will spend about US$2 million on the supply of supplementary readers to primary schools. ODA
has also supported the university with books. A program funded by UNESCO and UNDP
supports the production of basic science and teaching equipment but its output is quite limited
and insufficient to meet the demand. EC has provided dictionaries and atlases to primary schools.
2.           Physical facilities: For over ten years, NORAD has provided the most consistent
support to secondary school maintenance which has also helped to strengthen building and
maintenance capacity for the ZEPIU. FINNIDA will support a primary school maintenance
program beginning in 1993. School rehabilitation and extension with heavy community
participation has been very effectively supported through the micro-projects unit supported by the
EC and the IDA Social Recovery Project. As can be seen from the table below, many donors are
involved in construction and rehabilitation of physical facilities but their support is generally
discrete and or limited to a particular district. In the next five years OPEC and ADB have planned
large support programs to school construction.
3.           Education Planning and Management: SIDA has provided consistent support to
the MOE planning unit which has included training, equipment and technical assistance. Through
the planning unit and the SHAPE program, SIDA has also given support to in-service training for
education officers, inspectors and headteachers. More recently FINNIDA has reinforced this
effort with TA in the MOE planning unit and the building section. ODA is currently supporting a
review of the management of the university, the inservice training of teachers of science and
mathematics and fellowships for various cadre in the MOE. UNESCO and SIDA are in the
process of preparing a support program for the organization, generation, analysis and
dissemination of education statistics.
4.           Teacher Training: CIDA supports the strengthening of primary school science,
mathematics and home economics curricula in TTICs. UNDP/UNESCO supports the upgrading of
primary school teachers in science and mathematics in order to qualify them for teaching in basic
schools. ODA supports in-service programs for science and mathematics teachers.
5.           Non-formal Education: UNICEF has supported various activities to promote
functional literacy and early childhood education.



-109-          jnex 11: Role of DoIwrs&j  ducadlon
Page 2 of 2
Table 1: Zambia: Donor Involvement in Education
Physical Facilides  Learning        Planning and    Teacher        Technioal        Ecucational
Equipment        Materials       Management    Education        Assistance        Research
Personnel                    and Staff
Training
Primary School   FINNIDA, SIDA     FINNIDA,          SIDA         SIDA                            SIDA
OPEC,              SIDA, EC          UNESCO       FINNIDA                         FINNIDA
ADB, EC            ODA               FINNIDA      ODA, UNDP                       IDRC, NORAD
Secondary       JICA, GTZ          ODA, EC           UNESCO                      ODA
NORAD              UNESCO, UNDP
Technical       JICA                                               CIDA          ODA, JICA
Vocational                                                        ODA            Ireland
Teacher         ADB, CIDA          SIDA              CIDA         SIDA           ODA              SIDA
Training        JICA               FINNIDA           ODA           CIDA
Universities    IICA               ODA                            Australia      ODA, EC
ODA           SIDA, JICA
France,
Belgium,
Netherlands
Preschool       SIDA               UNICEF
Literacy        UNICEF                                                           FINNIDA          FINNIDA
Special         SIDA               UNICEF            FINNIDA       FINNIDA                        SIDA
Education                          SIDA                           SIDA



-110-
A,nex 12: Gender Sen,ilivit InditS
Page 1 of 2
Criteria for Appraising Gender Sensitivity
in Textbooks and Examination Ouestions
The following check-list is not exhaustive and is open to adaptation to suit the analysis of any text.
a)    Summary Indicators
(i)    Frequency and nature/manner of appearance of characters by gender.
(ii)   Named and unnamed characters, individualized or grouped.
(iii)   Work/employment images.
(iv)   Socio-politicai images - ownership, buying, investing, giving, sharing, receiving,
etc.
(v)    Family roles.
(vi)   Psychological traits - courageous, docile, innovative, dynamic, simpleton,
authoritative, etc.
b)    Analysis Strategies
(i)    Breakdown of characters by gender and number, and count frequency of mention.
(ii)   Listing of number of females mentioned by name and those nameless.
(iii)   Listing of gender - indicated common nouns and classification as female/male adult,
female/male child.
(iv)   Order of appearance by gender in terms of page of appearance and placement on page
and sentence.
(v)    Listing, categorizing and counting roles of characters identified by gender.
(vi)   Determining centrality of characters by in-depth analysis of relationships and
prominence patterns of presentation.
(vii)  Counting pictures of female/male adults and children.
(viii)  Determining role models for girls as compared with boys.



-111-
Annex 12: ender Sens,ldv i    trS
Page 2 of 2
(ix)   Noting method of presentation of characters by gender - order of presentation,
autonomy/dependency, as corollary or complement, respective female/male roles
in the home, etc.
(x)    Awareness of language and the way traditionally 'neutral' words are used, e.g. man,
people, traders, farmers, etc., and how pronouns are used, e.g. "The farmer
and her cows."
c)     Proposals for improving accuracy of gender roles including affirmative portrayal to
counter/redress current imbalances.
(i)    Increased use of neutral nouns and pronouns.
(ii)    Deliberate allocation of positive roles for women and girls and increased reference to
girls and women with due regard to first appearance, order of presentation and
centrality of character.
(iii)  Increase in the number of named female characters and in the use of femiine
descriptions - headmistress, business-woman, etc. - as appropriate.
(iv)   Deliberate eare in presentation of relationships between characters - balancing the
role of dependency, authority and autonomy by gender.
(v)    Increased portrayal of women and girls in economic and political roles.
(vi)   Deliberate increase of female role models, with particular reference to female
participation and achievement in science and technology, agriculture, professions and
in leadership roles.
(vii)   Greater emphasis on female intellectual and professional capacities.
(viii)  Depiction of males in family-related capacities and increased depiction ef sharing of
domestic roles.



-112-          Annex 131.  Bened(cary Assessment
-Pge I of 2
Renefidar,y Assessment
1.           The objective of this assessment is to gain an appreciation of beneficiaries'
perceptions of both the more general aspects of education and specific issues relating to school
attendance and the provision of education services. In this way, the assessment aims to determine
parents' attitudes towards issues related to the utility of learning, and the corresponding value
attached to school attendance. On a more specific level. the study would intend to assess
families' impressions of the immediate learning environment, including school facilities, teachers,
learning materials, etc. The study also aims to assess with greater exactitude the strengths and
weaknesses of communication of local government, NGO's and community organisations, as
expressed by community members. The ultimate objective of the assessment would be to
ascertain what concrete new policies or actions could be established to improve access to,
effectiveness of, and participation in education by communities and households. By way of
feedback to project managers, information elicited through the assessment could be directly
integrated into the planning and implementation process such that the services and facilities
provided correspond to and are informed by beneficiaries' concerns and preferences.
2.           The principal methodology employed will be conversational interviewing and will
be carried out as described below. Focus group interviews, case studies and participant
obsb'vation will also be utilized. The research will be undertaken by a team affiliated with the
Rurai Development Studies Bureau (RDSB) at the University of Zambia. The RDSB is presently
carrying out the beneficiary assessment under the IDA Social Recovery Project (SRP) and the
Education assessment will be built into this ongoing study. It is envisaged that two of the existing
three research teams and six of the present nine researchers will be used. The two team leaders
and four researchers took part in a ten-day induction course before the current assessment went to
the field, and by now are very familiar with both the research methodology and with the purpose
and objectives of the study.
3.           The assessment will be carried out in the urban areas of Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola
and would consist of two phases. The first phase, lasting six weeks, will have a double function:
on the one hand, it will serve as a baseline study to establish pre-existing conditions, levels of
awareness, social and economic indicators, enrollment rates, etc. It will also assess the likely
benefits, as e rticulated by the communities, of primary school construction/rehabilitation projects
for which the sites, serving the communities in question, have been pre-selecied. In this vein,
recommendations could be presented suggesting modifications of aspects of the projects so as to
increase their effectiveness. The first phase would coincide with the project's being declared
effective. It is anticipated that the fieldwork will consist of two weeks in each of the towns (42
person/days) and that two weeks will be required to compile an initial report. Compound areas
for interviewing will be pre-selected by the RDSB Coordinator and 10% of the areas will be
"virgin' communities where no prospective projects are planned for. Random stratified sampling
will be used to select households for interviewing. The second phase will serve as a monitoring
exercise and will comprise the follow-up assessments in the second, third, fourth and fifth years
of the project, determining the changes associated with the project, as perceived by the
beneficiaries. These will again involve a six-week fieldwork exercise and a report-writing period.
The second and third year follow-up studies will be integrated into the second and third phases of



-113-          Annex 13: Benefclaav Assessment
Page 2 of 2
the SRP beneficiary assessment. Findings at each stage of the study will be presented in
workshops in which the relevant community, government, NGO and dc -or personnel would
participate.
4.            A supplementary interview guide will be prepared to assist the researchers. This
*         guide will highlight the areas of particular concern and will provide a loose structure for the
nature and content of the interviews. It will be divided into three sections: Section (1) will guide
the conversational interviewing of beneficiaries and will focus on household behaviour and
education-related decision-making in the household; Section (2) will concentrate more on the
effect of education policies, the provision of services and the role of intermediary institutions on
the disposition and activities of households; Section (3) will provide a framework for participant
observation and indicate the relevant background information to be sourced from project
personnel. The following issues will be stressed:
*     parental background: parents' educational achievements. Social composition of
area under assessment: what are the labor market conditions?
*      attitudes related to the utility of learning; the value attached to nW>ndan=,
especially in connection with girls' participation. How often are girls kept away
from school, and for what reasons? What, if any, action does the school take?
3     repetition and dropout: when do non-enrolled children enter the labor market?
Are they literate? What Grades are reached by different children in the same
household? Is there a pattern of seasonal absences? What are parents'
impressions of essential and desireable length of schooling and the factors that
contribute to dropout and extended absences.
-     willingness and ability to pay: what is the share of education as a percentage of
the overall household budget?
*     beneficiaries' impressions of teachers, PTA, local government units. How
effective is the communication?
o     learning resources: willingness to buy textbooks, uniforms, etc.
a                 e      beneficiaries' perceptions of sustainability issues/responsibility for maintenance of
school. Attitudes towards theft and vandalism.



-11 4-     lAnnex 14  st of Documents In the Prolect Fle
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN TE PROJECT FILE
1.    Academy for Educational Development, Assessment of the Primary and Non-formal
Education Sub-sectors in Zambia, Report to USAID/Zambia, June 1991.
2.    Bethell, George, Zambia: Improving Examinations to Enhance Educational Quality,
Lusaka, 1992.
3.    de Messieres, Olivier, Zambia: Self-management of the Primary School Domain,
Lusaka, 1991.
4.    Gachukia, Edda, Zambia: Gender Issues in Education, Lusaka, May 1992.
5.    Government of Zambia, Focus on Learning: Strategies for the Development of
School Education in Zambia, Lusaka, October 1991.
6.                         , Fourth National Development Plan (1989-1993)
7.    Hoppers, Wim, Zambia: Educational Management and Planning Component, Lusaka,
1992.
8.    Jonsson, Ann, Zambia: Educational Materials, Lusaka, 1992.
9.    Kaluba, Henry, Zambia: Urban Primary School Development School Mapping
Report, Lusaka, 1992.
10.   Kiragu, Kithinji, Zambia: Background Report on Financial Issues, Lusaka, 191.
11.   Phillip, Lois, Zambia: The Health Education Dimension, Lusaka, May 1992.
12.   Sinke, Leo, Zambia: Report on the Physical Aspects of the Primary Education Sectog
Rehabilitation Project, Lusaka, 1992.
13.   Wright, Cream, Zambia: Report on Teacher Education, Lusaka, 1991.



1961; CENSJS:          - Roads
One dot represents 500 persons  Railways
lbwn ppulct[ons:
50,00C           npt  S o s
O                  +    A00,000irield'
- I   200,000               Proincial boundaries
-Ifternational boundor,  s
A   N   G  1.  A                                       L,_ _ _b  rnba                           ' s
0~~~~~~ sovE i0 I                                               M.nd    Chi
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                MukI>CsIRB  ts     j lither.
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    p202                                                             R         E R.t
!   o8                                       -5   $ ~~" la i; 24  eN'B0TSWANA)                              =
| << S t z I M b ~~~~~~~A                                    P    
L   ---a-  ;-S~~~~AIR
Ai    N4 GhsrOSA



