DCOcUMS of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No P-5896-ZA
IEKO4RANDUM AND RECOMMEDATIlON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN TME AmOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$32 MELLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION REABILITATION PROJECT
SEPTUER 29 ,1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5896 ZA        Type: (PM)
Title: EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJE
Author: KAGIA, R
Ext. :33314 Room:J11082 Dept.:AF6PH
This docmeot has a restricted distribution aod may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thdi ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak authorization.



CRREN  EOlUlVALENTS
(May 1992)
Currency Unit    =    Zambian Kwacha (K)
K1    =    US$Q.0051
US$1.00                  K195
SDRl.00    =    EC282
CALNJhMj--  F-ISCAL YEAR
1 January to 31 December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB1ADF                            African Developmnt Ba/Afican Davelopmet Fund
CDC                                 Currculum Dvelopma Cetre
CSO                                 central Statistls Office
CFB                                 Central Tender Board
DEO                                 Distrdt Educatio Office
BC                                  Burope  Commumity
ECZ                                 Examinations Council of Zamnbia
EMIl                                Educatin Maeials Unit
FIMNIDA                             Funnisl nternationd DJevelopmea Asncy
FNDP                                Fouth National Development Plan
ORZ                                 Goenmen of the Republic of Zambia
3BRD                                bumenaional Bank for Reconscdon and Developmnt
IDA                                 ltemado  Development Association
DM                                  Inernational Moneta  Fund
MOE                                 Mistry of Edceation
MOP                                 Minisy of Finance
MPU                                 Micro-Projec Unit
MWS                                 Minity of Works and Suppies
NESIS                               National Educaton S ais    Ioman Systm    NESCO Poject)
NIPA                                Natonal hntiue for Public Adminitron
NISbCOL                             National In -ervice Training College
NORAD                               Norwegian Agency for Internonal Devlopmen
ODA                                 (British) Overseas Developmet Agency
OPEC                                O nizon of Petroleum Expouig Cous
PrA                                 Pan Teachers' Asoiation
SAP                                 Social Acton Pgram
SHAPE                               SelfHelp Action Plan for Education
SIDA                                Sweh Internadonal Development Authoity
SRP                                 Socal Recovery Project
SRPU                                Soial Recovery Prqject Unit (also Social Recovery Fund)
TTCS                                TeacherTrining Collge
UNDP                                Unitd Nation Development Progtamme
UNESOO                              Uied Nation Educt, Scinific and Cul   Orgniui
UNICEF                              Unted Nations Childen's Fund
UNZA                                Univesity of Zambia
ZEMCC                               Zambia Educaton Materials Coordinaig Commite
ZeMP                                Zambia Education Mateials Project
ZEPH                                Zambia Ed           Publishing House
ZEPIU                               Zambia Educion Ptojects Impleenttion Unit



FOR OMCML USE ONLY
EDUCATION RERIABIL-ITATION r°
!CREDrr AND RC Sa MMAR
Borrmver                   Government of Zambia
leefidary                  Ministry of Education
Amount                     SDR 22.2 million (US$ 32 million equivalent)
Termki                     IDA Standard Terms with 40 years mauurity
Flnandnt En       Government          US$ 5.2 million
Communities         US$ 0.7 million
Co-Financiers       US$ 5.0 million
XDA                 US$32.0 million
TOTAL               US$42.8 million
-Stff A_ sS  RtM:          Report No. 10843-ZA
kbaa                       No. IBRD 11542 R
.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MBIORANDAM AND RECDIOMMAMIN OF   PEIIT
OE THE 2aRALN  DEVELPMENTASOIlQ
IY) THE E%EU IREUC:RS
ON A EROPOSE  CREDIT 10ZABI
FOR aNED25,CATIO REABHrT PROJEiCT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed credit to the Republic of Zambia for the equivaleL' of US$ 32 million (SDR 22.2
million) to help fmance an Education Rehabilitation Project. The proposed credit would be on
stndard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. Co-financing for this project is expected from
several donors.
2.     &algo : Economic decline in Zambia has been steep and prolonged as a result of
protract  decline in copper revenue, a deterioration in the terms of trade, a failure to develop a
dynamic and diversified economy, and high population growth rate of 3.2 percent per year. As a
result, per capita GDP declined by more than one third between 1974 and 1990.
3.    Several efforts to restructre the economy failed because of lower than anticipated copper
prices and Government ambivalence towards economic reform and also because Government
failed to sufficiently address the effects of adjustment on the poor. Recent political developments
have improved the climate for adjustment and put the country at a critical threshold to reverse the
economic decline and to repair the socio-economic fabric. Government has embarked on a
comprehensive adjustment program to restore macroeconomic stability, reduce poverty and
generate growth. Integral to this program is the improvement of the delivery of basic social
services..
4.    Public educational expenditures, which in the 1970s compared favorably with those of the
stronger economies in the region, fell sharply in the 1980s to become some of the lowest in the
world. Total education expenditures expressed as a proportion of GNP fell from an average of
6.5 percent inthe 1970s to 4.6 in 1985 and 2.5 in 1990. This decline was due to: (a) a faU in
the total fisca outlay because of falling revenues, aid (b) diversion of resources away from
education. Betwen 1985 and 1990, Government spending on education fell, in real terms, by
42.3 percent at the same time as expenditures on food subsidies increased by 52.7 percent. In
addition, sectoral policies exacerbated the decline. Allocation of the education budget to primary
education fell from 42.3 percent to 25.5 percent during this period, and the expenditure per
primary student declined from the equivalent of US$43 in 1980 to US$12 in 1989. State
dominamce in the provision of basic services undercut resource augmentation from the non-
government sector.
5.    Prolonged resource starvation has precipitated a crisis in primary education - a crisis of
access, of quality and of management Between 1985-1990, the primary school gross enrollment
ratio fell from 96 percent to 88 percent. Ihe decline was more severe in poor urban areas (where
one-third of seven-year-olds are unable to enroll in grade one because of shortages in classm
space) and in sparsely populad rural areas, where about 10 percent of those who completed
gade 4 failed to obtain grade 5 places. There is virtual gender equality of enrollments up to
grade 4, at which point girls have a marginally higher chance of dropping out in places where the
grade S botdeneck exists. Primy education quality indicators are poor. The average pupil to
textbook ratio is 5:1 in English, 8:1 in mathematics and 20:1 in social studies. Teaching and
writing matis are virtully non-existent. Multiple teaching shft, including triple and
quadruple shifts, have reduced pupil-teacher contact to less than three hours per day, while
sanitation facilities are so poor that every year schools are closed for long periods as a quraine



-2 -
measure because of cholera In the community. The sector has weak capacity to manage the fast-
expanig system: in one year, school inspectors are able to vistz less than 20 percent of primay
schools and about 12 percent of secondary scaools. In the last three years, grade 8 classes have
started more than 10 weeks late because examination processing delays have held up grade 8
selecdon.
6.        .e ObJe4e: The project would support Government in its efforts to reverse the
continued deterioration of the education system and to sustain education revitalization In a context
of severe fiscal austerity. Specific project objectives are to: (a) arrest futher decline in
education quality, starw  at the primay level; (b) increase access to education and improve the
learning environment; and (c) increase the capacity of the education sector to manage an
increasingly complex sector in a context of severely constrained resources.
7.        l               The project has three intefrelated components. The first focuses
on qual e renewal and would support the provision of learning and teaching materials and
improvements in examination quality and management. The second component consists of
rehabili         ction of physical facilities in primary schools, which would increase
access and improve the educatiL environment. The third is a      component which
would stren professional and administrative support to teachers and to schoois; establish an
information management system including a system for mainta g teachers' records; and
undertako a series of policy studies that are essential to planning further development of the
sector. Given the immense gap between the needed expenditures in the sector and the resources
available, the proposed interventions were selected on the basis of their catalytic impact on
education revitalization.
8.    Poe    lmg     ntffo: The project would be implemented by the Ministry of
Education under the overall guidance of a Project Steering Committee chaired by the Permanent
Sectawy of Education. Each component would be implemented by the responsible department in
the Ministry of Education, with logistical, procurement, accuntn and management support from
the exting donor-ported Zambia Education Project Implementation Unit under the Planning
Department of the Ministry. This unit has experience with implementing past Bank-group
supported projects and other donor projects and has efficiently managed the Project Preparation
Facflity for this Project. To ensure community participation and involvement of the Parent-
Teacher Associations, the Social Recovery Project Unit will manage the school rehabilitation and
expansion sb-component. This Project Unit has experience in similar works from
implementation of the IDA-supported Social Recovery Project. The capacity for imple ton
has been evaluated, and targeted technical assistmce and other institon-building efforts have
been included to enable successful implementation. All components of the project will be
implemented in close collaboration with existing donor and Government projects and would use
smilar impleaention procedures to the extent that they are acceptable to I1DA.
9.    Ired               r.: The project has several features to foster sustainability. Fist, an
increase in the budgetary share of education expenditures is a condition of both this project ard
the ongoing adjustment operation. Increased funding for education is more likely than in the past
because: (a) the revenue base of Government is broadened by the adjustment program; and (b)
Goverment is establishing a core expenditure program of which education is part. The project
entails a relatively small increase in recurrent budgetary cos0t: because classrooms, not teachers,
are the main bottieneck, new facilities do not entail significant increases in teacher costs. Second,
the project establishes a school maintenance fund, which is managed by the Parent Teacher
Association; community involvement is also expected to reduce vandalism  Thid, the project



-3-
implements a book development policy, maing the future supply of books less vulnerable to
balance of payment disruptions. Fourth, capacity will be built in ZEPIU, several Departments of
MOE, and In the ECZ to ensure the sustainability of institutional development efforts.
10.    .Ms  I4re from Previm  Bank/IDA Involnt Between 1969-1987 Bank
group support to education comprised four IBRD loans and one IDA credit amounting to US$79.7
millionL Implementation of these projects was ponderous and the impact weak because of the
unstable macro-econouic situation, wbich made it difficult to obtain countep  funds and the
achievement of Govermnent objectives impossible. Four important lessons drawn from the
difficult experiences of these projects are: (a) because of weak implementaion capacity, projects
need to be simple in design and not too broad in scope - this project takes this lesson into
account and focuses mainly on primary education; (b) a maintenance component as part of project
design is a valuable investment in physical inhrastructure projects - this project includes the
establishment of a school maintenance fund; (c) Government priorities need to be carefully
weighed against the macro-economic reality - this project incorporates inter- and intra-sectoral
expenditure switching policies and the improvement of policy planning and analysis; and (d)
donor coordination is an important strategy for improving project sustaibility - dowrs,
including the development agencies of Finland, the Netherlands, Swe4en, and the United
Kingdom, as well as UNESCO, UNICEF and WHO, have been closely involved in project
preparation.
11.    aoale fo IDA inalemmt: As the main lender for suctur reform in Zambia and
the main coordinator of donor support, IDA's involvement would: (a) ensure the sstainability of
tt i economic program through the strengthening of human capital and (b) assist in harnessing
donor support to the sector. Teachers comprise about 35 percent of the public service;
involvement in this project, therefore, would reinforce IDA involvement in Public Sector
Management Reform.
12. Feed Actions: As a condition of negotiations, the Government agreed to increase the
budget of the Miistry of Education to at least 15 percent of total Government expenditures by
1995 and has guaranteed that 40 percent of the education budget would go to prmary education.
It was also agreed that for the intervening years, the Ministry of Education would receive not less
than 13.8 percent of the total Government budget in 1993 and 14.4 percent of the same in 1994.
During negotiations, agreements on the following key actions were obtained: prior to
effectiveness, the Government will submit an affordable school building design acceptable to the
Government and IDA; by May 31, 1993, it will develop and adopt a strategy document for the
development of primary and secondary education acceptable to the Association; by September 30,
1995, it will furnish to IDA a draft plan to revise the management structure of the Ministry of
Education; and by Septmber 30, 1995, it will develop and establish a book development policy
for the provision and development of leaning matWeis.
13. Environenttl hnpact: The project finances school inputs and infrastucure
rehabilitation with minor effects on the environment. The project would also finance the
constuction of 20 new schools, for which sites have been set aside by the Government and the
supporting inastructure already put in place. The selection and appraisal criteria for inclusion of
schools to be rehabilitated includes environmental concerns. The project is rated category C.
14.     G:flc Inad.: Even though enrollment rates I we remained relatively constan
between the genders, girls have suffered disproportionately from the precipitous drop in access
and quality. As a result, the gender gap in access and learning achievements has widened. It is



-4 -
eXpeited that the impovements in access and quality that wouW be brought about by this project
would also have a greater effact on girls' eduction, with all the related benefits that this would
bring. The project addresses gender-specific concerns by (a) supporting improvemes in the
sanitary facilities to take into account the special needs of mature, adolescent girls; (b) geder
sensitivity training for education managers; and (c) itducing gender appraisal criteria in the
development of textbooks and the setting of examination questions. In addition, the project would
support a specific study on gender issues In education, the results of which would be used to
monitor gender-specific impact in this and related projects.
15.   Itv Dimens    The project would contribute to poverty alleviation in various ways.
The ce.atruction of new schools in lcxr-income, peri-urban areas of Lusaica, Kitwe and Ndola
would increase educational provision for children from poor families and would reduce the need
for such children to travel long distances in search of school admission. Since schools in poor
ura areas suffer more than those in better-off areas because of overcrowding, triple/quadruple
sessions, and closures due to the threat of cholera in the community, considerable benefits will
acuue to the poorer sectors by targetig extension and rehabilitation work for schools to these
areas. Providing educational materials, strengthening the administrative and professional
competence of school heads, and facilitating regular and meaningful iteractions between
Inpectors and schools have potentiU for effecting significant quality improvements in schools in
rural and poor urban areas. In addition, the project would reinforce ongoing effos to alleviate
poverty, particuLry through the employment possibilities for unskilled labor in poor urban
locations while scaool construction, rehabilitation or extension is underway. In a broader
pepective, the project would enhance human capital formation that contributes to economic
development and to a reduction in overall poverty levels.
16.   Iaoic Benefits: The benefits of the project would be long-ter  improvemens in
human capital through improved access to better quality education. The immediate beneficiaries
of the project would be about 1.5 million primary school pupils and about 5,000 education
managers. Learning achievements would be boosted through the provision of about 5.3 million
txtbooks, teachers' guides and basic teaching materials. The reduction of triple and quadruple
shifts and the reduction in class size through rehabilitation and construction of physical flities
would improve the leaning environment. Through gradual elimination of the bottlenecks at the
Examinations Council, delays in start-up of secondary school classes would be eliminated. The
examnation system would be streamlined and made appropriate for monitoring progress of both
individual schools and the global reform program. Management a, the individual school level
would be improved by training of head-teachers and education officers and strengthening of their
support system through improvements at the inspectorae. In addition, the project would: (a)
support the economic recovery process both because It would strengthen the human resource base
that would catalyze economic growth and because It is a powerfil socio-political instument for
maintaining popular support for the adjustment program; (b) provide inputs that would stem
further erosion of the sector and start a process of sectoral policy reform that would help the
sector become self-ustaining; and (c) strengthen local capacity for research and analysis through
the studies component.
17.     ojet Risk: There are two main risks associated with this project. The first is that
Govenmuent would allocate insufficient resources to primary education either because of a
deterioration in the macro-economic siuaion or because resources are divered to post- primay
education This risk is minimized by (a) the conditionality attached to the project; and (b) the
diversification of the revenue base of government in the course of adjustment. The second risk is
delayed project implementation due to weak implementation capacity. This risk is minimized by



-3 -
(a) management training for core implementation agencies; (b) targeted technical assistance for the
implementation of then; (c) the relative simplicity of the project; and (d) substatial donor
Involvement In the project, which would provide more broad-based implemention support.
18.   Recomdat0n: I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comrly with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington D.C.
September 29, 1992



-6 -
Amex
Country PoFeU and Bank Group's Assistance' St4rate
1.    Th'is s statemenan update of thestatementas  was presented to the Board on
September 8, 1992 (Repot No. IDA/R92-119) in the Agricultura Marketing and Processing
Infratuctre Project.
A. Xitor  Al bw d
2.   ITe Zambian economy faces major distortions which require structural adjustment if they
ae to be overoome. Falling world prices of copper and general deterioration in the trms of
tade, coupled with the faflure to diversify an economy dominated by inefficient parasts,
caused overal economic decline. Attempts to support a high level of consumption in spite of
poor economic pfomance through deficit-financing and borrowing failed to stinulate economic
growth and instead fueled inflation and created an exceptionally severe debt problem. Per capita
GDP is now more than athird below its 1975 level.
3.    After several unsuccessful efforts at economic reform in the late 1970s and early 1980s,
Zambia adopted a comprehensive adjustment program in 1985, with Bank and IMF support. The
program tan ino difficulties, in part because of poor fiscal and monetary control. in 1987 the
Govenmenlt abandoned the program and reversed many of the reforms undertaken In the previous
two yeas. The exchange rate was overvalued, administrative controls on foreign exchange and
imports were reintroduced, and some parastats were given privileges while others were
subjected to price conols. Ihe Govement also stopped most exter  debt service;
cnsequendy, the Bank suspended disbursements to Zambia in May 1987. Support from the
donor community was progressively withdrawn. The debt continued to grow, and the economy to
decline. After a hiatus of one year, the Government resumed a policy dialogue with the Bank and
IMP in late 1988. In June 1989, the Government abolished all price controls except mose on
maize, mealle meal, fertilizers, petroleum and public utilities. Subsequently, in mid-1989 the
Government agreed with the Bank and IMP on a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) outlining a
medium-term development strategy and objectives fot the period 1989-91. The PFP was followed
by an IMP-monitored program for 1990. A second PFP covering the period 1991-93 was
reviewed by the Committee of the Whole of the Board of Executive Directors in March 1991.
Arrears to the Bank were cleared and a new Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) of US$210 milion
was approved on March 5, 1991. Zambia began a rights accumulation program approved by the
IMP Board in April 1991.
4.    Implementaton of the agreed economic reforms began to slacken in the run-p to the
multiparty elecdons in 1991. The Government reintroduced price controls and public expenditure
got out of control as a result, inter alla, of increases in public sector pay and in maize and
fertilizer subsidies. Becase of the slippages, donor support for Zambia was delayed, arrears to
the Bank mounted and dibursements were again uspended in September 1991.
5.    In the October 1991 multiparty elections, the Movement for Multiparty Democrya
(MMD) was elected to office and given a strong mandate for a reform program that includes



-7-
moving to a full market economy and signiflcantly reducing the role of Govenment in productive
and commercial economic activities.
6.    Zambia faces three major constral i In ha ejbrts to break out of As past econowmc
fallures. Fist, the coutry has an exceptonally large debt burden. Total debt at ind-1991
amounted to US$6.7 billion, of which US$2.9 billion was multilateral, US$2.5 bilion bilateral,
US$0.6 billion medium/long-term commercia (including export credits) and US$0.7 billion short-
term. Excluding short-term debt, Zambia's eteral debt represents US$766 per head of
populaion, one of the highest anywhere. At the Paris Club meeting in July 1992, donors agreed
to generous reschedtuing of Zambia's official debt. In addition, a commercial debt buy-back
(with the support of the IDA Debt Reduction Facility) is planned for later in 1992. Alleviating
the debt burden was a prime focus of the March 1992 CG. These efforts, which are contiuing,
wM require substantial and concerted donor support. A rights azcumulation program was
approved by the IMF on July 17, 1992, amounting to $1.2 billion over a tre-year period.
7.    The second major constraint is the heavy dependence on copper. Copper accouts for
nearly 85 percen of the country's exports, contributes about 15 percent of GDP, and Is an
lmportat source of revenue. The problem is worsened by the poor prospects for copper prices
and a projected shari decline in copper output around the end of this decade. IDA is providing
direct support to improve the efficiency, profitability and longer-term outlook of copper
proucdon in Zambia through the Mining Technical Assistance Credit.
8.    The third major constraint is the dominncf the pratatal sector, the consequent
stifling of competition and initiative, and the imposition of high prices and low quality in the
domest industrial sub-sectors where parastatals have an effective monopoly. The m
parastaas have not kept up with product developments elsewhere. The tourism secor has
exploited only a fraction of the potential market. The gemstone parastal has exploited a
negligible portion of Zambia's rotenial, with most exports avoiding official channels such that the
earns have been placed directly into foreign bank accounts. With a few exceptions, parastatals
have been inward-looking, and content to rely on the small Zambian market; they have generaly
faled to diversify the economy or to develop fully Zambia's natural advantages. In the public
utility sector, the position is no better: the railways are extremely slow and unreliable, the power
company has been unable to maintain a sufficiently steady voltage for the operation of sensitive
industrial plants, and telecommrunications service is substandard in areas important to business.
To help the Government privatize parastals, IDA has provided a credit of US$200 million under
the Privatzation and Industrial Reform operation.
B. 1a SmonIj and St1rutural Policies and Stat
9.    The short-term priority is to reduce inflation by eliminating the Government's budget
deficit, restainng borrowing, curbing monetary expansion and achieving a balance of payments
equilibrium, while contnuing to address the underlying structural issues. The mediumterm
strategy calls for providing a less intusive and more supportive private invesment regulatory
framework, together with appropriate financial incentives to encourage signifcant strengthening of
physical and social infrastructure; increased atention to social and poverty issues; implementation
of environmental policies; and a renewed effbrt at enhancing the efficiency of public institutions.
10.   The Governent's stabilization policies for 1992-94 are set out in the Policy Framework
Pae (PFP) considered by the Committee of the Whol 5 on March 17, 1992. The program
objective set out in the PFP (pre-drought) was to achieve real GDP growth rates of 2 prcet in



1992, 3 percent in 1993 and 4 p3rceint n 1994, implying a positive real per capita growth by the
end of the 1992-94 PFP peilod. As a result of the drought, 1992 GDP is estimated to decline by
9 percent. With norma rains, the 1993 GDP should rebound to near the original target. Gross
investment is planned to grow to nearly 20 percent of GDP in 1994, more In line with the
experience of the 1980s. The rise in private investment wlll be facilitated by a fiscal policy
designed to increase public savings by shifting financial resources to the private sector, and a
monetary policy seeking to attract savings through a positive interest rate policy. Controls on
interest rates were abolished as of September 1992. The most daunting task is to lower inflation
from the over 100 percent rates of the past few years.
11.   The stabilization plan is to achieve a primary budget deficit (excluding grants) of no more
than 2 percent of GDP in 1992, full balance in 1993 and a small surplus in 1994. The original
target of inflation for 1992 based on these flscal results was 45 percent, but the rate of monetary
expansion in late 1991 turned out to be muc h'gher than expected, leading to continued high
inflation in the first quarter of 1992 despite good fiscal resuts. It is still hoped that the rate of
inflation will be reduced to 2 percent per month by the end of 1992, but the rate for the year will
once again be over 100 percent. The most Woran of the fiscal measures are the rapid
elbulnadon of the prinial subsidies (on maize, fertUizer and parasta  deficits), repriorWitzng
public ependus, enhancing revenues by broadening the tax bUse and reducing loopholes
(while lowering tax rates), and civU service re,finn to create a smaller but more efficient, better-
paid and motivated staff. Civil service pay is to be conrolled by maintning aggegate
emoluments at a constant proportion of GDP, with any extra pay raises being offset by savings
from redundancies. The Government's success in implementing these measures will constitute the
key indicator of its determination to achieve economic recovery and sustainable growth.
12.   Revn  Msu: The Government's revenue strategy is to simplify and reduce direct
taaion and simplify indirect taxation, while lowering protection and encouraging exports.
Overall revenues will be increased, mainly by removing tax loopholes and by higher dividends
from pastats.
13. The Government has already made a major start on tax reform. Progress on indirect
taxes has been good. In the 1991 budget, most imported goods were brought into three tariff
bands at 15 percent, 30 percent and 50 percent, with a few exceptions such as food and fertilizer
at zero tax, and minor luxury goods at 100 percent. Trade distortions were reduced, and
Goverimt revenues enhanced, in the 1992 budget by harmonizing the sales taxes at a uniform
rate of 20 percent on both imported and domestically produced goods. Petroleum currenty is
imported tax-free, but there is no local oil production and the minimum excise tax on petroleum is
15 percent. In relation to the 1993 budget, the Government's program s to lower fiuther the
highest tariff band so as to reduce protection, but to do this in conjunction with smoother
operation of the Open General License (OGL) system, and only after the impact on business and
employment has been well-studied. Government plans to raise new revenues from the
introduction of a value added tax and mandatory dividends from parastatals.
14. In addition to the above, Government has cut the basic company tax rate from 45 percent
to 40 percent, beginning April 1, 1992, offsetting this by phasing out non-cash fringe benefis as
deductible business expenses, and is undertaking a detailed examination of the strucre of
company tax with a view to implemening further reforms in 1993 or 1994. Personal income taxes
were also reformed in the 1992 budget, the main emphasis being a widening of the tax net to tax
cash frige benefits, (such as housing allowance) to offset a reduction in tax rates and an increase
in the tax threshold.



-9 -
15.   E _b: The expendiure reduction plan Includes reform of the public and
parastatal sectors, increased devolutlon of authority to local governments, better coordination and
control of commitments and expenditues, reprioritization of expenditwre especially in favor of the
soci sectors, and phased eliminaion of subsidies. The major reductions In spending will be in
crop financing and subsidies. The change in crop financing is primarily a resut of the greater
privat sector role in maize purchasing and marketing. The reduction in subsidies comes from
maize transport, fertilizer, and maize meal.
16.   The Zambian pub23 did not generally benefit from the previous Government's maize
subsidies as intermediaries bought up the stocks and many families had to buy at parallel nmarket
prices. The new Goverment moved fast to correct this situation by a speedy cu In maize
sbes  balaned by a stronger s4fety net to cushion the Iyact on the most vulnerable. In little
more an a month after taing office, subsidy cuts resulted in price increases for roller meal by
103 percent and breakfat meal by 165 percent. Further increases were made three months later.
Consequently, within its first four months in office, Government had eliminated the subsidy on
breakfast meal (the more refined product) and reduced the subsidy on roller meal (the less
refined, and hence more nutritious, product) to about 30 percent. Government removed the
remaining subsidies on roller meal during May, and all into-mill subsidies on domeeic production
have now been removed. As a response to the drought, Govenment pays the cost of transport,
handling and storage for locally produced maize to ease the transition to the new higher prices.
The phase-in to the higher prices will be achieved by May 1993 such that the into-mill cost will
be at about the level that would have applied in a non-drought situation. This will then be an
appropriate base point for the 1993 crop. In addition, there will be a program of limitd
quanities of half price and free yellow maize to be channelled to the poor (including subsistence
farmers severely affected by the drought) through local groups supported by the World Food
Prom and NCOOs, and additionally a 15 percent subsidy on yellow maize supplied to
:_mmermils, to encourage consumption of the more nutritious straight-run mealis meal. These
poverty-focussed subsidies will be phased out by mid-1993. Subsidy reduction Is a particulariy
vible measur of Government resolve for economic reform, and becomes a key indicator of
progress. Price controls and subsidies in the fertilizer sector were eliminated in March 1992.
17.   Government has already announced a shift in expenditure priorites such that more money
will be spent on non-wage recurrent expenditures in areas such as equipment and buildiog
maintenance. Further, a realistic Public Inver-nent Program (PIP) for 1992-94 has been adopted,
and expenditure outside of the PIP will not be authorized save in exceptional circumsances.
18.   M       l=-landInterest Rate Polici: The Bank of Zambia established a target for
broad money growth of 25 percen for 1992. ITis was lower than the original year-on-year
inflation objective (45 percent) since it is anticipated at it will take some time for inflation to
decelerae as monetary policy is tightened. In addition to monetary restraint, Government has
incrsed the mimum effective inrest rates charged to borrowers in Janiwry to about 70
percent, which was equal to the Inflaton rate targeted for the end of the fist quart of 1992. All
ihre rates were decontrolled in september. To encourage savings, effos will also continue to
be directed at raising bank deposit rates relative to lending rates, particularly through reducing the
proportion of non-interest bearing deposits placed with the Bank of Zambia. A limitted amount of
debt-equity swaps will be permitted at conversion rates prescribed by the Bank of Zambia.
19.              t 8     :   The centerpiece of the strategy iw  r:mdg non o
ewpot by 1045 percent a year over the next decade is r eachange rate poliy that aligns the
value of the Kwacha closely to the parallel market rate, such that the efficient allocation of



- 10-
foreign exchange is promoted, and to give added incentive to exporters through a liberalized
exwrt retention scheme. To that end the Kwacha was devalued by 30 percent on February 1,
1992. The Government's plan is to adjust the official exchange rate in Installments to a level that
will permit the OGL system to be shifted to a negative list and steadily broaden the coverage of
the OGL. Government has arnounced complementary reforms to encourage exports through an
improved duty drawback scheme and further development of bonded warehouses. Continued
development of the OGL system is a key test of progress in Zambia's macroeconomic reforms.
20.    oA1M         Delopmenl Strat    and Issm: The Government's strotegy to
restore long-term growth calls for the creation of an enabling environment conducive to the
growth of the private sector, so that it can provide most goods and services, and to limit
Government's role in the economy to the provision of essential services. Government regards the
most important of these to be the development of the basic physical infrastructure and of Zambia's
human resources, the provision of social services (and of a soci safety net) and the
implementation of appropriate environmental policies. Government is also aware that for this
stateM  to succeed It needs to deal quicldy with the overwhelming debt situation.
21.    ate Seto DeveJo pment and Public Sector Reform: Government is embarking on a
maorprdvatizatonprogram and seeking to make the public utlities more efficient, and to
intrduce further reforms in incentives and in the legal and regulatory framework, with a view to
developng of a strongprvate sector. TheIprivatk4tonprogram aims to put all new copper
developments under the control of private investors, to reform ZCCM, and to privatize all other
commercially-oriented parastatals, except for the public utilities, (140 companIes to be divested
out of 155 parasttals), over a period of five years. The parastatal refonn program will involve a
reassessment of the management, staffing, policies and finances of the public utlities, efL-.ncy
measures and establishment of performance targets, and instittion of an incentivebaed
regulatory system. lvil Service Reform is also an important element ia Government's plans for a
more efficient but smaller public sector. The reonn program includes improvements to the
incentives offered in the 1991 Investment Act, and simplification of procedures. It continues the
streamlined import and export licensing system, now operated quite efficiendy tdrough the
commercial banks, and an exchange rate policy that will move to a small negative list system by
end-1992; and enhanced competitiveness through further cutting of import tariffs. Government is
also starting a coapehenstve review of business-related laws that are out-of-date; a prioritized
action plan has been drawn up to make early amnmes of Acts that affect the privatization
process (incliding laws regulating the banking system and capitl markets), and to deal with al
other business-related legislative modernization over a five-year period.
22.   lhyal InEastum: The Government hitends to put renewed emphasis on a better
road system to ensure that crops can be brought to market quicldy, on a more reliable freight-rail
system, and on a better quality telecommunications system that is seen as essental for the
development of an outward-oriented and efficient productiva sector.
23.   Human Resource           The centerpiece of the human resource strategy is the
rehabilitaton and sustainable expansion of d 9 education and health sectors. These sectors have
borne the brunt of the deterioration in fiscal performance in the past, and the country is faced
with a dilapidated and under-funded soclai infrastructure.
24.   In educaton the new strategy means a sharper focus on improvements in primary
educadon, with a special emphasis on the provision of much-needed infrastucte, rehabiitation
of existng schools, improvement of management capacity and supply of learning materals. The



- It -
Govenment has sought, with success, donor support for this. Other acivities in educadon are
geared towards ensuring the necessary supply of skilled manpower for the development needs of
Zambia, focusing on key skills relevant for private sector development.
25.   In health the Goveroment is re-emphasizing service delivery and is in the process of
decentralizing health services to ensure community participation and good governance in the
sector. The Government is working with key donor agencies finalize a health sector strategy and
management set-up to meet the new challenge of a decentralized system of health delivery. A key
area of emphasis is the prevention of AIDS and support for family-based care of AIDS patients.
With prevalence of HIV as high as 20 percent in urban areas, the treatment of opportnistic
infections and support for home-based care is important to limit the otherwise devastating effects
the AIDS epidemic could have on the human resource base and the economy. In nutrition the
Government is working towards streamlining management of national programs and further
encouraging the development of local initiatives.
26. The Government is aware of the key role women could play in poverty alleviation and
growth of the economy and is focussing social service de!lvery, particularly education and
primary health care, on women. Government is also working towards removing obstacles for
women's participation in the labor force, and in their access to credit, and is looking to relieving
the all-important time-constraint on poor women in Zambia.
27.                et  Govermment is taking stWs to alleviate the impact of the drought and
of the economic adjustment program on the poor and disadvantaged. Specifically Government
will: (i) implement a transitional subsidy on imported yellow maize to cushion the price impact
of the drought; vii) channel special assistance through local groups supported by the World Food
Program and NGOs to ensure that drought-stricken families can feed themselves and have the
seed for next year. Further, Government will assist poorer families for one year only through a
small (15 percent) subsidy on maize supplied to hammermills, in an effort to encourage use of
straigbt-run maize because of its greater efficiency and nutritional value. In addition, Govement
has (iii) allocated savigs from subsidy removal to expand social welfare program implemented
rough the Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare; (iv) iS expanding small-
scale labor-intensive public works (supported by IDA and other donors) and convertng some of
those to paid-work instead of self-help; and (v) is increasing the share of the national budget
allocated to basic social services, with emphasis on primary education and health care and other
services of particular importance to the low-income population. Specific interim targets have been
set for the above. Particular attenion will be paid to rural infrastructure. A program of
severance pay and business counselling will be offered to those made redundant through the
retrenchment program. For the medium-term the various measures to sfimulate small-scle
industry will provide income-eaning opportunities in both urban and rural areas.
28.    Enhn          Slrs: Zambia has a keen interest in preservlng and improving the
physical environment, and there is common acceptance in Government of the priority this
deserves. The main issues are first, some deforestation, particularly along the line of rail, caused
by land clearance, over-ctting of fuelwood, overgrazing and buring. In these same areas this
leads to soil erosion, a problem made worse by the high natral erodibility of Zambia's soil.
Second, there is a local pollution problem from the mines and factories, particularly affecting
parts of the Copperbelt and areas adjacent to industrial operations. Although not widespread or
affecing large numbers, such pollution has to be reduced. More pervasively, the poor control of
agricultural chemicals and inadequate treatment of hulman and industrl waste has an obvious
impact on water supplies and health. Cholera is a serious issue. And third, in relation to



- 12 -
wildlife, poaching is rampant, and elehant and rhino are found in mbers only in a few
locations.
29.   The National Strategy for Coevation was prepared in 1986 and provides the basis for
policy and institutional framework and udelines for Improved management of environmental
issues in the country. It seeks to define and establish policies, plans, organization and action to
ensure the sustainability of the natural resource, and to maintain biological diverity and the
esse  ecological processes and life support systems. Specific plans and guidelines bave been
drawn up for all sectors, in conjunction with the Intnational Union for Consevation of Nature
and Natur Resources. There has been progress in some areas, yet in others, particularly
woodfuel cuWtting, it has not yet been possible to achieve measurable success.
30.   The new Government has reafirmed its concern for eniroment issues through the
establishment of a Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and National Environment
Council (NEC). A new national enviromnental action plan Is in the early stages of preparation,
but because of the need for proper quantification of the copper mining and industial pollution
issues, and the preparation of the natural resources strategy, it is not due for completion until
1995.
31.   External Ca"ital Reremets - The Debt Issue: Zambias external debts are
enormous in relation to GNP, and cannot be serviced from Zambia's own export earnings. The
limited foreign exchange available in recent years for copper investment has led to declining
outpu, and for 1992 (even excluding drought-related imports) the trade balance is expected to be
negadve. When taken together with net no-factor services and other payments, the current
account deficit, excluding interest payments and official transfers, is estimated at US$287 million;
t rises to US$587 million when the extra costs of the drought are included. Debt service
obligations amount to US$503 million for non-multilaterats and US$260 million for multilaterals,
and targeted arrears reduction is US$294 million. Thus, excluding any change in its official
reserves, Zambia faces a gross financing requirement of US$1644 million, including the drought
needs.
32.   While Zambia is putting high priority on a rapid growth in exports to move toward a
better external balance, for as long as the debt overhang persists the aernat financial picture will
be difficult. The main areas for expected improvement are a modest reduction each year in the
current account deficit and steady reductions in debt service obligations.
33.   Closing the external financial gap has been one of the more difficult aspects of the
Zambia economic recovery program, due in part to the heavy debt service requirement.
Rescheduling and donor support have been generous when policies were good, but the large
amounts required, coupled with the on-again/off-again policy performance have resulted in a very
thin margin of exernal finance. This problem has been made more difficult in 1992 by the
requirements of the drought, esimated at US$300 million in 1992. After the March Consultative
Group meeting a financing gap of US$330 million remained. Since that time, the AV agreed to
reduce payments due by US$12 million and to defer payments by US$88 million; the Paris Club
agreed to a more generous rescheduling than assured at the CG; and several donors have
increased their aid commitments, particularly for food aid. As a result, the external financing gap
wiUl be closed for 1992 provided all of the donor pledges result in 1992 disbursements.



-13 -
C. Rseit Ruo&*
34.   Overall economic performance under the 1991 program was poor. Policies went
substantially off track in the second half of the year under the previous Government, especially In
the run-up to the October 1991 elecdons. While some progress was made in the implementation
of strucr refom, particularly with respect to trade and the exchange rate, slippages ocrred
on the macroeconomic stabilization measures. Real GDP declined by 2 percent, mainly reflecting
a sharp fall In copper and maufcing output. Becuse of the drought, GDP is expected to
decline by a firther 9 percent in 1992. Inflation declined to an annual rate of 46 percent in the
third quarter of 1991, but rose sharply to reach 111 percent for the year as a whole, compared
with a program target of 40 percent.
35.   The overall budget deficit swelled to 7.1 percent of GDP, compared with the program
target of 4.0 percent of GDP. Major weaknesses were evident in boh -the tax and expenditure
areas. The decision to tax cash allowances and fringe benefits was withdrawn for a second time,
and mining income tax payments fell short of projections. Mealie meal subsidies rose sharply
when consumer prices were not adjusted after a tripling of producer prices, and substantial
budgetary funds had to be lent to the agricultural cooperatives to purchase maize. FinaUy, large
pay awards were granted to the public sector.
36.   The external current account recorded a deficit of US$93 million (2.5 percent of GDP),
slightly below the program target of US$101 million, largely because of a compression of imports
in the second half of the year when most donor support was suspended. With favorable copper
prices, copper export revenues were US$25 million above the programmed level, but these were
more than offiet by a 26 percent decline from 1990 in the surrender of foreign exchange earnigs
from nontaditional exports in anicipation of exchange rate movements. Gross foreign reserves
declined slightty in 1991, with uncommitted reserves virtually exhausted; at end-1991, Zambia's
arrears to the IF exceeded program levels by SDR 85 million, arrears to the Bank reached $40
million, and arrears had also arisen to other multilateral creditors (about US$70 million) and to
Paris Club creditors (about US$30 million).
37.   Prgess conned in the liberalization of the exchange and trade system. The open
general license (OGL) system was expanded; the first and second window exchange rates were
unified well ahead of schedule; and the number of controlled or prohibited exports was reduced
from 48 to 4. Throughout 1991, adjustments in the official exchange rate were sufficient to
generate a gradual depreciation in the real effective exchange rate. However, these gains in
international competitiveness were eroded toward the end of the year as inflation accelerated.
38.   The new Government moved quickly to implement its econmic reform program. In its
fist seven months in office the Govenment, put in place a number of fundamental and politically
difficult policy reforms aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability and transforming Zambia into
a market economy. In a move to cut subsidies, maize meal prices were increased by more than
165 percent in December 1991. This and subsequent adjustaent in the fist half of 1992 resulted
in a fivefold increase in the consumer price of maize meal. In early Jamnuy 1992, domestic
prices for petroleum products, which had been frozen since late 1990, were raised to cover costs
plus excise duty. The 1992 budget, introduced on January 31, 1992, aimed at largely reversing
the fiscal sippages of 1991. The overall deficit was to be reduced from 7.1 percent of GDP to a
surplus of 0.3 percent in 1992, with the prinary deficit (excluding grants and interest) to be cut
by 6 percentage points to less than 2 percent of GDP. If the target of the overall deficit is
achieved, there will be no need for recourse to inflationary borrowing from the domestdc banking



- 14-
system  Key budgetary acos  included: (i) a reduction in maize- and fertiz-rlated
expenditurefrom 6.0 peent of GDP in 1991 to 2.7 percent of GDP in 1992 as the result of
action on maize meal pricing, elimination of fertlizer subsidies, and a reduced need to finance
cooperatives, becue of increased agricultural liberalizadon; and (i) a fundamental reform of
personal income tax, including bringing cash allowances and fringe benefits fully within the tax
net whfle cutting tax rates - the top marginal tax rate was lowered from 50 percent to 35 percent,
and the former personal allowance was replaced by a tax credit sufficient to remove a large
number of low-income taxpayers from the tax roll.
39.   The official exchange rate was devalued by 30 percent on February 1, and was
subsequeny adjusted at weekly intervals beginning in early March. In mid-March the
Government increased the share of foreign exchange earnings from exports of goods and services
that exporters could retan for their own use or sell in the export retention market at a freely
determined exchange rate from 50 percent to 100 percent. At the same time, the Bank of Zambia
ceased to provide official foreign exchange for a range of transactions, primarily services, and
shifted them to the retention market. In the weeks following this change, the exchange rate in the
retention market dpnrciated rapidly and the spread between the official and the retention rates
widened from 20 percent to 30 percent. During the second quarter of 1992 the authorities
continued the policy of frequent sma1l devaluations of the official exchange rate, increasing the
pace of devaluation after June. On June 19, a number of steps were taken to liberalize
quani  ve limits and administrative sequirements on transactions in the retention market,
including eliminating the requirement of prior Bank of Zambia approval of the provision of
foreign exchange for small transactions and for business travel, and pemitting non-govermnental
organizations and foreign investors to sell the foreign exchange they bring into the country in the
retention market.
40.   While money and credit developments were broadly on track, the consumer price index
rose by 50 percent in the first quarter (an average monthly rate of about 15 percent). This
adverse development reflected the confluence of the inflationary momentum carried over from late
1991, the administered and parastal price adjustments, and the February I devaluation.
41.   Difficulties were encountered in the implementation of financial policies in the second
quarter of 1992. Available information indicates that fiscal performance slipped significandy,
primarily as a result of a very sizable increase in wages. Effective April 1, a pay award ta
resulted in an increase of 130 percent in the wage bill was graned to the civil sevice. The
program had been based on an increase in civil service pay and benefits of 50 percent as from
July 1. This increase was expected to raise the wage bill to K 7 billion (1.3 percent of GDP)
more than the PFP level, although the net increase was esmated at K 5 billion, in view of the
broader tax base following the income tax reform. The Govermment is, therefore, estimated to
require net recourse to the domestic banking system of K 6 billion in the second quarter, after a
net repayment of K 5 billion in the first quarter. Inflation decelerated to about 6 percent a month
in April and May and to 2 percent a month in June and July.
42.   The picture on fiscal performance is mixed. Performance in the first quarter of 1992 was
good, but deteriorated in the second quater, it was not so good. The wage increase turned out to
be 130 percent instead of the 70 percent provided for. Government agreed measures with the
IMP in June, but expenditures in the second quarter will still be significanty higher than in the
program budget. On September 11, the Government decided to remove anomalies from the civil
service pay structure effective October 1. The total cost of the package is estimated at K 900
million. However, third quarter revenues are runmning well above program levels. The situation



- 15 -
is under discussion between the Government and the IW and a joint Bank/IMF mission is
scheduled to visit Zambia in October to review the mater further with a view to agreeing on
measures to mitigate the impact of the package on the budget.
43.   In terms of the social safety-net programs, some progress has been made: (i) the Public
Assistance and Welfare Program is now disbursing funds and providing food and other items in
kind to the absolute poor; (ii) District Social Welfare Committees have been established in each
district, composed primarily of NGOs, to implement the program; (iii) the Microprojects Unit and
the Bank-supported Social Recovery Fund operations have been expanded considerably; and (v)
there are encouraging signs that increased attention will be given to promoting and supporting the
Informal sector.
44.   Nevertheless, despite the Bank raising the importance of these actions repeatedly at the
Ministerial and Vice-Presidental level, slow progress is still cause for concern, particularly: (i)
there is not institutional home for coordination and formulation of a poverty alleviation strategy;
(ii) the Public Assistance and Welfare Program is not fimctioning well; (idi) aid money has not
been disbursed; (iv) counselling and retraining services have not yet been established for those
retrenched through privatization and civil service reform; (v) there is an urgent need to integrate
social policy concerns more fully into the formulation of economic policy; and (vi) Government
funds for labor-intensive public works have not been forthcoming.
45.   In terms of coping with the catastrophic drought, Zambia is doing reladvely well. It has
now secured its maize import needs of a million tons. The Government's energy in tackling the
problems has been impressive, and key donors have done an admirable job, both in making
pledges and in helping build up the logistics planning system. NGOs are now fully mobilized for
the distribution of food through food-for-work and sale in the drought-affected areas in the
Southern half of the country. Overall, domestic marketed food supply is significanty higher than
earlier estmates, and less maize has flowed out of Zambia than anticipated. Despite this good
progress, several critical areas remain:
(a) the intermal distribution system is still fragile in some areas;
(b) increased attention needs to be given to water supply, which is now the primary problem in
many areas; and
(c) the Government needs to get the drought recovery program into full gear with the
procurement and distribution of fertilizer; the provision of adequate iWput credit is an extremely
high priority.



- 16-
-ANK GR- AS-IffCE
D. Bank QWeh etdvefi and ani  e Sbatga
46.   Zambia has to design, finance, and implement its adjustment program under particularly
difficult conditions. First and foremost is the very high external debt (including to the Bank and
Fund) which would result In debt service ratios near 70 percent in the absence of rescheduling.
Even with extraordinary levels of rescheduling and direct support from the donors and multilateral
institions such as the Bak, import levels are highly constrained and reserve levels at the bare
minimum. Dealing with the debt issue over the medium term is, therefore, a key focus of the
Zamblan authorities and of the Bank program of assistance. The precariousness of the extenal
financing situation also takes up much of the attention of senior officials in the Governmen and
the Bank. This problem Is even more serious this year because of the drought. Another major
difficulty is the on-againloff-again history of the Zambia program (and hence of the Bank
program of support) which has created difficulties both in program design and implementation.
The Bank's emphasis in recent years has been on the extraordinary financial measures needed to
clear the arrears and restart the program (twice) and to reach an understanding on some basic
macroeconomic policy issues. As a result, the Bank has strted with a low klowledge base in
many areas, and the Government has not had sustained donor support in many sectors. This
onstrains both program design and implementation; it also results in an emphasis on technical
assistance and a particular need to focus Bank support on a relatively small number of high-
priority areas. In some sectors, enough is known to get strted on priority issues while launching
some broader sectoral studies. In other areas, direct Bank support would not be prudent until
after the proper sector work has been done.
47.   The Bank strategy is to cont4iue to play a leading role in assistng the Government to
desig and implement the adjustment program, to place the economy on a sustainable growth
path, and to mobilize the necessary financial resources. This will be accomplished through
continued policy dialogue, economic and sector work, adjustment and investment lending
operations, and effective aid coordination. The sategy aims to support structural adjustment,
while creadng a climate conducive to povery alleviation through sustainable economic growth and
the provision of a safety-net to protect vulnerable groups from the adverse impact of adjustment.
The stategy implies substantial balance of payments support to help Zambia redress
macroeconomic imbalances in the economy, and to reduce its overwhelming debt burden to
minageable proportions. To this end, the Bank plans to lend for at least one adjustment operation
for each of the next four calendar years. The primary emphasis of the operations will altenate
between macroeconomic adjustment and sector adjustment. Each year, the Bank witl assess
achievements under the ongoing adjustment operation to determine the priority measures to be
carried out under the successive opertions. Thus, in the earlier years, Bank assistance will be
primaily in the form of balance of payments support, supplemented by investment operations in
the priority sectors. As identified by the Government, these are agriculture, industry, transport
and social services. In addition, it is envisaged that IDA would assist Zambia more directy,
including through the Debt Reduction Facility, to reduce Its debt burden to a more manageable
level.
48.   The main elements of the Bank's strategy are to support efforts to:
-     achieve macroeconomic stability and initiate a path of sustainable and equitable
growth through eliminaion of the budget deficit, attaiment of a competitive



- 17 -
exchange rate, and increasing the allocation of resources to economic and social
sectors by restructuring the composition of public expenditure;
ensure sufficient access to import, and an adequate reserve cushion, drough
maintenance of an appropriate exchange rate and other measures to encourage
exports md to use imports wisely, and through coordination of donor assistamce
and efforts to secure ne. led debt elimination and rescheduling;
-     improve the climate for pdvate sector development through deregulation,
provision of infrastructre and privatization of parastatals;
-     strengthen human resource capacity by rehabilitating the education and health
infrastructures and improving the quality of education and health services; and
-     implement an effective environmental statey.
49.   In the context of this strategy the Bank is providing support to mitigate the efects of this
year's drought. Thus the allocation for the Privaization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC) was
increased to US$200 million and existing and new operations were reviewed to determine if they
could provide funding for drought-related activities. Ihe Bank is also actively soliciting donor
support for Zambia.
50.   The aleviaion ofpovety is central to the Bank's strategy and program in Zambia.
While the most powerful weapon against poverty in the long run will be sustainable and equitable
economic growth, a number of other considerations will play a vital role in combatting poverty.
One is the re-orientation of public spending to meet the basic human needs of the poor,
particularly in the areas of primary education, primary health care, and clean water and
sanitation. Another is degulation of the economy to reduce the prolifration of rents going to
the relatively advantaged and to open up opportunities for small businesses and small farmers.
The availability of credit to all levels, and without gender discrminti, is a vital part of this
strategy of increasing opportunities. Similarly, a labor maket free of special privileges and
barriers to entry will be important if growth is to be as labor-intensive as possible. Finally, a
social safety-net will be important to protect those least able to protect themselves from the
disruptions likely to accompany this program, particularly the sharp increases in the prices of vita
commodities and the retrenchment of employees in the public and parastatal sectors.
51.   Women already play a vital role tn the Zambian economy not only as primary caretakers
of the famly but also as direct laborers at the farm level and, increasingly, in formal sector
employment. To reach high levels of equitable and susainable growth, however, the barriers to
full participation that stil exist for women will have to be addressed urgently. Many elements of
the Bank's lending and ESW program will be directed at this issue, most particularly the
progms in educaion, health, credit, and deregulation. The Agricultural Marketing and
Processing Infrastructure Project includes specific requirements to ensure that women have equal
access to credit facilities. In fact the majority of beneficiaries of the credit component are
expected to be women.
52.   The donor community is giving strong su#ppor to Government's actons to protect die
envirtonment. IDA is providing assistance in particular to deal with industrial pollution in Kafue,
to improved agricultural practices, and (through ESMAP) to reduce the impact of fuelwood
cuing. The major local company, NCZ (a frtilizer manufcturer and a recipient of past IDA



- 18-
fhnds), has brought all the local facories together to draw up an inegrt  action plan for
ensuring that the industrial wast water is treated before it reaches the river. This plan is
awaiting donor finance (US$1-2 m). A review of mining pollution issues is included in the IDA
work program. Donors are placing special emphasis on water quality. Support fbr the widlie
conservation program is planned in the IDA work program, but it is also expected to get renewed
emphasis as Government actively promotes the country's tourism potential.
E. Lndlng Prog     and Economie and Sedor Work
53.   Zambia's withdrawal rights under Bank loans and IDA credits were suspended between
May 1, 1987 and March 1991 on account of accumulated arrears. The Economic Recovery
Credit, approved by the Board in March 1991, marked the resumption of normal Bank operations
in Zambia. Relations were interrupted again in September 1991 when disbursements were
suspended because of arrears. The suspension was lifted at the end of January 1992 and normal
operations resumed again. These interruptions account, in part, for the relatively low volume of
lending during the period 1985-1991. Schedule I) details the Bank's lending program during the
period 1984-92. In March 1991, IDA provided the second economic recovery credit of US$210
million to Zambia, which was disbursed in two tranches. Since 1984, IDA committed a total of
US$861.3 million to Zambia fi't adjustment operations and investment projects. The credits
supported the Government's economic recovery and adjustment program, agriculual
development, rehabilitation of infrastructure, strengthening of institutional capacity, and
establishing a social recovery fund.
54.   A recent dialogue between Bank staff and Govenment representaives culminated in an
agreed approach to priority sectors for Bank assistance. These include agriculture, industry,
minig, transport, and social services. Assistance in these sectors would complement balance of
payments support. The Goverament's goal is to generate rapid economic growth, with equit,
through increased investment in the productive sectors and human resources and infastu
development. A high rate of economic growth is essena   for poverty reduction, and for the
development of human resources and infiatucture, as well as for progress in income
distribution. Ilvestments in productive sectors, and for human resources and infrastrucure
development, would be supported by effrts to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the public
sector so as to promote pnivate sector development.
55.   Over the next four years, the Bank's lending and economic and sector work (ESW)
programs will constitute the main vehicles for implementng the strategy described above. Among
the areas covered by ESW are agriculture, mining, public expenditure, education, public sector
management, environment, populaion, health and mntrition, gender issues, natura resources, and
filizer distribuion. A poverty assessment is planned to be completed in FY94. It will be
preceded by an analysis of data gathered under work initiated in FY92 for the preparation of the
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), to be issued in early 1993, which will have the
alleviation of poverty as a central focus. These activities will culminate in the formuation of a
strategy for Bank assistance toward poverty reduction in Zambia. Three major activities dealing
with the environment are included in the ESW program for the next three years. Within the
agiculture sector program a natl resources study is to be carried out in FY93. It will be
supplemented by studies on the environmental impact of mining operations and an overall
environmental strateg study in FY94. The Bank ESW program also includes a A*y on woisen
in dbvelopment, scheduled to be completed in FY94, which should broaden the Bank's
undersding of these issues and help in developing a more comprehensive picture of the
problems women face and the steps that must be taken. The results of the study, together with



- 19-
lessons learned from the various other related studies and operations, will be used in
strengthening the Bank's assistance strategy for enhancing women's participation in development
activities in the productive and social sectors.
56.   Economic reform measures were Initiated under the firs! two Economic Recovery Credits
and the Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC) and the parallel Technical Assistance
Credit (PIRCTA). On the basis of an assessment of the achievemets in macroeconomi- md
structural reform under the three operations, additional measures will be proposed for the Multi-
Sector Adjustment operation included in the lending program for FY94 and subsequent adjustment
operations.
57.   Concurrent with the PIRC, the Bank will provide assistance to agriculture, education and
infastructure through the Agricultural Marketing and Processing and Inrascture, Infrastructure
Engineering projects and the proposed Education Rejabilitation Project in FY93. These
operations will be followed by others in FY94 in Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation and Agricultural
Diversification, with Telecomimunications and Public Sector Management as reserve projects.
The FY95 program includes a Industrial and Financial Adjustment Credit, a Health and Nutrition
project, and a Power Rehabilitation project, with financial intermediation and fifth Ralways
project in reserve status. Finally, in FY96, Bank operations will include a follow-on Multi-Sector
Adjusment operation, and support for Agricultural Research and Extension and Transport
Rehabilitation; Community Development, Small-scale Mining, and Natural Resources Preservation
and Development are the reserve projets.
58.   IC and MIGA: IFC's portfolio in Zambia consists of ten investments for a total gross
commitments of US$106.6 million; one of IFC's largest in the Southern Africa region. While
quite diversified (mining, agriculture and ma ing), tis portfolio has not performed wel in
recent years; the bleak economic siuaion and heavily regulated policy environment adversely
afected most investments. IFC, however, expects that with the recent policy changes and the
anticipated large privatization program, prospects for existing and new investments will improve
(particularly in agriculture and in companies being privatized). IFC is keeping in close touch with
the Zambian authorities and the Bank on progress on the privatization program. Zambia has been
a member of MIGA since 1988 and has paid up its subscription. MIGA has as yet no outstanding
investment guarantees in Zambia.
F. Aid Coordination and Relatiom with the IMP
59.   The coordination of donor assistance has been central to the Bank's program in Zambia
becase of the extraordinary efforts needed to clear arrears and restart the program, the very large
external finacing needs of the country due to falling copper revenues, and the large debt burden.
Formal Consultative Group meetings were held in April and July of 1990, March 1991, and
March 1992. In addition, informal donor meetings were held in Paris several times a year to
provide urgent updates and opportunities for donor consultation. Regular informal briefings of
Executive Directors and their staff have also held at both the Bank and the Fund. A considerable
donor consultation process has also been established in Lusaka to coordinate the amounts of
assistance and of donor policies at the sector level, with different donors taking the lead role in
different sectors. Finally, the SPA meetings have provided a useful forum for the overall
coordination of donor amounts and the discussion of general donor coordination issues such as the
use of counterpart funds.



-20 -
60.   All of the major donors and multiaterl institutions are supporting Zambia's economic
refom program. IIs support as expressed at the latest CG and SPA meedngs, has been strong.
'he broad agreement on policy has meant that an increasing amount of donor assistance is now
avaflable as gener balance of payments support, and that the project assistance is increasingly
being coordinated within an overall agreed program of donor support.
61.   A Fund-monitored program was endorsed by the IMP Board in June 1990. In April of
1991, the Fund Board approved the first ever rights accumulation program with Zambia which
established conditions under which Zambia would grad;L:y accumulate rights to withdrawals of
IMF resources such that, after three ycars, the accumwulated rights could be used to withdraw
*           enough resources to clear completely Zambia's arrears to the IMF, which were about US$1.2
billion in mid-1990. Due to poor fiscal performance, Zambia did not qualify to accumulate rights
in 1991. A rvsed rights accumulation program was approved by the IMP Board in July 1992,
involving US$1.2 billion over a three-year period.
G.  dai:n for :l MuIdrn glim
62. Despite policy reversals, Zambia has made generally good progress in economic reform
since 1989, and remarkable progress since the new Government came to power. Yet a great deal
remains to be done. In addition to the major emphasis now being placed on private sector
development, privatization and parastatal reform, fi2ther structural measures are needed on
macroeconomic issues such as foreign exchange, external tariffs, taxation and controlling
iation. The financial sector needs modernizing, and greater focus has to be placed on
encouraging exports, particularly in non-traditional sectors. All sectors (agriculture, transport,
local government, energy, and social services) neea o address issues that were neglected during
the post-Independence years. Civil Service reforr is an important component of the reform
program as it addresses the public sector's ability to formulate and implement these reforms. The
Government's PFP and the Bank's country assistance strteg seek to address these needs.
However, the magnitude of the challenges faced by Zambia is so great that economic adjustment
and achievement of Zambia's full potential will be a lengty process. Substandal foreign
assine, tnduding debt relef, will continue to be required to provide essential inputs and ti ose
consumer goods that cannot be competitively produced domestically, to develop the nation's
human resources, and to strengthen the basic infastructure.
63.   Progress in mplementing ths long-term strategy wUIl be evaluated on the basis of the
fllowingfour criteriz Thefirst is the Goverment's ability to implement macroeconomic
policies (monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies) that can accomplish and sustain financial
stabilization, measured against the achievement of targets for inflation, the fiscal deficit and credit
expansion. The second criterion is the Government's success in public sector reform, including
progress in divesting itself of parastatals and in reforming public utilities, (to be judged against
the volume of privatizations and performance and financial targets for the remaining public
utilities), and also civil service reform. The third is future growth and diversification of the
economy, measured against an expected decline in dependence of the economy on copper for
export earnings and government revenues and against more rapid private sector growth. The
policy framework should encourage private sector investment and continued rehabilitation and
development of the social and economic infrastucture. Thejfboth is Government commitment to
improved delivery of social services, as reflected in: (a) an increased budgetary share for
education and health; (b) strengthening of the Government's stratWy of social services; and (c)
improvement in the delivery of social welfare assistance.



-21 -
64.   Successful implemn   of this adjustment program depends on three key factors.
First, is the need for ustained commitment of the Zambian authorities to prgram
Implementation. Lack of commitment and policy reversals have conibued to implementation
failure in the past. This risk is miiie by the new Government's decisive actions toWdate and
the strong mandate it received on the basis of its unambiguous economic strategy. Second, is the
need for substantial debt relief and highly concessional external assistance to be extended to
Zambia, to ensure adequate financial resources are available for the adjustment program
paticularly given the effects of th s drought. The Bank is appealing to donors to make
etraordinary effots to increase their commitments to support the Zamblan program and food
import requirements. Third, successful implementation of the adjustment prgram will require
restraint and sacrifices on the part of all Zambians. Lack of mass support for the program could
impede its implementaton, and the safety-net provisions are critical as will be the Government's
ability to present and explain its policies cleady. The criteria noted above for monitoring
performance should help ensure that the program remains on track.



-22 -
1989    1990    1991        19       19       1994
an t chaes
*             1Red GDP                            -1.0    40.5    -1.8        -9.0    13         4.0
Redl na°n  GDP                        .1.7    40.7    -0.7        -10      14        4.1
Real per capi GDP                     -4.4      3.9     5.1      -11.8      9.7      0.5
Real onmpto per capita               -10.1    -3.0    -2.8        -15.2     5.9      0.2
To= of tUd                             9.4    -1.1    -7.3        - 8.8    -6.9    -3.8
Conmepr    (and peo                  158.0   105.0       .0       99       25       10
UXpogt volme                           3.1      6.8   -17.4        7.6      4.8      3.5
Copr                        8.4      2.0   -14.8        4.1       2.2     2.3
Noncopper                  -14.9    27.9   -27.1        39.2    12.5      6.6
mpot voluw                             8.4    15.9   -11.5        24.8    10.9       4.6
Realeoap _to (d      iaton -)         32.2    -7.5    0.7          -        -       -
Money Supply (M2)                     65.3    45.8    98.1      5571       15        7
IOwn domestic avIos                   13.7    16.6    12.0        -4.2      9.2    10.3
anrss natinal sainp                    6.0    13.8    15.3         3.2    13.1    11.9
Cental GovL                 -4.9    -1.8      1.2       -        -        -
Non-Sgovenment             10.9    15.6    14.1         -        -        -
Unrequbod tmansufe and net f&dwor Incom  -7.7    -2.8   3.3        5.6      2.9      07
Gass domnotic Invesment                9.9    17.3    13.5        11.5    17.5    18.0
Cetral Govt*                4.7      5.4      7.3        4.9     4.5      4.7
Non-gvernment               5.3    11.9       6.2        6.6    13.0    13.3
Coumtion                              86.3    83.4    88.0       104.2    90.8    89.7
CestaalGo VL               14.1    11.1    10.3         23      20       20
No _gvmmt                  72.2    72.3    77.7         81.2    70.8    69.7
bxturaluunt accouti                   4.0      -3.5     1.8       -8.3    -4.4    -6.1
MeOa seodx                 18.0    16.9    15.7         -        -        -
Non-metal sector           -22.0   -20.4   -14.9        -        -        -



-23 -UE A
PmJxf Cot 9W= bl ProLeet cgMg
MUM
TOl
%     Ba
L"1  Eard  I"    LL  CA
A. IMPROVEIM S IN QUALXTY
1. Instuctional Matals        898    8,05S       8,954       90     2S
2. Examination Inputs          562    2,423      2,986       81      8
B. REHABIL=ATION &
CONSTRUCTION                 7,122    6,616      13,738      48     38
C. PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
1. Head-teacer Traing         705       340      1,044       33     3
2. Inspectors Course          335       272        608       45      2
3.  satnoihonSpport           453    3,469       3,922       88     11
4. Teachers' Records          177       599        776       77      2
5. Inomato Management          21        87        108       81      0
6. Major Studies              650       975       1,625      60      5
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT           1,5S1      681       2,196      31      6
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS    1X439   23L518          3527 aZ            IN
PHYSICAL CONINGENCIES 1,031    2,296            3,328      69      9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES         1,409    2,095      3,505      60      10
OTALPROJETCS                   14879    2 72910     42872       Q     119
(US$ moo)
Laol Foreigt ITatl
Zambia                                   5g-
Govenmen                3.3    1.9
Communities             0.7    0.0
IDA                       9.3   22.6  31.9
Co-financiers             JiA      A    £D
Total                     14.9   27.9  42.8



-24-                                   CRMH      il-  B
Page 1If 2
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
lKQi; h F                                    LO          LO    Qte   N.A.F.i
A. Civil Works - New Schools
anid ECZ/MOE upgrading                 5.6          1.7       0.3 b       1.6           9.1
(5.6)*      (1.7)      (0.3)       (-.-)         (7.6)
B. Rehabilitation and Extension of Schools
(1) Civil Works                           -.-         1.8       0.201       0.2            2.2
(1.8)     (0.2)       (-.-)         (2.0)
(2) Construction Matials                  1.0         0.2       0.80        0.2            2.2
(1.0)       (0.2)      (0.8)       (-.-)         (2.0)
C. Education Materials                        6.8         3.4        -.-        0.3           10.5
(6.8)       (3.4)      (.)         --           (10.2)
D. Equipment, Furn iture & Vehicles           3.0         1.8        0.1        0.3            5.2
(3.0)       (1.8)      (-.-)      (--)           (4.8)
E. Tedcnical Assistance & Studies             -.-          -.-       5.1        0.1            5.2
* . )   (_._)   (3.4)       (.)(3.4)
P. Trahinyg & Workshops                       -.-          -.-       1.6        1.9            3.6
( ,)   (. )     (0.7)       (.)(0 7)
0. PPF                                        -.-          -.-       0.2         -.-           0.2
( . )   (-.-)   (0.2)       (  )(0.2)
H. Incremental Operating Costs                -.-          -.-       1.0        3.8            4.7
k        L-.-      LL2Q                      (1; f.2)
TOTAL                                  16.4         8.9        9.3        8.3           42.8
(16.4)       (8.9)      (6.6)       (-.-)        (31.9)
*   Figres in pumntme indicate IDA financn. Some additin diopans ae duo to rounding.
- "Nat Assoeio fnned," indcdes m re  coas, tuaiing, wodchop and inind conunuiy oot&uin for school
a d extinajonot fined out of the proceds of ti adit. Most recnat coos am finane by tho
Govnment, whbile tiig and wmesrhps an financed by oo-finanse  uder paMld oo-firanig  .ungaments
w    ncludes form account ipgmdins of seurity of ECZ and MOE buldis.
d/  Pudet spng for cont on m ab iasm    value equimnt and specialid laboervice on the bas of thwe



-25                              £CIIU
Pae 2 ef2
IDA         -eretag of Eh     _dir
D~~~hl_n   hm-I
1. CivilWorks
(a) Now S ools                     7.0        100% of oregand 90  of local
(b) El Itsoand Rehilation
of Existn Schools (SRPU)        2.0         10o%
2. Matras, including fbr e for l(b)  2.5          100%
3. EducatIon Matials                  8.9         100%
4. OLher urne, Veicles, & Equipent 3.5            100%
S. Cosulta  Servces, Training
and Studies                        3.7        100%
6.  accrmentda Opeating Casts2:
(a) of MOE                         0.9        100%
(b) of th SRPU                     0.1        100%
7. Project Prepaton Advce             0.2        Amount due
8. Unallocated                        3.2
IDA lMisSehduule
(US$ MilUao)
i22 m ~           i  im  m
Amount Disbursed     1.9  3.8  9.0  9.3  6.7  1.3
umulave hAmou        1.9  5.7  14.7 24.0  30.7  32.0
Pe _ena of Total    6  18    46   75    96   100
v/  NNtoftaxee
~f    ncldesoffice afiplss wu and travL.



Page 1If 1
ZAMA
EDUCATION RIHADllO   POJC
Timetble and Kay rcimng SIM
(a) Time taken to prepare Project   14 months
(b) Prepared by                     IDA (AF6PH)3/ I Ministry of
Education, Zambia
(c) First IDA mission               June 1991
(d) Appraisal Mission               April 1992
(e) Negotiations                    August 1992
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness   November 1992
(g) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs   PCR report mumber 10677 (1992)
PCR report number 5551 (198)
PCR report numbar 5552 (1985)
PPAR report number 4508 (1983)
Ruoth Kgia, Taik Manag.t Steen Jorgasmn, Boomia and Mesdkeun Mulatu, Financial Analyst in
cm colaboraio widt a team from the Ministry of Educaton, Zambia



27 -
$CAMEDZ D
Page  of 3
S1tat  Of Bs*  Growa Orat ion  In ZAWIA
PF115 - SANIY StatuInt Of Los ad 10D Credlts
(LOA dta as of /30/92 - MiS data as of 06/1V92)
By Cottry
citry:   ZAMiA
At    In LrAUS  el I Ion
(IeSS ca=llatlns)
Lo  or       Fiscal                                                                               Lldis- Closing
Credit No.     Year  8Brrower                       Puros                      Ba*         IDA    bursed  Oate
Credits
19 Credits(s) closed                                                                     461.76
C14370-ZAM1    1S64   ZA1A                          FORESTRY III                         22.40      8.23   6W/92(R)
C15290-ZAM    1905   ZMBIA                          FIMIES                                7.10      8.16  131/91(R)
C15750-ZAM    1965   ZAWIA                          RUYS.IV                              20.00     25.17 06/92(R)
C187S7ZAJ     1986   ZAUIA                          TAS II                                8.00      7.02  1231/92
CC17430-ZAM   1867   ZA&SIA                         COFFEE II                            20.40     22.72 06/30/95
C17460-ZAM    1867   ZAWSIA                         AGR. RES.& EXT.                      13.00      14.02  12/31/95
C17530-ZAU    197   ZAWiA                           Q9Z III                              10.00      12.00 06/30/92
C22690-ZAM    1991   ZAWSIA                         MINING TAS                           21.00     21.51  W0I3I7
C22730-ZAM    1991   ZASIA                          SOCIAL RECOVERY PRMJ                 20.00      17.05 01/31/97
C22142ZAM(S) 1992   ZWIA                            RECOVERY CRIDT                       10.00       1.05 0/01/93
c24050-ZAm(S) 1992   ZASBIA                         PRIVATIZATION/IN. R                 2D0.00    211.14 06/30/94
C24C60-ZAJ    1992   ZMIA                           PIRC TEOUICAL ASSIS                  10.00     10.56  1231/97
C24220-ZAM    1993  ZWBIA                           VTB. & PROCESS.                      33.00     33.00
TOTAL nuosr Credits *   13                                                                394.90    391.64
LOnSS
28 Loam(s) closed                                                             512.13
All closed    for    ZAUIIA
TOTAL nMWr Louis *   0
TOTAL*"                                                       582.13    . 862.68
of ,Eich raId                                               360.38        1.31
TOTAL hold by Bar* & ICA                                      221.7?      861.35
AOnt sOld               28.58
of idhlch repld       28.58
TOTAL Uidisbursed                                                                   391.73
HotS:
* Not yet effective
a'Not yet timed
Total Awroved, RePanuts, and  tstding balan   reprnt bhactive ard irnctiv Lom   Ad Crdits.
(R) Indicates foa I ly revised Closing Mte.
(S) Indicates 5AU/SECAL Lons ad Credits.
Ihe Not Arooed and B* RapayMnt ar historical valUh, all others WS  rt    wIUs.
Tm Slglng, Effective,   d Closing date ae bmsd mn tr  Loan Deartant off loal data ad are not tam
frco thi Ta* SEdpt file.



I.-4o~~t
5it-X X1c   cT|||}     g        WE&SEtSES|§FW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
@ ~  ~     o~            p . st |888888t 
'S~ ~~ g.                                   1i     a, [0



-29-
Peo 3 qf3
ZAMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC iNESTMENT
as of July 31, 199*
rw_t    PY                            bigor                       Busness        Loan  Equity   Totl
Number                                                                            -USS wmiion-
216-ZA     1972
250-7A     1973   Zsmbia BaoS Shoe                            Shoes              2.1     0.2     2.3
307-ZA     1975
394-ZA     1978   Cenutu Productions LAd.                     Pbstic Wrap        0.9     0.2      1.1
324-ZA     1976   Davt Bank of Zambia                         D.vt FQSna                 0.5     0.5
632-ZA     1982   Ethanol Co. of Zambia                              110         3.7     0.6     4.3
1001-ZA    1988   Gwembe Vally Dv't                           Food/Food Pro       3.7     0.8     4.5
1U32-ZA    1989   Mastock (Zambia)                            Food/Food Poc       8.2             8.2
527-ZA     1980
721-ZA     1985   Kafie Textiles                              Texie             10.7             10.7
743-ZA     1985   Mpoagws Dov't Co.                           Food/Food Proc     1.8    0.3      2.1
709-ZA     1984   Zambi Hotl Pop.                             Tourism           22.4            22.4
483-ZA     1980
60-ZA      1982   ZCCM                                        Mining            53.1            53.1
Total Gros8 Commitments                                      106.6     2.6   109.2
Less. Cancetio e, tnnnonaw echagoe u-      .  repaymets,
wteoff., and syndicte sae
52.1     2.4    54.5
Totatl oommbm   hed by IPC                                    54.5     0.2    54.7
Total undisbursed                                              6.5     0.0     6.5
Toal disbursed "                                              48.0     0.2    48.2
NO ca hbave oCCUrod      e S l,: IN em et
halud  Paic4pAton



I B RD 115421
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA                                ---                                                 :S  fo_
POPULATION  DISTRIBUTION                                                                     '                                       T A, N  Z A  N  I A
t9S CENRSUS:                 -      Rodt                                                                                              )-J
One dotne  rqeVm, 500 ppemseq  -*     Rallways                                                    I    V4)0r*k
Town pop: iof-i cns_
IQ.000                 ;      ~RiversMbsh
50.000                gm   SWOS wmvs
\    '- 'e 100,000       +   Airfields
't ( ')  200,000               ----Provincial boundarers
Iw   A  hlA    }  {pt  _ 1\~~~~~~_* ZAIRE!   3    o                                    A P U 4,                           f            
*-1internot- nal bOundarie
N0  "O R                                                                                                         A\
k I t 4 ~~~~W E S T   F  N ''    . |
r   s  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~.COPPER8ELT                                           +   k              I              -s       ~e        ¶>         j
1m                                                C   E   N   T  R  A   L    )
*          -     OZ A  M   I Q  U  E
w                                                                           1O5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SO*K                           KNY   7
!  ; :                          ~~~~/                                     N                                                          -,  Aut * -ANZANI
N A  M   I                                                                                                                     A
ZIMBABWE                                          /e



