Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18972
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBIIC OF ZAMBIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2429-ZA)
February 22, 1999
Africa Human Development 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Afica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipierlts only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
I, . .   , .                 



ZAMBIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Zambia Kwacha
At the time of appraisal (May 1992)
K I         US$0.0051
US$ 1   =    K195
At the time of completion (June 1998)
K1   =    US$ 0.000529
US$ 1         K1890
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIEMS          Action to Inprove English, Mathematics and Science
BESSIP         Basic Education Sub-sector Investment Program
CDC            Curriculum Development Centre
DEO            District Education Office
DflD           Department for International Development, United Kingdom
ECZ            Examinations Council of Zambia
EMT            Education Management Training
GRZ            Government of the Republic of Zambia
MoE            Ministry of Education
MPU            Microprojects Unit, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
NORAD          Norwegian Agency for International Development
PTA            Parent/Teachers' Association
PAGE           Programme for the Advancement of Girls' Education
SHAPE          Self-Help Action Plan for Education
SRP            Social Recovery Project
UNZA           University of Zambia
ZEPH           Zambia Education Publishing House
ZEPIU          Zambia Education Projects Implementation Unit
ZERP           Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Director:   Phyllis Pomerantz (AFC02)
Sector Manager:     Ruth Kagia (AFTH I)
Task Team Leader:   Paud Murphy (AFTHI)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................i
PART L PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................1
Introduction and Background ...........................................1
Project Objectives ...........................................                                          lI
Achievement of Objectives ...........................................2
Project Implementation Experience and Results ...........................................              3
Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................7
Bank Performance ............8.. .                                   ..                                8
Borrower Performance .................................8
Assessment of Outcomes ..............................8
Project Sustainability and Future Operations ...............................9
Key Lessons Learned ...............................9
PART IL        STATISTICAL ANNEXES ................................                                      11
Table 1 Summary of Assessments ................................ 11
Table 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................ 12
Table  3   Project Timetable  ................................                                        13
Table 4 Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..............................................   13
Table 5 Key Indicators for Project Implementation                      .............................................. 14
Table 6 Key Indicators for Project Operation ..............................................           16
Table 7 Studies Included in the Project ...........................,,.,.,.,.,,.,                   ... 19
Table 8 Project Costs ..........................                                                      20
Table 9 Project Financing .......................... 20
Table 10 Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................                                      21
Table 11 Status of Legal Cov-enants               ....................... 22
Table 12 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................................. 23
Table 13 Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ................................... .      .,.,.,.,.,.,.,.23
Table 14 Bank Resources - Missions                ..24
APPENDICES
Appendix A  Aide-Memoires from the Final Supervision and
Implementation Completion Missions ...................................................................   26
Appendix B Ministry of Education Implementation Completion Report Executive Summary .                 34
Appendix C ....................................................................                       46
Table 1 Primary School Enrollment, Boys and Girls, 1990-1996 .46
Table 2 Comparison of Enrolment in Selected Towns, 1990 & 1996 .46
Table 3 MoE Expenditure and Its Share of GRZ Expenditure 1991-1997 .47
Table 4 Primary Education Share of MoE Expenditure 1991-1997 ............................................. 47
MAP IBRD 26792R
Mhs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 2429-ZA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Zambia Education
Rehabilitation Project (ZERP), for which Credit 2429-ZA in the amount of SDR 22.2 million
(US$ 32.0 million equivalent) was approved on October 27, 1992 and made effective on January
21, 1993.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998 (the original closing date). SDR 22.19 million
were disbursed, and the last disbursementtook place on January 19, 1999. A balance of SDR 0.01
million should be cancelled. Cofinancing for the project in the amount of NLG 12.6 million (US
$ 6.6 million equivalent) was provided by the Kingdom of the Netherlands and administered by
the International Development Association (IDA).
This Implementation Completion Report was prepared by Paud Murphy (Task Team
Leader, AFTHI) with support from Noel Lindsay (consultant), Kazuhiro Yoshida (AFTH3) and
Vanessa Saldanha (AFTH1). It was reviewed by Ruth Kagia (Sector Manager) and Phyllis
Pomerantz (Country Director). The borrower assisted the Bank in the preparation of this ICR by
rendering professional assistance to the final supervision and project completion missions. The
Borrower prepared its own Completion Report, the Executive Summary of which is included as
Appendix B.
The preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission which took
place from April 14 - 30, 1998. Two members of this mission were funded by the Dutch
Government in the context of the cofinancing arrangements. The mission received reports from
Zambian officials who had been responsible for implementing different components of ZERP.
The project completion mission was conducted from November 10-20, 1998. The ICR is based
on the findings of these two missions and on documents in the project file.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Description and Objectives
1.    The project was designed in 1992 to address the many issues affecting the education
sector in Zambia, including a massive decline in funding resulting in extremely limited provision
of non-teacher salary expenditures, and grossly inadequate physical facilities. The project was the
first education project following a suspension of Bank lending operations in 1987. The project
had three major objectives: (a) to arrest further decline in education quality, starting at the primary
level; (b) to increase access to education and improve the learning environment; and (c) to
increase the management capacity of the education sector in a context of severe fiscal austerity.
2.    These objectives were to be achieved through a series of interrelated interventions.
Quality was to be improved through the provision of educational materials, and enhancement of
the capacity of the Examinations Council and of the quality and efficiency of examinations.
Access was to be increased through rehabilitation of existing schools and construction of new
schools in priority areas. To increase the capacity of the sector, management training was to be
provided in key areas of the sector and other measures taken, including improved data gathering
and use and targeted studies as an underpinning for education development policies. The project
had a poverty alleviation dimension aimed at improving access for children from low income
families: this was to be achieved by locating new schools in low-income areas, and a gender
objective to be achieved through interventions aimed mainly at gender sensitization. The project
was well-designed and important for the country and the sector but ambitious within the
timeframe and sector capacity. Given that performance indicators were not Bank-standard at the
time of project design, it is noteworthy that indicators for project outputs and effects were
identified and specified at appraisal. However, because an information system was not fully
developed during implementation, it was not possible to verify or measure effect indicators by
project close.
Achievement of Objectives
3.    The overall project objectives were partially achieved. Arresting further decline in quality
will require sustained and substantial investment and more comprehensive actions than were
feasible in a single project and within limited government funding for education. In specific
areas, however, the project had notable achievements and fuither quality improvements will result
provided that the necessary and identified follow-up action is taken. The project increased access
in Lusaka and Ndola and improved the leaming environment in Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola. The
project improved education management through training of headteachers, inspectors and
education officers. The project also contributed positively in its poverty and gender dimensions.
The project was least successfil in its contribution to improving the management of information,
the development of a database, and the completion of studies.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Implementation Agencies. The establishment of a special project unit for the
implementation of the project, in combination with the selection of experienced education and
technical experts on contract to staff this unit, resulted in satisfactory implementation performance
overall. Its isolation from the Ministry of Education (MoE) contributed, however, to an
inadequate involvement of the MoE in project implementation. It did not, as a result, contribute



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    ii
to necessary capacity building in the MoE. The component of the project assigned to the
Microprojects Unit (MPU) of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, namely the
rehabilitation of schools, was also well-implemented and is rated satisfactory. However, the
establishment of a special account managed by MPU created problems for budget controls.
5.    Educational Materials. A substantial portion of the planned educational materials was
procured. The progress made will undoubtedly benefit the learning environment and contribute to
improving quality. Consequently, this is rated satisfactory. However, while responding to needs,
the effects have been limited to date because of problems of storage and distribution to schools,
particularly in the rural areas, as well as in the effective use of the materials in schools and a lack
of adequate training of teachers for that purpose. These issues need to be addressed by the MoE.
6.    Construction and Rehabilitation of Schools. Implementation of this component is rated
satisfactory. A total of 779 classrooms, of a planned 1000, have been constructed or rehabilitated,
providing 32,000 additional primary school places. The shortfall resulted from cost overruns,
partially met through increased funding from the Dutch Government. The overruns were
reasonable given the levels of cost increases generally in Zambia during the project period.
However, the mode of reporting on anticipated cost increases created budgetary problems and
made timely corrective action difficult. Class sizes have been reduced, and a maximum of two
shifts is now the norm other than in grades 1-4 in some schools in Lusaka, where -- because of
pressure for places -- three shifts still exist. The learning environment has been improved, and
vandalism has decreased dramatically in the project schools.
7.    The provision of new places contributed to the alleviation of poverty, though not perhaps
to the extent anticipated. The most needy, the informal residential areas, were included to a
limited extent only in the chosen locations. The schools were, nevertheless, located in poor areas.
'While participation is not exclusively from children of very poor families, the latter appear to be
substantially represented in the enrollments.
8.    Examinations Reform. The Examinations Council of Zambia (ECZ) was strengthened
to deliver efficient, timely examination services, and its capacity increased to improve the quality
of the examinations and contribute to teaching in schools. Implementation is rated satisfactory.
Additional follow-up measures and funding are necessary for Grade 4 competency testing and
feedback on Grade 7 results to enable ECZ to assist schools and policy-makers to utilize
assessments to improve learning.
9.    Education Management Training. The training provided to virtually all the
headteachers under this component was particularly successful in its outcome and in its execution
and this is rated highly satisfactory. It resulted in improved school management affecting
positively the quality of education in most schools. The training provided to a number of
education officers and inspectors was also beneficial. This training should be refined and
extended.
10.   Management of Information. Support to the MoE in the management of information is
rated unsatisfactory. Strengthening of the planning and analytical capacity of the MoE remains a
priority task; much of the benefit of the training under the project was lost because of a high
turnover of trained staff. Work on the important database under the project did not proceed,
mainly because work was proceeding under a separate initiative supported by UNESCO, which is
now making satisfactory progress. The effects of the studies undertaken, which were deemed to



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    iii
be preliminary only, were modest but they were used as reference materials in education policy
formulation.
11.   Gender. Finally, the gender dimension of the project has been criticized by many of
those interviewed for being too narrowly focused on sensitization and not integrated with other
Government gender initiatives. There is, nevertheless, evidence of very positive outcomes in, for
example, informing head teachers of gender issues and how to address them, design of school
latrines and sanitation facilities for girls, and seeking to eliminate sex-stereotyping in textbook
and examinations preparation. In addition, DEOs formulated a deliberate policy of gender
balance in management of schools, appointing a female deputy where there is a male head. The
task is not completed, and a more thorough review will be required to determine its overall
impact.
12.   Bank Performance. Bank performance in project identification and appraisal was highly
satisfactory, while Bank performance in supervision was generally satisfactory. There was an
inadequate focus on progress towards achieving the overall project objectives, as distinct from
project implementation: quantification of targets would have assisted that process. Bank staff are
perceived to have been very supportive in addressing and resolving issues arising in the
implementation of the project. The project would have benefited, however, from a more timely
and thorough follow-up to the findings of the mid-term review.
13.   Borrower Performance. Borrower performance was also generally satisfactory,
particularly in regard to the successful implementation of the different components. However,
Borrower performance was deficient in the lack of focus on the project objectives and inadequate
co-ordination and oversight by MoE. There was also inadequate ownership of the project by the
MoE and, thus, a lack of involvement in project implementation.
Future Operations and Sustainability
14.   It is likely that the project achievements will be sustained. The forthcoming Basic
Education Sub-sector Investment Program (BESSIP) provides the context for developing and
building on such achievements and ensuring necessary follow-up, including funding. The project
objectives of improved quality and access are the two development objectives of BESSIP, which
is the Government's total program for basic education, and involves extemal financing agencies
and other cooperating partners working with the Government.
Key Lessons Learned
15.   Lessons for All Projects:
(i)   It is important to ensure ownership within the concerned ministry. This can be
achieved by building up the planning and implementation capacity of the ministry and
assigning it a key role in design and implementation. Building ownership warrants high
priority, even where this can only be achieved at some cost to the speed and efficiency of
project implementation.
(ii)   There should be an appropriate match between project objectives and indicators
for measuring the objectives, and indicators for the achievement of targets should be
selected and set for different stages of the project. In addition, methods of measurement



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                       iv
should be identified at appraisal. Where baseline indicators are not available, a
methodology for qualitative assessment should be established during project preparation.
(iii)   Assembling the correct project implementation team in country is a key factor for
successful project implementation and Bank staff should provide technical advice to
Government and support for this exercise. Expertise in the sector and in technical areas
such as construction and financial management is required.
(iv)   Establishing more than one special account separately managed for different
components of a project creates problems in fund management and monitoring. A single
account managed by the body responsible for overall implementation may be a preferable
option.
(v)    Clarity of design contributes to successful project implementation. Achievement
of overall project objectives requires attention at design and implementation to ensure
coherence and interaction between different components.
(vi)   While it is difficult to forecast cost increases accurately when designing a
building component, procedures and methodologies for approving these during
construction, and reporting procedures to provide advance information and cost trends,
should be agreed in advance.
(vii)  To ensure sustainability, project outcomes and actions required should be
addressed fully with Government in the preparation of any follow-up project.
16.   Lessons for Educational Projects:
(i)    Successful projects identify critical quality enhancement functions: examinations
reform, headteacher training, textbook provision; and concentrate on carrying out these
functions while building long-term capacity.
(ii)    Training of headteachers can have a strong impact on school management.
Utilizing teacher training colleges and lecturers in their down-time has a number of
benefits: costs are low; and college lecturers have the opportunity to learn from real
school experiences. The experience gained enriches their regular pre-service training.
(iii)   The involvement of communities, through the PTAs, in the management and
financing of school maintenance can help to reduce vandalism and increase ownership. It
also contributes to maintaining the enhanced social and learning environment, which has
resulted from the provision of the new and rehabilitated schools.
(iv)   High-stakes examinations drive teaching and learning in schools. As a
consequence, examinations agencies can assist improvement in the teaching-learning
process. However, reforming an examinations agency to provide support for improved
teaching and learning in schools takes time. Reform should be implemented in phases.
First, efforts should be directed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the basic
examinations services, while building capacity to support assessment in schools. It is
only when these two are in place that the efforts can be directed to enhancing the
interaction between the examinations agency and the school system in support of quality
improvement.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                      v
(v)    Designing textbook components requires attention not only to publishing and
procurement but also to distribution and utilization. In particular, teachers need support
to utilize textbooks well.



PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction and Background
1.    Zambia's economy suffered from 1974 onwards as a result of a protracted decline in the
price of copper, on which the economy was heavily dependent. The problem was compounded by
economic policies which favored consumption instead of savings and efficient investment.
Between 1974 and 1991, GDP per capita declined by one third. With the accumulation of arrears,
World Bank and IMF lending operations were suspended between 1987 and March, 1991, and
suspended again in September, 1991. Disbursement under IDA operations resumed in February,
1992. In 1991/92 a new Government embarked on a policy of refonn aimed at reversing the long
economic decline and retaining the momentum of growth. At appraisal of this project, Zambia
was seen as being at the threshold of major economic reform which, in synergy with anticipated
increased investment in education, was expected to increase the benefits of education and promote
economic growth.
2-.   The project SAR portrayed an education system in crisis, beset by a variety of adverse
factors which had, in particular, seriously eroded the quality of primary education. These factors
included a massive decline in funding of primary education, with virtually no provision for non-
teacher expenditures leading to a critical shortage of textbooks and class materials; overcrowded
classes of up to 80 or more children, frequently in double, triple and even quadruple shifts; and
grossly inadequate physical facilities -- 20,000 classrooms for 1.5 million primary school pupils
and about one half of themn in major need of repair. The problems of access to schooling were
particularly acute in deprived urban areas. While there appeared to be an adequate supply of
teachers, the quality of their training needed improvement. Headteachers received no preparatory
training for their academic and administrative tasks. The difficulties in achieving an acceptable
level of quality primary education in these circumstances were further compounded by a poorly
performing examinations system and other adverse factors such as high teacher absenteeism,
schools closing because of cholera epidemics or rains, as well as widespread vandalism and theft.
Project Objectives
3.    The overall project objectives were to support the Government of the Republic of Zambia
(GRZ) in its efforts to reverse the continued deterioration of the education system and to sustain
education revitalization in a context of severe fiscal austerity. The project had three specific
objectives: (a) to arrest further decline in education quality, starting at the primary level; (b) to
increase access to education and improve the learning environment; and (c) to increase the
management capacity of the education sector in a context of severe fiscal austerity.
4.    The first objective, to arrest the qualitative decline, was in support of Government
policy as set out in the Ministry of Education document: Focus on Learning (MoE, 1992).
Measures were designed to improve learning achievement through: (a) the provision of
instructional materials, complementing bilateral donor initiatives in this area -- textbooks, teacher
guides and syllabi, teaching kits and library materials for schools and teacher training colleges;
and (b) enhancement of the capacity of the Examinations Council of Zambia (ECZ) and
improving the quality and efficiency of examinations, including the introduction of Grade 4
testing for diagnostic purposes. Increased access and improved learning environment, with the
focus on children from low income families, was to be achieved by locating the new schools



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                      2
peri-urban areas, Lusaka, Ndola and Kitwe. This would help reduce walking distance to school,
reduce class sizes to a maximum of 50 and eliminate triple and quadruple shifts (thus permitting
essential increases in teacher-pupil contact time). Rehabilitating and extending the existing physical
facilities in these areas by improving water and sanitation facilities and by strengthening hygiene
education would reduce incidence of school closure due to cholera. A community participation
approach was to be used in the rehabilitation and maintenance to ensure sustainability. Private
sector participation in book delivery and school construction was an important aim. For the third
objective of strengthening planning and management capacity, measures included were: (a)
management training to strengthen the administrative and professional competence of headteachers,
education officers and inspectors; and (b) within MoE, enhancement of the planning and analytical
capacity and strengthening the management information system by improving the database,
establishing and maintaining effective teachers' records and establishing an education
documentation center. The project would support 10 wide-ranging studies, findings from which
would form the basis for developing plans and policies in the education sector.
5.    The project had a gender objective aimed at gender sensitization and improved sanitation
facilities in project schools. The expected benefits were to raise the proportion of girls surviving
beyond Grade 4 and their poor examination performance relative to boys. The project also had a
poverty dimension airned at increasing the participation of children from poor families. Finally the
credit agreement had a number of important covenants as necessary elements of quality
improvement which included: (i) the requirement of an action plan to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Inspectorate in monitoring education standards; and (ii) an appropriate and
specified budgetary allocation to education, and specifically to primary education.
6.    The project was well-designed and directed towards addressing key educational issues, and
its objectives were important and well-articulated. A number of the project components and the
project objectives, notably the quality objective, were overly ambitious, however, in terms both of
what was achievable within the timeframe and limits of the project and of Government finances.
While performance indicators were not Bank-standard at the time of appraisal, the project SAR
nonetheless identified targets for measuring component inputs and outputs and described specific
procedures for establishing baseline data. Unfortunately, these were not carried out.
Achievement of Objectives
7.    The overall project objectives were partially achieved. The objective of arresting the
decline in quality was not quantified as a basis for assessing progress and was not achievable on
the basis of a single project such as ZERP. Nonetheless, the successful implementation of many of
the components has substantially contributed to improvement in quality.
8.    The successful implementation of training for almost all headteachers has contributed to
improving the teaching and learning environment in schools and improved school-community
relations. The new and rehabilitated classrooms improved the learning environment for children in
these schools, increased access in the project locations, and contributed to the poverty alleviation
dimension. The foundation of further quality improvement has been laid through the strengthening
of the ECZ and the development and procurement of textbooks, but these will require further
follow-up action. The gender objective was partially achieved. The project was least successful in
supporting information management at MoE.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                   3
Project Implementation Experience and Results
9.    Implementation Agencies. The project was quite complex and demanding considering
the implementation capabilities and resource constraints of the Zambian education system. Weak
implementation capability was noted at appraisal. For this reason a new project unit (ZERP) was
established which, while linked to the MoE through a Steering Committee chaired by the
Permanent Secretary and through component committees, was established outside of the MoE
bureaucracy to facilitate speedy implementation. Of particular note is the composition of the
implementation team. Initially, an education specialist was appointed director, and the team
comprised specialists in textbooks, education management training, infrastructure, procurement,
policy studies and gender, as well as a financial controller. Subsequently, following the death of
the Director, the infrastructure specialist took over as director. The arrangement to establish the
project unit outside the MoE had merit at the time and this, in combination with the team's
expertise, did lead to relatively successful implementation for which the ZERP team deserves
credit. However, this arrangement did not provide for necessary capacity building in the MoE. In
addition, a reported lack of ownership of the project by the MoE reduced the potential for
effective and ongoing follow-up of actions initiated under the project. It is generally
acknowledged that the Steering Committee did not act as an effective co-ordination mechanism,
and the participation of MoE officials in the component committees was limited. There is little
evidence also of cooperation between ZERP and a number of other projects ongoing at the time,
particularly with regard to seeking synergies at school level.
10.   The school rehabilitation component was placed under the Social Recovery Project
managed by the Micro-Projects Unit (MPU) of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development in view of their experience in this area which included working with the
communities in school rehabilitation. There is general satisfaction with the outcome. The
existence of a separate account for the components managed by MPU presented difficulties for the
project financial director, however, in ensuring that all components of the project remained within
their allocated budgets. MPU did not monitor expenditures under their components and
withdrawal requests exceeded the agreed ceilings. A single account, centrally managed would
appear to be a preferable option.
11.   Project Implementation. After initial delays, including a delay of over a year in the
appointment of the Financial Controller, implementation proceeded satisfactorily. Differences
existed between GRZ and Bank procedures on the financial limits for local shopping, local
competitive bidding and international competitive bidding. These problems were not resolved
during the life of the project. Despite this, procurement and disbursement proceeded in a timely
manner. Accounts for the project were kept in a satisfactory manner, and reporting was generally
timely.
12.   Educational Materials. Implementation of this component was satisfactory. Over 90%
of the targeted figure of about 4.1 million textbooks was purchased, 100% of teaching kits for
primary schools and over 90% of library books for teachers training colleges. However, only 50%
of the planned teacher guides were produced, and only 21% of reference books. This was a
commendable performance overall, achieved despite initial problems in resolving copyright
disputes with the Zambia Education Publishing House. ZERP collaborated with the Curriculum
Development Centre which determined the textbooks needed and provided some of the
manuscripts. The private sector was actively involved in book provision through the regular ICB
and NCB procedures and through supplying textbooks off the shelf.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                       4
13.   In its further execution, however, this component proved over-ambitious. In the absence
of other distribution and storage facilities, the District Education Offices (DEOs) were used as
centers of storage and distribution. While this was a logical arrangement, in practice problems
arose as the DEOs lacked storage facilities, vehicles and budget. The final supervision mission
noted that "there are large quantities of undelivered materials at the various stages of the
distribution process". Progress in distributing outstanding material is being made, but poor
distribution capacity and storage facilities remain major problems, especially in rural areas.
Furthermore, storage facilities are equally inadequate in the schools themselves, except in the
project schools, while many schools do not have effective arrangements in place for the use of
textbooks by pupils. It is generally accepted that the training of teachers in the use of textbooks is
a requirement for pupils to benefit fully from textbook availability. Orientation seminars for
selected teachers were provided at the provincial level under the project, but the anticipated
extension of that training did not materialize.
14.   Construction and Rehabilitation of Schools. Implementation of this component was
rated satisfactory. A substantial proportion of the planned work was completed - 19 new schools
(20 planned) and 33 existing schools (40 planned) rehabilitated and extended, giing a total of
779 classrooms, as against a planned 1000, and giving about 32,000 additional places. The
reasons for the shortfall were mainly budgetary, despite a supplementary grant of about $3.7
million from the Netherlands towards the works, and resulted from cost overruns of 13-40%. The
factors noted by the April 1998 evaluation mnission, and confirmed by the completion mission, as
directly responsible were: (i) inadequate budgeting for site works; (ii) sharp increases in the price
of building materials; and (iii) adjustments for price inflation, including for some necessary
design changes. Other factors were the major fall in the value of the Kwacha and of the Dutch
Guilder against the US dollar. The cost overruns were not unreasonable in the light of building
costs increases in Zambia in the project period, and costs per classroom compare favorably with
those in other countries in the region. The lack of advance reporting on anticipated cost increases
in construction activities and on the basis for such increases did, however, create significant
budgetary problems and militated against corrective action to address the resulting shortfall in a
timely manner.
15.   The facilities built or rehabilitated are considered to be generally suitable and of good
quality. Some decisions taken, as a cost saving exercise of the building program, may have been
ill-advised, for example, the omission of boreholes and storage tanks and all practical rooms, and
the new design for the pit latrines. Some schools visited suffered from a shortage of water and
headteachers strongly supported the provision of practical rooms. In addition, the pit latrines
partially collapsed in two Lusaka schools, though not in the four schools on the Copperbelt.
These and other aspects of the buildings would warrant reconsideration as an input to future
building programs, and this is already taking place under a building program funded by the
Japanese Government. The proper ongoing maintenance of the facilities is critical, and the project
made a very important contribution in this area by developing a set of maintenance manuals,
while the MPU provided training to district teams in school maintenance. The high level of
participation of communities, through PTAs, in the maintenance of schools was a feature of all
project schools visited during the project completion mission.
16.    The new schools and places provided appear to have had a very positive effect on the
learning environment and on the incidence of vandalism. The environment, and in particular the
sanitary arrangements, which address the needs of girls, has contributed to an equal representation
of girls with boys in the project schools. Health inspections in the new schools have also
contributed to the absence of health problems; cholera, which was a major problem at the time of



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                      5
project design, has not reappeared. Class sizes have been reduced to a maximum of 40-50, and
triple shifts have been eliminated except in grades 1-4 in some schools in Lusaka where there is
continuing parental pressure for places.
17.   The project contributed to the poverty alleviation objective, but perhaps not to the extent
anticipated. The most needy, the informal residential areas in Lusaka, were not fully represented
in the chosen locations. The primary schools were, nevertheless, located in poor areas; and while
participation included those from less poor neighborhoods, the children of the poorest families
were substantially represented. Information obtained in school visits during the completion
mission indicated a participation pattern of at least 50% by the poorest communities.
18.   The completion mission reviewed the MPU-managed component in terms of achievement
of project objectives. In quantitative terms, the component was largely implemented and the
quality of work is deemed satisfactory. Direct unit cost comparisons between the ZERP-
contracted schools and the MPU schools is not possible as specifications differ. A unit cost of
$190 per sq. meter for new classrooms in MPU schools compared with US$271 per sq. meter in
contracted schools was noted. The former does not, however, include the costs of electrical
installation and supply, paving or landscaping and there are no window frames or glazing. If cost
savings are required, therefore, the main focus should be on specifications. There was no
community involvement in the provision of contracted schools, whereas this is a fundamental and
successful aspect of the MPU schools. However, the experience of the ZERP schools indicates
the potential for successful community involvement, through the PTAs, in the post-construction
management and maintenance of schools.
19.   Examinations Reform. Implementation of this component was satisfactory, which
reflected, in part at least, the direct involvement of the ECZ in implementation. The quality of
technical assistance and training was deemed satisfactory. The ECZ building is now dedicated to
their sole use, permitting security measures, but examination paper leakages are being reported in
1998 arising from weaknesses in the district distribution system. The ECZ is now computerized
to the extent of being able to process the examinations fully in house. A consequence is that the
ECZ now fumishes the examination results to the secondary schools before the beginning of the
school year, instead of months later as was previously the case. Considerable improvements have
been made also in the operations of the ECZ, including the capacity to carry out item analysis and
interpret data on candidate performance. In the important area of competency testing at Grade 4,
assessment instruments have been prepared and national trials are completed.
20.   A number of tasks have not been completed, however, and require follow-up and funding.
Some scheduled training of management did not proceed because of a lack of fimds, and training
has yet to be provided in the important area of measurement and research. The computer is not
Year 2000 compliant, and its capacity needs to be increased, in particular if national assessment
and competency testing at Grade 4 are to proceed. A new printing machine will be required to
print the materials and manuals for Grade 4 testing. The intention to provide feedback to schools
on examination outcomes was only realized for the Grade 12 examinations: ECZ should examine
how to do this for the Grade 7 examination.
21.   Education Management Training (EMT). In quantitative terms, the training of
headteachers was highly satisfactory, with almost 4,000 teachers trained, constituting over 95% of
the then-headteachers at the primary or basic school level. About 80% of trainees successfully
completed the course. In terms of the quality of the training, implementation was also highly
satisfactory in terms of its impact on school management and in creating a climate for fu-ture



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                     6
improvements. The modality used for the delivery of training, based on the use of teacher training
colleges (TICs) in their down-time, proved highly effective, both in the efficient use of facilities
and in involving TTC staff in the training, thus providing relevant experiences for their own pre-
service work. The EMT course covered only 33% of inspectors and about 50% of the education
officers but is nevertheless deemed to have had a very positive effect. It will need to be arnended
in a future phase to address the pedagogical needs of inspectors. This project component was co-
funded by the Dutch Government.
22.   The real benefits of the training and its effect on quality, as confirmed with headteachers,
will not be maintained if such training is not sustained. Appropriate mechanisms have been
established and useful lessons for improvements learnt, but these need to be implemented by
MoE. This has not yet happened. A new Teacher Education Directorate is about to be established
in the MoE, covering both pre-service training and in-service training, the latter to embody the
AIEMS program, a nation wide in-service training supported by the UK's DFID. Ongoing EMT
should be a component of this work.
23.   Management of Information. This component, which was the least satisfactorily
implemented, consisted of a number of inter-related and important actions: the creation of a
documentation center in the MoE (in collaboration with UTNESCO, which did not materialize),
development of more effective teacher records (to be financed by SIDA) and improvement of the
MoE database (to be largely financed by SIDA). None of these activities has been completed,
although the documentation center is built. Steps have been taken towards the development of
teachers' records and their computerization, and work is continuing. Work on the database was
tenninated in 1996, largely, it would appear, because of differences between various interests
concerning the nature of the database to be developed and an alternative initiative in this area, the
NESIS project. This project, which commenced in 1993/94, was funded by SIDA and received
technical support from UNESCO. Despite a number of setbacks, including the loss of SIDA
funding, development of a good database under the NESIS Project is now making substantial
progress though with reinforcement in data management needed at the district level. Currently,
data are collected by means of an annual survey of schools collated centrally. The data are not as
yet fully reliable, however, as the basis for educational planning. The documentation center was
built by ZERP on the MoE premises as part of its management information database but is not
operational pending completion of electrical works and furnishings, which should be completed
shortly.
24.   In parallel, the project sought to enhance the planning and analytical capacity of the MOE
and provided training for that purpose. The benefits of the training were largely lost, however,
because of a high turnover of staff. A strengthened Planning Directorate is planned under the new
MoE structures.
25.   Policy Studies. The ten studies were intended to be funded in two phases by different
donors, but only part of the anticipated funding materialized. The funding paid for Phase I only of
ten studies (one study, on financing of education, was not conducted, another, on transport and
communications infrastructure was added). They were undertaken by a Policy Study Unit of
ZERP rather than, as had been envisioned, in the Educational Administration and Policy Studies
Department of the University of Zambia (UNZA). This arrangement resulted in "the isolation of
the policy studies", as noted in the mid-term review, from both UTNZA and the MoE and the
absence accordingly of their necessary inputs. The completed studies were deemed to be
preliminary only and varied in quality. They proved of limited value, though they were used as
reference materials for the formulation of the government's education policy document:



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                       7
Educating our Future: National Policy on Education (MoE, 1996) and for the initial studies for
the Education Sector Investment Program. Phase 2 did not proceed due to a lack of follow-up by
the MoE and the lack of funding.
26.    Gender. This element of the program was criticized in the report of the final supervision
mission and by those interviewed during the completion mission as being too narrowly focused
and not connected with other gender programs of the MoE. It was intended to be incorporated
into all project components, with a particular focus on gender sensitization and awareness.
Despite this, there were a number of positive outcomes. Headteachers reported that they now
have a far greater awareness of gender issues as a result of the training received. DEOs have a
policy of gender balance in appointing headteachers and deputy head teachers. Where a school
has a male headteacher, the deputy should be female and vice versa. They did, however, indicate
difficulties in identifying sufficient numbers of qualified female teachers in rural areas. Gender
sensitization was also included in the training of curriculum development specialists and
examination officers and again appears to have had beneficial effects on textbooks prepared under
the project, which are considered by MoE to be gender-sensitive in language and illustration, and
in examinations, as confirmed by ECZ. As indicated in paragraph 16, the schools built had
sanitary facilities catering for the needs of adolescent girls.
27.   A more thorough review will be required to determine the overall impact, taking account
also of other govemment initiatives in this area. The lack of any special provision for girls in
school facilities was identified as a problem, and features such as improved sanitation for girls
were provided in the new facilities. The extent to which these initiatives will contribute to the
project objectives of higher rates of progression and better examination results for girls cannot be
assessed fully at this stage, and follow-up will be necessary. No notable progress has been made
as yet towards increasing the proportion of women in headteacher posts. The project supported a
study on gender issues. As with other studies, Phase 1 only was completed, and the report has not
yet contributed to a reappraisal of follow-up measures to address gender issues, including the
better identification of the factors which militate against women taking headteacher posts. The
lack of a Gender Coordinator militated against the supervision and monitoring of progress in the
gender elements of the project.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
28.   The two potential risk factors were identified in the SAR. The first, on which decisions
lay outside the education sector, is the financial capacity of Zambia to fund primary education.
The education share of Government discretionary expenditures was increased to 19% over the life
of the project. Education expenditures, nevertheless, decreased in real terms. Counterpart
funding (GRZ and communities) of $1.8 million was significantly less than the planned $5.9
million in the SAR, and there were delays each year in allocating the funds budgeted for the
project. In combination with the fall in the value of the Dutch Guilder and the decline in the
dollar value of the SDR, this constrained project funding. Funding constraints remain a problem
in relation to completion of some elements of the project. For example, funding was insufficient
to build one school, though initial site works had commenced in Bauleni township in Lusaka, and
to purchase textbooks which had been developed under the project in social studies, mathematics
and enviromnental science. While the Japanese government is considering funding the school in
Bauleni and the Norwegian government has funded the purchase of textbooks, additional funding
is required to complete the work identified for ECZ, including the implementation of the national
competency testing at Grade 4.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                     8
29.   The other factor related to the implementation capacity of the education sector and
specifically of the MoE. This was a multi-faceted project requiring a high degree of
implementation capacity to implement the project in an effective, coordinated way related to the
various project components but also in pursuance of the project objectives and anticipated
benefits. Placing ZERP outside of the MoE structure responded to concerns on MoE
implementation capacity but had the disadvantages of isolating the project from the MoE. This
had the adverse consequences noted in paragraph 9.
Bank Performance
30.   Bank performance overall was satisfactory. In regard to preparation, the project
preparation team was well chosen and they provided a good deal of important information on the
sector. Appraisal was highly satisfactory, and the appraisal report was detailed and thorough.
Bank supervision missions worked collaboratively with implementation agencies in resolving
emerging issues and keeping the project on track. According to the borrowers report: "A major
contributing factor to the success of the project was a result of the commitment and professional
guidance rendered to the management team by Bank staff'. The mid-term review was delayed by
one year, but this appears to have been justified by early delays in project implementation.
Prompt follow-up of the findings of the mid-term review would have been most desirable, in
particular in matching project progress with measurement and achievement of the project
objectives. Instead, in-field supervision did not take place for a further 18 months. In general
follow-up related to achievement of the overall objectives, as distinct from implementation of the
project components, warranted more attention by supervision missions.
Borrower Performance
31.   Borrower performance overall was also satisfactory. Implementation was rated highly
satisfactory. The quite diverse range of project components was largely implemented, and IDA
funds were fully disbursed, within the project time scale. However, borrower performance in
monitoring overall project objectives and in providing counterpart funding was deficient. Better
coordination and linking of components towards achievement of project objectives might have
been achieved had specified responsibility been assigned to the MoE, and the MoE more actively
involved.
Assessment of Outcomes
32.   Overall, the project's outcomes were satisfactory. While the objectives were not fully
realized, the project did have tangible and substantial benefits which have contributed to these
objectives, as well as laying a foundation which, if acted on by MoE, will continue to support the
achievement of the objectives. The improvement in the leaming environment resulting from the
new and rehabilitated schools, the effect of the training of headteachers and the improvements in
the quality and efficiency of examinations are particularly noteworthy. The sustainability of these
achievements, as noted below, will depend on MoE assuming ownership and taking the required
actions.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    9
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
33.   Key benefits of the project are the degree to which the educational infrastructure has been
enhanced as a basis for future actions, but with follow-up action essential towards further
achieving and sustaining the project objectives. The Government appears to be fully committed
to pursuing and supporting the quality and other objectives of the project. At the same time,
achieving quality in primary education will require greatly increased investment in the sector,
requiring ongoing extemal support. The forthcoming education investment program, BESSIP, is
an important vehicle for that purpose. It provides the context for a coordinated sectoral approach
and also for confirming required levels of government financial commitment.
34.   At the same time, if much of the project's benefits is not to be lost, the MoE must assume
ownership and continue the valuable work done under the project as well as take the identified
and required follow-up actions. There appears to be a real need to strengthen the capacity and
capabilities of the MoE for these purposes. Taking these various actions would appear to be
important inputs to the success of BESSIP.
35.   Clearly, also, the role of donors will be important for sustainability of project impact and
in all future operations. Because of the large number of donors supporting the education sector,
better coordination between donors with common goals and many activities in common and
orchestrated by MoE, would have enhanced achievement under the project. Such coordination
should be an essential feature of future operations if the Zambian education system is to maximize
the return from all projects. BESSIP's design seems well directed in this regard.
Key Lessons Learned
36.   Lessons for All Projects:
(i)   It is important to ensure ownership within the concerned ministry. This can be
achieved by building up the planning and implementation capacity of the ministry and
assigning it a key role in design and implementation. Building ownership warrants high
priority, even where this can only be achieved at some cost to the speed and efficiency of
project implementation.
(ii)   There should be an appropriate match between project objectives and indicators
for measuring the objectives, and indicators for the achievement of targets should be
selected and set for different stages of the project. In addition, methods of measurement
should be identified at appraisal. Where baseline indicators are not available, a
methodology for qualitative assessment should be established during project preparation.
(iii)   Assembling the correct project implementation team in country is a key factor for
successful project implementation and Bank staff should provide technical advice to
Government and support for this exercise. Expertise in the sector and in technical areas
such as construction and financial management is required.
(iv)   Establishing more than one special account separately managed for different
components of a project creates problems in fund management and monitoring. A single
account managed by the body responsible for overall implementation may be a preferable
option.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    10
(v)    Clarity of design contributes to successful project implementation. Achievement
of overall project objectives requires attention at design and implementation to ensure
coherence and interaction between different components.
(vi)   While it is difficult to forecast cost increases accurately when designing a
building component, procedures and methodologies for approving these during
construction, and reporting procedures to provide advance information and cost trends,
should be agreed in advance.
(vii)  To ensure sustainability, project outcomes and actions required should be
addressed fully with Government in the preparation of any follow-up project.
37.   Lessons for Educational Projects:
(i)    Successful projects identify critical quality enhancement functions: examinations
reform, headteacher training, textbook provision; and concentrate on carrying out these
functions while building long-term capacity.
(ii)   Training of headteachers can have a strong impact on school management.
Utilizing teacher training colleges and lecturers in their down-time has a number of
benefits: costs are low; and college lecturers have the opportunity to learn from real
school experiences. The experience gained enriches their regular pre-service training.
(iii)   The involvement of communities, through the PTAs, in the management and
financing of school maintenance can help to reduce vandalism and increase ownership. It
also contributes to maintaining the enhanced social and learning environment, which has
resulted from the provision of the new and rehabilitated schools.
(iv)   High-stakes examinations drive teaching and learning in schools. As a
consequence, examinations agencies can assist improvement in the teaching-learning
process. However, reforming an examinations agency to provide support for improved
teaching and leaming in schools takes time. Reform should be implemented in phases.
First, efforts should be directed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the basic
examinations services, while building capacity to support assessment in schools. It is
only when these two are in place that the efforts can be directed to enhancing the
interaction between the examinations agency and the school system in support of quality
improvement.
(v)    Designing textbook components requires attention not only to publishing and
procurement but also to distribution and utilization. In particular, teachers need support
to utilize textbooks well.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                               11
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1 Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                              V
Institutional Development                         V
Physical Objectives                /
Poverty Reduction                                 /
Gender Issues                                     V/
Other Social Objectives                                                          V
Enviromnental Objectives                                        _
Public Sector Management                                                         /
Private Sector Development                        V/
Other (specify)
B. Components: Achievements
of Objective
Education Materials                               V
Rehabilitation & New Schools             i
Education Management               V
Training 
Examinations Reform             |
Infornation Management                                           V
Gender                          _
Poverty                                     _
C. Project Sustainability             V
D.  Bank Performance
Identification ( a
Preparation Assistance            V/
Appraisal 
Supervision 
E. Borrower Performance
Preparation 
Implementation                                                         _
Covenant Compliance 
Operation (if applicable)
F. Assessment of Outcome



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                                                          12
Table 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits
~~~~~~~z                                                                           /
Preceding Operations
Social Recovery Project     The project funded community initiatives - education, health, nutrition and  1991      Closed 7/31/98
(Cr. 2273)                  economic infrastructure - to help mitigate the negative effects of the  ($20.0  l.)
economic crisis on the poor. To this end the project supported the
rehabilitation and improvement of existing infrastructure and service delivery
through the Microprojects Unit in the Ministry of Finance. The Project aimed
at strengthening communities' ability to improve the information base and
provide analyses to enhance the Government's planning and policy making in
the social sectors.
Second Economic & Social    The project supported measures that would: a) more firmly establish a stable  1996     Closed 01/09/98
Adjustment Credit           macro economic environment; b) improve the competitive position of       97  mil
(Cr. 2910)                  exporters and rationalize the structure of effective protection by revising the  ($9. mil.)
tariff structure; c) strengthen markets, in particular by accelerating the
implementation of land market reforms approved by Parliament in 1995; and
d) improve the delivery of vital social services by strengthening budget
priorities for and within the social sector ministries and by further
development and implementation of policy reforms in these areas.
Ongoing Operations
Social Recovery Project II  The aim of the project is to assist the Government's poverty reduction    1995         Closing 12/31/00
(Cr. 27550)                 program through financing of community initiatives and building of capacity  ($30.0 mil.)
for poverty analysis and monitoring. The project is financing community
initiatives which assist the poor and vulnerable to meet their own objectives
during the adjustment period and thereby allow faster economic and social
recovery. The project is also improving the capacity of communities and
government staff to plan, appraise, manage and maintain investment projects
through the experience gained in such micro-projects. The project is
enhancing the capacity of Zambian institutions to collect and analyze poverty-
related data, both quantitative and qualitative.
Following Operations
Basic Education Sub-sector  This IDA Credit will support the Government's Basic Education Subsector   1999         Negotiation Jan.99
Investment Program          Investment Program, whose main objectives are to increase enrollment (100%  ($20.0 mil./Phase 1)
gross enrollment by 2005) and improve learning outcomes. Efforts will be
concentrated on the first 7 years of 9-year basic education.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                          13
Table 3 Project Timetable
.........AtaI1 teEti~t
Identification                                               June 8, 1991
(Executive Project Summary) .                              _
Preparation                      October 1991                October 1991
January 1992                January 1992 (pre-appraisal)
Appraisal                        March 1992                  April 1992
Negotiations                     August 1992                 August 18, 1992
Board Presentation               October 1992                October 27, 1992
Signing                                                      January 21, 1993
Effectiveness                                                June 18, 1993
Midterm Review                   January 1995                February 1, 1996
Project Completion               December 31, 1997           December 31, 1997
Loan Closing                     June 30, 1998               June 30, 1998
Table 4 Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
T i E~Y~ FY9 EY                                                           m 
Appraisal Estimate 1       1.9       5.7    14.7      24.0    30.7    32.0       32.0
Actual                     0.1       3.7    15.2      20.8    28.4    31.9       32.0
Actual as % of Estimate    8%       65%    103%       87%     93%    100%       100%
(cumulative)
Date of Final Disbursement                                                     1/19/1999
2rEstimate was made for the calendar year instead of the fiscal year at the time of appraisal.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                                                        14
Table 5 Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Learning Materials
New textbooks to be procured and       4 million                    3.7 million (93%) completed.
distributed
Teachers' guides to be produced and    66,5000                      50% completed.
distributed
Teaching kits to be procured and distributed   3500                 100% completed.
Reference Books to be procured and     528,500                      21% completed.
distributed
Examination
Universal competency testing at grade four   Developed and tested   Instrument was developed and tested, but not yet nationally
administered. The delay is largely due to insufficient printing and
computer capacity.
National examinations                  Testing higher order cognitive   Empirical evidence is not yet available.
skills
Examination officer trained to strengthen  10 officers trained      10 officers received 3 month training. In addition, a computer
ECZ's professional expertise                                        program analyst was trained for 2 years, and technical specialists
were employed to help set up a data management system.
Administrative location of Grade 12    To be localized              Localization under way- papers being set in all but four subjects.
examination
Examination feedback                   System in place              Schools are receiving feedback for Grade 12 but not for other
grades. Though ECZ now has capacity to analyze and interpret
data, existing equipment needs to be upgraded.
Access and Physical Facilities
New classrooms in Lusaka, Ndola, Kitve  1000 in total: 700 in 20 new  779 in 19 new and 33 rehabilitated schools.
schools, 300 through
extension and rehabilitation
Water and sanitation facilities        Improved                     Improved for the project schools using gender-sensitive design.
School maintenance fund                10% of invested fund managed  Fund managed and mainly funded by PTA exists in all project
by PTA                      schools. For Microproject schools 10% target for the PTA
contribution is achieved.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                                                            15
Table 5 Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~
Training
Head teacher trained                       4000                         3992 trained
Inspector and education officer trained    100 inspectors, 100 EOs      69 inspectors and 73 Education Offices (45% in total) were
trained.
Management and Admin. Courses for ECZ                                   Director received training, TA by British exam boards provided.
Records and prints officers trained abroad.
Logistical support:                        computer and 3 vehicles for    For ECZ, 4 PCs and 4 optical mark readers have been installed, 1
ECZ; 26 minibuses for TTCs;  truck procured. Ten minibuses were purchased - one for each
11 vehicles for school      primary teachers' college. All 11 vehicles were supplied for
inspectorate                inspectorate (9 for provincial, 2 for head office).
Management Information
Financing system of key education data      Sustainable fnancing system    Good progress on database was made. After SIDA financing
in place                    discontinued, GRZ budget is funding the continued NESIS data
collection and analysis.
Teachers' record system                    to be improved               Teachers files consolidated for easier access. Data entry for
computerization not yet completed.
Documentation center                       to be established            Established; opening of the center awaits completion of electrical
work and furnishing. Over 16700 titles of resource document
collected from 7 provinces.
Policy studies                             to be conducted on 10 issues    9 out of 10 originally identified studies, plus 1 additional study
were conducted for the first phase. Second phase did not take
place because anticipated donor grants did not materialize and
lack of MoE commitment. Study on education fmancing not
conducted due to institutional problem.
Public Resources
Increased public spending on education     15% of total budget by 1995    Education share of budget increased to 19% in 1998 excluding
the Debt-service and from 8.4% to 11% if debt-service is
included. (Note that it is difficult to determine the meaning of
"total government budget" in the SAR.)



Zaambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                                                            16
Table 6 Key Indicators for Project Operation
....   . ...... ..... ....  ...............................   ..  .....  ..........
?;                             . .......e..        te                   :   - 
Learning Materials
Textbook/pupil ratio in primary  Book figures in schools are not available (estimate is 1/4  Monitoring mechanism at the school level, viable
education:                      overall); many books procured did not reach schools due to   book distribution and storage systemi, and long-
1/2 in Math and English, 1/3 in  distribution problems, and where they did, not on time,  term financing policy has been developed and
others                          Plan for distribution and storage developed.           will be implemented, and training provided for
teachers.
Drop out rates, esp. for girls   Comparative national data set not available. Notable  More gender-sensitive curriculum has been
reduced                         improvements in project schools.                        developed and PAGE is being expanded. Cultural
problems need to be overcome, particularly in
non-urban areas.
Literacy/numeracy rates increased   Comparative data set not available                 This is a principal objective of the comprehensive
subsectoral program: BESSIP.
Greater gender sensitivity in   Achieved                                               Gender sensitivity criteria were introduced and
learning materials                                                                     will continue to be applied.
Examination
Value of primary education as   Not yet assessed                                       Income level, productivity and un/employment
perceived by the labor market                                                           among primary-school graduates to be measured.
increased
Teachers' awareness of learning  Increased at project schools through provision of training  Improvement in in-service and pre-service teacher
problems increased                                                                     training including improved curriculum relevance
will be addressed under BESSIP.
Greater curriculum relevance of  Not measurable at this stage                          Mother tongue instruction is being introduced.
teaching
Faster processing speed of Grade    Grade 7 exam results reach schools before the beginning of   PCs and optical mark readers procured are
7 examination results           the school year                                        operating satisfactorily. The equipment need to
be serviced and properly maintained.
Participation ratio in Lusaka,  Enrollment increased during 1991-96 in Lusaka (128,647 to   Provision of school facilities needs to be
Ndola, Kitwe increased           140,822) and Ndola (64,048 to 73,060), but reduced in  continued so as to exceed pace of the school
Kitwe (79,794 to 69806). Corresponding school-age     population growth in these areas.
population for assessing the ratio is not available.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                                                            17
Table 6 Key Indicators for Project Operation (continued)
Access and Physical Faciities
Participation of poor students  Significant increase is achieved in project schools.     Targeted interventions such as in locating new
increased                                                                                schools, removal of social and economic barriers
in remote poor districts through bursaries is
planned under BESSIP.
Participation of female students  Policy of equitable participation was implemented better in  Gender equity and sensitivity policy measures
increased                       project schools. Nationally, girls primary school enrollment  are being extended nationally under PAGE.
increased marginally from 0.70 million to 0.72 million during
1990-1996. Girls share of enrollment remains same at 48% but
with some difference among regions.
School closure due to           None of schools visited by the final supervision mission was  School health measures are being pilot-tested
environmental related illness   closed during the last 5 years; all schools had hygiene  under BESSIP.
reduced                         education.
Triple/quadruple shifts reduced  Double shifts are now common in project primary schools but   Additional places that will be provided under
triple shifts at lower primary level are still found in some  BESSIP should eliminate triple shifts over time.
schools in Lusaka.
Students/classroom/shift in     Class size in visited schools ranged from 40-50.         School mapping and annual survey results will
project schools: maximum class                                                           be used to target communities and schools. New
size to be 50.                                                                           targets being developed under BESSIP will aim
to achieve national average class size of 45.
Parents involvement in school   PTAs established and functioning well in all project schools.    Measures to raise community ownership of
maintenance increased           Maintenance manuals developed and training provided.     schools, community-involvement and social
messaging will be continued under BES SIP.
Vandalism reduced               Greatly reduced in project schools.                      Same as above.
Training
Administrative and professional  Training was highly effective, especially in: systematic  Continue monitoring of head teacher
competence of head teachers     collection and use of key school-level information; improved    perfornance and provide training; make having
improved                        collegiality among school staff; school development plans;  received proper training as prerequisite for
school-community relations; enhanced gender awareness   appointment of headteachers.
among school staff and education officials.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project 1CR                                                                                        18
Table 6 Key Indicators for Project Operation (continued)
Training
Management posts for women     Not notably increased. Only an estimated 2% of primary   Develop selection criteria which are gender-equitable;
increased                      and basic school headteachers was female in 1996.  identify and address other causes for low
representation of women.
Frequency and geographical     Not changed yet, though a plan exists to increase the  Plan to be implemented. Policy to maintain vehicles
coverage of school inspection  number of Inspectorate from 150 to 280 and to     need to be developed and implemented. Additional
increased                      decentralize them as part of MoE's decentralization  measures to enhance mobility are being taken.
proposal.                                         Performance of inspectors will be continuously
monitored.
Management Information
Plans and targets articulated in  Progress has been made in data collection and analysis,   Continuous feedback from different stages of
education policy               but problems of data reliability remain - constraining the  planning-implementation-evaluation cycle will be
planning.                                         established to improve realism and viability of the
plan/target.
Data collection method,        Capacity of data processing improved at the center;  Measures to strengthen capacity at the district level
substance and quality improved  manual operation at districts reduces the reliability and    will be implemented under BESSIP.
speed.
Capacity for analysis increased  Benefit of training is marginalized due to high staff  Qualification of information analysis staff at various
tum-over. Staffing of Planning unit needs priority  levels of administration will be upgraded and further
attention.                                       training provided.
Public Resources
Sustainability of education    Despite increase in education share of the budget, it has   Medium-Term Expenditure Framework annually
system                         decreased in real terms. Further increase in allocation  prepared by MoE is being improved. GRZ is
coupled with sound macro management is essential for    committed to increasing education share to 25% and
sustainability.                                  within education maintaining basic education at 60%.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                   19
Table 7 Studies Included in the Project
1. Management of Education                           First phase completed
2. Strategies to Increase Access to Secondary Education and   First phase completed
Impact of Basic Schools
3. Financing of Education                             Not conducted
4. Teacher Training and Utilization                   First phase completed
5. Gender Issues in Education                         First phase completed
6. Primary and Secondary School Curriculum            First phase completed
7. Cholera and Environmental Health Issues in Schools  First phase completed
8. Development of Tertiary Education                  First phase completed
9. Community Participation                            First phase completed
10. Out-of-School Youth                               First phase completed
11. Transport and Communication Infrastructure        First phase completed
Purpose: A common purpose of these studies was to provide Government with comprehensive
information, strategic plans and alternative models and options for development. Findings from
the studies would form the basis for developing plans and policies in the education sector. In
particular, by contributing to a greater understanding of the sector and its workings, and by
accumulating a wide range of data, these would form the basis for future investment by the Bank
and other donors. Documentation developed during the studies would also serve as a valuable
source of materials for the training of education managers, planners and analysts.
Impact of Study: Results of the studies were used as background materials for developing the
national education policy, embodied in the policy paper: Educating Our Future: National Policy
on Education. But financial constraints - anticipated donor grants did not materialize - coupled
with weak commitment by the MoE prevented the follow-up and in-depth analysis intended for
each of the studies. Isolation of the study unit from MoE and UNZA led to weakened
sustainability of management structure and limited impact on strengthening MoE's analytical
capacity.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                          20
Table 8 Project Costs
(US$ million)
IDA   Zambia  Cofin  Total  IDA   Zambia'  Cofin 2   Total
Civil works: new schools,  11.6  1.9    0.0    13.5   15.4    1.1        3.6    20.1
extension/rehabilitation
Materials and funiiture  3.0     0.0    0.3     3.3    0.6    0.0        0.2      0.8
Education materials     10.3     0.2    0.0    10.5    6.8    0.04       0.0      6.8
Vehicles, other furniture    2.1  0.0    0.0    2.1    2.9    0.0        0.0      2.9
Consultancy, training,  4.2      0.0    4.6     8.8    3.9    0.0        2.7      6.6
studies
Incremental Operational    0.8   3.8    0.0     4.6    2.3    0.7        0.1      3.1
Costs
PPF refmancing           0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.1    0.0        0.0      0.1
Total          32.0     5.9    4.9    42.8   32.0    1.8         6.6    40.4
Source: SAR (p.32) and ISC-Category Recap
" ncludes GRZ and community contributions.
21As of January 26, 1999. One of the Dutch Trust Funds has not closed yet.
Table 9 Project Financing
(US$ million)
IDA                                     32.0                      32.0
Dutch Trust Fund (22855) 1               3.1                        2.9
Bilateral (unspecified)                  1.9
Zambia 2                                 5.9                        1.8
Dutch Trust Fund (22856)                 0.0                        3.7
Total                                   42.8                      40.4
"As of January 26, 1999.
21 Includes GRZ and community contributions.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                  21
Table 10 Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal, as it was not appropriate for this
project. Project Benefits were described as long-term improvements in human capital
through improved access to better quality education that would contribute to economic
development and a reduction in the overall poverty levels. Identified beneficiaries included
1.5 million primary school pupils and about 5,000 education managers. The project
supported measures for improvement in learning achievements (through provision of
teaching/leaming materials); improvement of leaming environment; elimination of delays in
start-up of secondary school classes; developing an appropriate examinations system for
monitoring performance of schools and reform in general; and improvement in management
at the school level. The project had a specific poverty dimension - locating the construction
of new schools in low-income peri-urban areas. Dynamism of population increase and
migration, coupled with the macro economic situation, makes the measurement of these
benefits difficult.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                                                             22
Table 11 Status of Legal Covenants
DCA                 Description of Cveinants              Covenant  Present  Original   Acttal .                  Comnntent
Setion                                                       Type      Status     Date       Date
3.01(b)    The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project  5         C        N/A        N/A      Complied with throughout the project.
Implementation Team with qualified staff in adequate
numbers.
3.04      The Borrower shall develop and adopt a strategy      12        CD       5/31/93     5/96    Embodicd in the govemment's policy
document for the development of primary and                                                 document, Educating our Future.
secondary school education.
3.05      The borrower shall: (a)furnish to IDA an action plan    9, 19, 12   CD, CP    1/31/94    10/15/94  Restmcturing and decentralization of
(a) & (b)  to improve Inspectorate in MoE and implement such                                           MOE have overtaken these covenants.
plan; (b) introduce a separate line item in MoE's                                 5/22/98   MOE restructuring plan approved by the
budget to fmance the activities of the Inspectorate.                                        cabinet in principle will strengthen the
functions of Inspectorate.
3.06      The Borrower shall furnish to IDA an action plan for  5        NC       5/31/94     N/A      This is being addressed under the overall
the reorganization of the responsibilities of the ZEPIU                                     ministerial reorganization plan.
and implement such action plan.
3.07      The Borrower shall progressively increase the       4, 11       C       1/31/95     N/A      Complied with annually during the
allocation to MOE at least to 15% of national budget,                                       project period, excluding the debt-service
and progressively increase the allocation to primary                                        ratio from the national budget.
education of MOE budget at least to 40%.
3.08      The Borrower shall make training of head teachers a  10        NC       5/31/95    5/22/98   Training was not made a condition of
condition of appointment.                                                                   appointment.
3.09 (a)   The Borrower and IDA shall jointly review programs,    1, 5, 9  C      10/31/93    N/A      Complied amnually.
plans of action and budget for the following fiscal                      and
year.                                                                  annually
3.09 (e)   The Borrower shall implement the recommendations     9        CP        N/A        N/A      Recommendations were only partially
of the Mid-term Review.                                                                     addressed. A number are being addressed
under BESSIP.
4.01      The Borrower shall maintain adequate records and     1, 9       C       annually   annually
accounts and furnish to IDA certificd copies of audit.
Covenant type:                                                                           Present status
I = Accounts/audit                     I0 = Project implementation not covered by 1-9   C  = covenant complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                 11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budget or other resource  CD = complied with after delay
5 = Management aspects of the project or    allocation                                   CP  complied with partially
executing agency                    12 = Sectoral or cross sectoral policy/regulatory/  NC = not complied with
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting       institutional action                        N/A= not applicable



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    23
Table 12 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual statements
Table 13 Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Staff Weeks    US$ (1090)    Staff Weeks    US$ ('000) 1/
Preparation - Appraisal                                131.3          342.8
Negotiations - Board                                    20.8           54.4
Supervision               122            392.8        149.1           489
Completion                 21.92/         27.6         11.3 2'         14.7
Total                     124            399.2        303.8           902.7
1/ Includes Labor and Travel
2/ As of 1/27/99



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                                                          24
Table 14 Bank Resources - Missions
Stage ~.troje~t MntW   ~sim E'Dfaysiin  Spe iaized stafj-                                             66f~nn~Rtn2  y~~o rflm
Impl.    Develop.
Status    Objectives
Through         6/91       9       180/9  EdS, TS             NR         NR      Decline in GRZ expenditures on Education. No education policy
Appraisal                                                                        changes to accommodate current economic/social scenario. Over-
involvement of GRZ in provision of basic services has
undermined self-sufficiency and community ownership. MOE
1/92      10      130/10  EdS, Pol, TS,      NR         NR      still needed to harmonize its strategies and share its vision with
SES, WSS                              the technical cadre. Some unrealistic and /or contradictory
promises made to citizens.
Appraisal      4-5/98      15     121/11  EdS, SSS, Fin,      NR        NR
through Board                             Pol
Board through
Effectiveness
Supervision    7-8/93      2       20/2   EdS, GS             NR        NR       Effectiveness delayed due to the conditions of effectiveness not
av.                                         met (counterpart fund allocation). The shift in policy direction,
away from primary education in favor of tertiary education, is
becoming clear.
9-10/93     7       70/7   EdS, SSA, SES,      2          2       Passing away of Project Coordinator. Inconsistencies in the
Fin, GS, TS, Pro                      withdrawal applications were resolved during the mission.
Escalation in building costs might necessitate building smaller
5-6/94  3  10/3   EdS, SSA, EdS  NR  NR  schools. Delay in Tender Board approval is affecting the civil
5-6/94      3       10/3   EdS, SSA? EdS      NR         NR      works implementation schedule. Uncertain situation at UNZA and
av.                                         dismissal of a lecturer who was coordinator of the policy studies
will slow the progress of the component.
9/94       2      4/2 av. EdS, Pol            S          S      An escalation in the costs of building materials and construction
is likely to cause a budget deficit on the Civil Work component -
even with cost reduction efforts, only 12 schools against 20
planned will be constructed. This has been exacerbated by the
govemment's failure to release counterpart funding to the project.
3/95       1       4/1   EdS                 NR         NR      Rising construction costs is forcing to reduce the schools to be
constructed from 20 to 14. Counterpart funding is lacking.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                                                        25
Table 14 Bank Resources: Mlissions (continued)
w~~~~~~~~0 Mg 
nmpl.    Develop.
Status   Objectives
3/95      1        4/1   EdS                 NR        NR      Rising construction costs is forcing to reduce the schools to be
constructed from 20 to 14. Counteipart funding is lacking.
2/96      3        12/3   EdS, EdS, Pol       S         S      By this mid-term review, only 7% of the target group was reached
av.                                         by management training; delay in resolving publishing rights with
ZEPH is causing delay in the textbook publishing component;
closer cooperation between ZERP and NESIS is required for
developing teachdr records; more emphasis is needed for
promotion of women; differences between IDA and National
Tender Board regulations should be resolved.
8/97      1         5    EdS                 NPR       NR       The mission was for the new task manager to get familiarized with
the project. A US dollar denominated contract for the civil work
using Dutch grant caused $0.6 million over-expenditure.
10/97      3       24/3  Imp, EdS, Fin        S          S      The project managernent have a clear but ambitious
implementation plan. It is possible that there could be some
shifting of expenditure, however, this is unlikely to delay closing.
4/98      7       108/7  EdS, HRE, GS,        S    s            It is possible that the contract for school furniture will not be
EMS, TS, SES,                         concluded before project closing. This would necessitate payment
Ar.                                  in the four-month grace period. The SRP over-expenditure is
being corrected through claims for justified expenditure on SPR2.
The correction might not be completed before closing.
Completion     11/98      1        2/1                       NR        NR
1/ Days in field varies by an individual member of the mission. The column shows total person-days spent / number of members.
2/ Performance ratings for some of the supervision missions were not given, hence not rated (NR).
Ar:  Architect                      GS:  Gender Specialist          Pro: Procurement Specialist      WSS: Water and Sanitation Specialist
EdS: Education Specialist           HRE: Human Resources Economist SES: School Examination Specialist
EMS: Education Mgmt Specialist      Imp: Implementation Specialist    SSA: Social Sector Analyst
Fin: Finance                        Pol: Policy Analyst             TS: Textbook Specialist



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    26
Appendix A
Aide-Memoires from the Final Supervision and
Implementation Completion Missions
April 29, 1998
I. Introduction
1.    A mission comprising Messrs. Paud Murphy (Senior Education Specialist, AFTHi1),
Kazuhiro Yoshida (Economist, AFTH3), Benjamin Makau (Netherlands Government Consultant,
Management Training), Roy Clarke (Netherlands Govermnent Consultant, Gender Issues),
Kebbede Friesenbet Buli (World Bank Consultant, Instructional Materials), Pieter Smoor (World
Bank Consultant, Construction), and Thomas Kellaghan (World Bank Consultant, Examinations),
worked in Zambia for the period April 14 - 30, 1998, to supervise the Zambia Education
Rehabilitation Project (ZERP) and to conduct evaluations of key components in readiness for the
Implementation Completion Report. The team was joined for the whole period by Dr. Geoffrey
Lungwangwa, Ministry of Education-designated coordinator of the Government's final report on
ZERP.
2.    Following a briefing by ZERP staff on 15 April, individual members of the team held
discussions in the Examinations Council of Zambia, University of Zambia, National Inservice
Teachers' College, Chalimbana, Curriculum Development Centre, Social Recovery Project,
Ministry of Finance, Zambia Education Publishing House, Permanent Secretary, Public Service
Management Division, Ministry of Works and Supply, a private book distributor and with a range
of officials in the Ministry of Education (MOE). One group also visited District Education
Offices, Charles Lwanga Teachers' College and schools in Southern Province, while another
group visited District Education Offices and schools in Copperbelt and Central Provinces.
3 .    The team is grateful to the Director of ZERP, current ZERP staff and all of those past
members of staff and to senior officers of MOE who made themselves available for consultations,
as well as to all of those met for their courtesy and cooperation. As is customary, this Aide-
Memoire is subject to confirmation or modification by the World Bank's Country Director for
Zambia.
II. Project Supervision
4     The implementation plan drawn up by ZERP staff during the October Supervision
Mission is mainly on track and the amended schedule is attached as Annex 1. The additional
grant of NLG 650,000 from the Netherlands Government to provide furniture for the six
remaining schools was approved in March and invitations to international tender issued in mid-
April. ZERP hopes to finalize the contract by mid-June and intends to advance the total cost
against a Bank guarantee by end-June. This schedule is very tight and delays will necessitate
World Bank approval to undertake expenditure beyond the closing date. The mission welcomes
the allocation by Ministry of Finance of the ZK 170,000,000 requested for ZERP expenditure in
1998: this has not been made available by MOE to the project. MOE is urged to transfer these
fimds as quickly as possible to enable the project to complete its work. The mission is concemed
to note that the claims for justified expenditures are likely to exceed the October estimate of US$
306,000 (Annex 3, Aide Memoire, October 1997) and urges ZERP staff and MOE to determine



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    27
which of these should be paid. The mission again pointed out to ZERP, SRP and MOE that any
additional expenditure over the Credit and Grant limits must be paid for by the Government.
5.    ZERP staffing levels are as planned: the Director, Financial Controller, Secretary and
Driver are in post until June 30, 1998; all other staff completed contracts by December, 1997. The
mission was pleased to learn that the problem concerning perceived remuneration anomalies for
ZERP senior staff was reviewed and resolved by Government Republic of Zambia (GRZ). The
mission is concerned to note that drivers and other support staff are now complaining about their
severance and financial arrangements. It is clear that none of these issues would have arisen had
there been standard, transparent conditions of service common to all Bank Projects in Zambia and
the mission again urges the Coordinator of World Bank Programs, Ministry of Finance, to
conduct an examination of how this might be achieved.
6.    The mission is pleased to note that a revised contract has been signed with the
Association of Canadian Community Colleges and congratulates both sides for the manner in
which these negotiations were conducted. The savings from the contract renegotiation and the
cancellation of the in-Canada training course (approximately US$ 175,255) are being applied to
complete school construction and to meet claims for justified expenditures arising from additional
site works on two of the school sites.
7.    The mission had discussions with the Coordinator and staff of the Social Recovery
Project (SRP) regarding over-expenditures on the components being implemented by SRP.
Following the October mission, the Director of ZERP wrote to SRP listing the agreed expenditure
ceilings and requesting SRP not to exceed these ceilings. Despite this, the request for
reimbursement in February, 1998, included an amount in excess of the ceiling for one of the
categories. In March, the loans officer in the World Bank sent a telex to SRP pointing out that the
undisbursed free fufnds were XDR 24,034.47 and that the balance on the special account should be
reimbursed to IDA when expenditures totaling this amount had been undertaken. Despite these
communications, SRP has undertaken additional expenditure totaling $193,934.32 on the
categories and is now claiming these. One cause of this problem appears to be that the SRP was
not monitoring specific expenditure headings but was depending on the Bank to recover the
advance to the special account and advise them when credit funds were running low.
8.    The mission notes that all surplus vehicles and computers have now been transferred to
the MOE and reassigned, while furniture is being transferred. The remaining items (one vehicle,
three computers, assorted fumiture) will be handed over in July. In the meantime, ZERP staff are
collecting the records of all activities under the project. This will also be handed over in July,
1998, and kept in MOE.
9.    Project activities are now drawing to a close: construction work is complete on the
Documentation Centre, though fmrniture has not been provided, and almost complete on Nyumba
Yanga school; the last group of Headteachers has completed their training course in the teachers'
colleges; the Grade Four Competency Tests have been trialled and computers purchased for the
Examinations Council of Zambia; and the textbooks have been delivered to all except three
Districts. Computerization of teachers' records is underway, but networking cannot be started
until computer equipment has been installed.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                     28
III. Evaluation Team Observations
10.   Project Objectives. ZERP was a well-conceived project aimed at critical areas of
Zambia's education system. The three main objectives: (i) arrest further decline in education
quality; (ii) increase access to education and improve the learning environment; and (iii) increase
the capacity of the education sector to manage an increasingly complex sector in a context of
greatly circumscribed resources; were clearly stated and realistic and the activities were important
for Zambia's education sector. No monitorable development objectives were set for the project
and it is not possible for the evaluation team (the team) to state categorically that each objective
was achieved or not achieved - a number of beneficiary impact studies would be needed to
ascertain this. However, based on its limited observations and discussions, the team makes the
following observations. The project's support for purchase, supply and delivery of educational
materials is likely to have had (and to continue to have) a positive impact on education quality,
while the work to strengthen the Examinations Council of Zambia (ECZ) provides the potential
for future positive impact on quality. Regarding the achievement of objective (ii), the project has
contributed approximately 32,000 additional places for students (in 19 newly constructed and 33
rehabilitated schools), and enhanced the leaming environment in these 52 schools, and regarding
objective (iii), the project trained over 95% of the Headteachers of lower, middle and basic
schools (3,992 trainees in all of whom 12% were female) and 142 senior education officials (of
whom 30% were female), and the trained staff appear to be putting their training to good use. In
addition, a Documentation Centre has been provided for MOE records and teachers' records are
being improved.
11.   Project Design. Regarding the design of project management and implementation, the
Steering Committee and individual component committees were established. The Steering
Committee was expected to meet every three months but has not met since October, 1996. The
individual component committees met infrequently also. The team recognizes the intention in
1993 to locate project management within the Zambia Education Projects Implementation Unit
(ZEPIU) and subsequently to have ZEPIU (and the project management) taken over by the
relevant line agencies within MOE. However, a decision was subsequently taken to locate the
management of the project outside MOE. Even with hindsight, the team cannot form ajudgment
on the advisability of this decision. On the one hand, the decision ensured that the project
disbursed speedily, on the other hand the arrangement did not sufficiently build up ownership and
capacity within MOE and may not have facilitated sustainability of some project effects. The
decision to establish two special accounts, one for management by MPU, created a difficulty for
overall monitoring as MPU did not report on its activities to ZERP and did not consult ZERP on
expenditures or reallocations. This has caused the problem referred to in paragraphs 4 and 7.
12.   Project Management. Regarding the performance of the project management, the team
recognizes the major achievements of ZERP, listed elsewhere in this Aide Memoire, and the
commitment and expertise required to attain these. In particular, the team believes that most of
the discreet components were well managed and financial controls were in place. The team also
commends ZERP management for a number of initiatives, including the awarding of a prize for
maintenance to ZERP schools, the development of a training film, the decision to purchase and
distribute textbooks off the shelf, and the entrepreneurial efforts to distribute the most recently
purchased textbooks when resources were very scarce. The team is concerned that management
did not establish an adequate system for monitoring project activities and therefore did not
institute corrective measures in a number of instances, particularly with regard to the contract for
technical assistance for education management training, and in regard to early identification of the



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                  29
funding shortfall. The team is also of the view that there was room for more adaptive
management and strategic planning in pursuit of the broad objectives while implementing
individual components, particularly as funds became scarce. The team notes the concerns
expressed by project management regarding the differences between World Bank thresholds and
GRZ thresholds and the perception that Bank procurement procedures changed without notifying
the project.
13.   Project Financing. Regarding ZERP financing, the current expenditure (April 1998) in
relation to the anticipated expenditure in the Staff Appraisal Report is shown in Annex 2. As
pointed out in the Aide Memoire of October, 1997, this indicates a significant increase in planned
expenditure on construction and project management and a decrease in expenditure on books.
The finance available to ZERP changed since signing owing to a smaller than anticipated
allocation from some bilateral donors and a new grant from the Netherlands to build schools
(supplemented in March, 1998). The causes of the financing gap are: underfunding by the
Government of Zambia; the fall in the value of the Guilder; the decline in the dollar value of the
SDR; the increase in ZERP staffing requirements necessitated by the decision to delink ZERP
from ZEPIU in June 1993; and the increase in the cost of construction.
14.   Instructional Materials. Compared to the pre-ZERP school years, the instructional
materials component of ZERP has improved the availability of instructional materials. The
number of textbooks procured has reached 3,724,000. Achievements are equally high with regard
to provision of teaching kits for primary schools (100%) and library books for TTCs (91%). The
number of teachers' guides produced is only 50% of the plan. The weak link in the book
provision chain was the distribution: textbooks did not reach schools on time. The book policy
although drafted has not yet been made official. Using private publishers and distributors
contributed towards increasing efficiency in the implementation of the project component.
15.   Construction and Rehabilitation. To an important extent, the Construction and
Rehabilitation of Schools component of ZERP achieved its objectives: 19 new schools were
constructed and 33 existing ones rehabilitated and extended. In total 779 new classrooms or more
than 32000 new school places were created. Preventive maintenance programs are in place and
community involvement with the schools, particularly those extended and rehabilitated by SRP
has greatly improved. The quality of the design and construction is generally good. The project
produced 220 classrooms less than envisaged and construction cost of new schools was
substantially higher than foreseen. Triple shifts for lower primary were still found in all schools
visited and accessibility is not necessarily much improved in the most populous, poorest urban
areas. Maintenance awareness and practice in the schools will need continued monitoring and
strengthening by the Ministry.
16.   Education Management Training. Regarding the Education Management Training
(EMT) component of ZERP, over 95% of primary and basic school headteachers and about 45%
of inspectors and education officers identified as needing training have been trained in key areas
of educational planning and management (including finance and other resources, govemance,
management of information, human resource development, and gender relations) and some
aspects of the teaching-learning process. Discussions and observations during the mission
indicated that the training has salutary outcomes especially with regard to systematic collection
and utilization of data, financial accounting, record-keeping, improved collegiality among school
staff, school development planning, school-community relations, and enhanced gender awareness.
However, there are indications that the EMT curriculum, as originally planned, (a) needed more



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                      30
time than was allocated; and (b) could have included effective teaching-learning including
activities aimed at redressing gender asymmetries.
17.   Management of Information. The Management of Information component was
designed to contribute to increased management capacity of MOE through: (i) policy studies; (ii)
improving the MOE database; (iii) improved teachers' records; and (iv) the creation of a
documentation center (with UNESCO). ZERP completed the first phase of 10 policy studies on
key educational issues. The second phase of the studies was not conducted. Study reports were
made available as reference materials in formulating the govemment's education policy
document: "Educating Our Future" and for the initial studies for the Education Sector Investment
Program. These study reports did not serve as the basis for future donor-financed projects in the
sector, and were used to a limited extent as inputs for designing training materials for education
staff. Objective (ii) was not achieved as, following the mid-term review, work on the MOE
database was terminated. ZERP supported the computerization of teachers' records, which, in the
team's view, is still at the elementary stage. Procurement of computer equipment that could
enable the networking of the information system is under way, and training of staff has to be
provided to operate the new system. The new filing system for teachers' records improved the
speed of response to queries concerning teachers' status. Training was provided for registry staff
at the headquarters and at the districts. As a part of MOE's management information database, a
Documentation Center was built by ZERP on the MOE premises. The link with UNESCO did not
materialize. Encouraging headway was made in collecting education-related documents, which
will also be made publicly available.
18.   Examinations. The activities of the Examination component of ZERP were related to the
ZERP objective of arresting further decline in education quality. These included improving the
quality of examinations (achieved through item-writing training and the use of tables of
specification), improving the efficiency of the system, and the establishment of procedures to
ensure that gender issues are taken into account in exam setting. A number of the activities
designed to achieve the ZERP objective have not been completed (the provision of feedback to
schools on examination performance; competency testing at Grade 4; and the development of
ECZ's capacity to carry out analysis and research). The activities have resulted in the
development of a basic infrastructure, involving personnel and equipment, which has the potential
to move the education system towards the objectives set for ZERP, and for the operation of ECZ.
19.    Gender. The activities of the gender component were concerned with incorporating a gender-
oriented element within each of the other five Project components. These gender elements were mainly
concemed with providing gender training for Head Teachers, District Officials, Cuniculum
Development Specialists and Examination Officers. The Policy Studies component included a report on
'Gender Issues in Education'. Headteachers visited by the team had appreciated their gender training,
and showed interest in addressing gender issues in their schools. However, there was need for more
Project activities to follow-up after training. This need for better follow-up is especially important in the
area of instructional materials and exam questions, to ensure that gender criteria are applied at each
stage of the development process. The fuller integration of the gender component within the Project was
hampered by the lack of a Gender Coordinator to supervise and monitor progress in the different
elements of the Project.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                   31
IV. Recommendations for Continuity
20.   A number of activities planned under ZERP could not be completed owing to funding
shortages. These include: construction of a school in Bauleni; purchasing and distribution of
textbooks in social studies, environmental science and mathematics as well as supplementary
reference materials for mini-libraries, and training for registry staff and ECZ staff. It is
encouraging that the Norwegian government has agreed to print and distribute the textbooks and
the Japanese government is considering funding the construction of Bauleni school.
21.   A number of other activities under ZERP are at a critical stage of development and
require ongoing support to enable them to achieve their full potential. These include work on
teachers' records, the competency testing at Grade 4, the provision of feedback to schools on
examination performance, training of teachers in the use of new instructional materials,
addressing gender issues in the preparation of textbooks for the remaining grades which include
grade 6 and above, and training of District Education Officers and Inspectors. The teachers'
records need further work to enhance reliability of the information, to shorten time required for
the updating, and to link (or preferably integrate) the records with other existing information
systems. To complete preparation of Grade 4 competency testing will require additional funds
(estimated to be ZK 50 million): these would cover the cost of materials and technical assistance
for inservice for all Grade 4 teachers, to be provided in cooperation with AIEMS. Additional
funds (estimated to be ZK 150 million) will also be required to produce the materials necessary to
test all Grade 4 pupils and for the computer analysis of results. In subsequent years, this
important teacher-development activity will require to be mainstreamed and supported by regular
budget allocations. In order to provide feedback to schools on examination performance, ECZ
now has the capacity to carry out item analysis and to interpret data on candidate performance,
though the latter would be strengthened by the presence of individuals with appropriate skills in
measurement and assessment. However, it would need budget support to dedicate an individual
to coordinating this work and to meeting the costs of printing and distribution. An additional
printing machine will be required to print feedback information. Approximately 55% of the
DEOs and school Inspectors have received no training. It will be necessary to plan and cost this
training.
22.   Finally, there are a number of activities which have been completed under ZERP but
which offer interesting opportunities for extension in a modified form. For example, while ZERP
has successfully trained almost 4,000 Headteachers, there has been considerable attrition and
therefore there is need to expose newly appointed Headteachers to Education Management
Training. ZERP materials and the methodology to continue this work are now available. The
team recommends that a small study be undertaken to determine the number of Headteachers
appointed each year and an activity designed to provide training for these in Chalimbana or
another college. The ministry will also need to monitor and strengthen maintenance awareness
and practice in all schools through continued training of teachers, regular inspections and
incentives in order to preserve the gains made in this area.
V. Observations for the Future
23.   The team is aware of the development of BESIP and wishes to make a number of
observations which may be worthy of consideration. First, ZERP shows the importance of
keeping the overarching educational goals (in the case of BESIP: increasing access and improving
children's learning outcomes) firmly in mind when allocating resources initially and when



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                   32
reallocating during implementation. While flexibility based on agreed procedures to alter
proposed activities is desirable, a mechanism should be in place in BESIP to ensure that activities
are not excluded by default. Second, BESIP procurement procedures should harmonize the
thresholds between the Zambia National Tender Board, the Ministry of Education Tender
Committee, and the cooperating partners. Third, the time lag between completion of program
design and implementation should be reflected in budgeting.
24.   The time available to the team did not allow for in-depth discussions with a representative
sample of parents, teachers, Headteachers and DEOs. It would be useful to carry out studies of the
impact of some of the ZERP components on classroom practice and community involvement in
schools: the Education Management Training is one possibility. The team also wishes to observe
that Planning within MOE should, in addition to physical and financial planning, be concemed
with planning for quality enhancement.
25.   Finally, the team understands that BESIP preparatory activities will require equipment,
vehicles and skilled staff. The team urges MOE to consider utilizing the equipment and vehicles
within ZERP for this purpose. The team also considers that the expertise gained by the senior
staff of ZERP would be an asset to BESIP preparation and implementation and urges MOE to
plan how to utilize this expertise.
Implementation Completion Mission Aide Memoire
November 1998
1     MT. Noel Lindsay (Bank Consultant) visited Zambia from November 10 to 20, 1998 to
carry out activities leading to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). During the entire
period of the mission, he was accompanied by Clement Siamatowe (Social Sector Officer,
Resident Mission). Mr. Grey Mulomba (former Director, ZERP) joined the mission during the
tour of institutions built by ZERP both on the Copperbelt and in Lusaka.
2.    During the mission, the team held discussions with the Permanent Secretary and senior
officials from: Ministry of Education; the Examinations Council; Social Recovery Project;
primary schools that received assistance from the project; District Education Office, Lusaka;
former key employees of ZERP; the Dutch embassy; AIEMS (a special project funded by DFID
aimed at improving the teaching of English, Mathematics and Science); and Dr. Geoffrey
Lungwangwa, Ministry of Education Coordinator of the GRZ final report on ZERP.
3.    The mission had the benefit of the Ministry of Education's own implementation
completion report. It noted from the report and from discussions that the Ministry is generally
satisfied with the outcome of the project, in terms of progress towards achieving the objectives of
the project. It noted the positive outcomes which include:
the new schools and renovated schools are acknowledged as creating a very positive
learning environment in poor areas. They are encouraging increased participation and
retention of girls at all grade levels, vandalism is reduced or eliminated and communities
are participating very effectively in the running of the schools through the PTAs;
*     the management training provided to headteachers under the EMT program has been
greatly welcomed by all, with the wish expressed that such training be continued;



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                   33
*     the training provided to education officers and inspectors also provided beneficial but
needs some additions for future training to cater more fully for the pedagogical needs of
inspectors;
*     excellent progress has been made in strengthening the Examinations Council and in
improvements to examinations, but follow-up work and additional funding are necessaiy
to complete the task;
much work has also been done in providing educational materials, but better storage and
distribution arrangements need to be put in place, particularly in rural areas, and training
provided to teachers in the classroom use of textbooks.
4.    The mission noted the Ministry's concerns that necessary capacity building for the
Ministry had not occurred under the project. They did not consider that they were involved in the
design of the project and, as a result, had no sense of ownership. Location of ZERP outside of the
Ministry had contributed to this, though it was accepted that the arrangements made had led to
timely implementation of the project.
5.    In noting the Ministry's concerns, the mission hopes, and recommends, that the Ministry
will assume full ownership of the project, so to ensure necessary follow-up and continuance of the
project activities and that the Ministry will gain the maximum benefits from the project.
6.    The mission is currently completing its report to take account of all of its findings in the
field and the many fruitful discussions. The mission wishes to thank the Permanent Secretary and
all others with whom discussions were held for their courtesies and their invaluable assistance to
the mission.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    34
Appendix B
Ministry of Education
Implementation Completion Report
Executive Summary
Lusaka, September 1998
1.0   Introduction
ZERP was planned with four interrelated components namely (i) quality renewal, whose
objective was to support the provision of leaming and teaching materials and improvements in
examination quality management; (ii) rehabilitation and construction of physical facilities in
primary schools whose objective was to increase access and improve the education environment;
iii) planning and management which was directed at strengthening professional and
administrative support to teachers and to schools (iv) information management system including
a system for improving teachers records and policy studies which could research and generate data
essential to planning further development of the sector.
The immediate beneficiaries of ZERP were 1.5 million primary school pupils and 5000 education
managers. The outcomes of the project was envisaged to be (i) the elimination of the triple and
quadruple shifts, (ii) removal of the bottlenecks at the examinations council, (iii) the improvement
in learning achievements through provision of 5.3 million textbooks, teachers guides, and basic
teaching materials, and (iv) improvements in equity by improving the education opportunities of
girls and children in low income areas.
2.0   Implementation Experience And Results
2.1   School Construction And Rehabilitation
Visible achievements were made by ZERP in school construction and rehabilitation. In
quantitative terms, 19 new schools have been constructed out of the targeted twenty schools,
and 33 schools have been rehabilitated and extended. A total of 779 new classrooms have been
created and all of these are in disadvantaged low income peri-urban areas. The total gains in
school places among children from low income areas brought by the construction and
rehabilitation and extension program is 38,000 in five years. These are remarkable
achievements and they have resulted in extension of educational opportunities to children in
undeserved areas. The school construction and rehabilitation component of ZERP has made the
following significant observable impact:
  the schools have created education opportunities for children from low income areas
and they have contributed to reductions in long distances covered by the children.
  the schools have contributed to decongestion of the other schools in their vicinity
resulting in reductions in the classroom sizes from 60 to 40 pupils per class.
*  the schools have contributed to reductions in the number of shifts in a few nearby
schools thereby increasing the learning time for children.
*  water and sanitation conditions in all the new schools and the rehabilitated and



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    35
extended schools have greatly assisted in reducing the risk of environmentally related
illnesses like cholera or diarrhea among school children.
* the Micro-projects Unit has been able to train district teams in school preventive
maintenance which will greatly contribute to the sustainability of the standards in
physical infrastructure set by the project.
* the creation of new classrooms has increased girls' access to primary education and
their school attendance has significantly improved.
* the design of the school buildings has reduced vandalism to school buildings and
enhanced security.
* improvements in hygiene have curtailed the spread of cholera and other waterbome
diseases which led to frequent school closures.
* the new schools and the rehabilitation and extension of dilapidated school buildings
have resulted in improvements in the school-community relationships, high morale of
teachers and better school environments.
* girls have benefited from availability of adequate sanitary facilities, water and
incinerators and provision of privacy for those at adolescent age.
* communities have a sense of ownership of the schools.
* the use of school buildings as boundary walls is cheaper than building independent
boundary walls.
* the supply of furniture has improved teaching-leaming environment in classrooms.
It was evidently clear from the work undertaken by ZERP that the Ministry of Education does not
have the necessary expertise to match up with the skill and technical competence which a complex
building program demands. ZERP did not assist in building the capacity of buildings staff within
the Ministry of Education. This weakness has to be addressed if the Ministry has to develop the
capacity to prepare and manage infrastructure projects of such magnitude as ZERP.
The major problem experienced during the construction and rehabilitation/extension program was
the constant fluctuation in prices of materials leading to increases in the actual costs of the
buildings in the end. There is need for efficiency in operation in order to beat the fluctuation in the
market prices of items that have to be procured in local currency. Given the constant fluctuation in
the value of the local currency, it is better to make all quotations of building materials in the Us
dollars. Over designed external finishes contributed to increase in costs.
Other problems experienced in the construction and rehabilitation/extension component are:
* The quality of rehabilitation and extensions with local community participation could
have been better and up to acceptable standards.
* The sense of ownership in new schools built by contractors is low because of poor
community participation in the construction process.
* There were cost overruns of 13 to 30% in the new schools due to under provision in
the budget at appraisal, inadequate soil investigations and fluctuations which were not
budgeted for.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                      36
* Preventive maintenance in some schools do not seem to function effectively due to
lack of knowledge, expertise and guidance.
* Further security has been found necessary and some PTAs have embarked on making
openings, burglar proofs and raising the height of boundary walls.
* There are water supply problems in those schools connected to Council water sources
because of erratic supplies.
* The six months defects liability period is too short because schools have experienced
minor faults requiring the attention of contractors shortly after the elapse of the
period.
The following recommendations are important in future construction and rehabilitation work:-
* Expertise and capacity of buildings officers in the Ministry of Education should be
enhanced in order to effect adequate supervision of construction work.
*  There should be a programme to sensitise and involve local communities in new
schools built by contractors.
* Cost plans should be established in order that they are used for cost controlling during
construction process.
- Soil investigations by competent engineers should be thorough and responsibility for
costs of un-professional work should be borne by the engineers undertaking the work.
* Adequate provision should be made for price increases in materials and labour from
appraisal to anticipated completion date when using the local currency.
* Where part or the whole contract sum is payable in US dollars or equivalent,
fluctuations should not be allowed for the dollar component.
* There should be strict financial control by qualified and professional quantity
surveyors using established plans and materials schedules.
* There must be a specific component for preventive maintenance equal in weight to
the other components in order that school buildings do not dilapidate in all new
construction programmes.
* School designs and layout should use the building structures as boundary walls in
order to save money by not building independent boundary walls. Leaving of
openings should be an integral part of the design
* It is imperative that borehole supply be included in civil works in all cases to reduce
dependency on erratic council water supply.
* The six months defects liability period should be increased to 12 months to ensure
that buildings are tested under use and faults resulting from poor materials and or
construction are repaired by the contractor.
* Water and toilet facilities should be provided within the administration blocks.
* It is cheaper in the long to use facing bricks to school walls as these only require
cleaning and practically no maintenance



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                  37
2.2   Education Management Training
Education Management Training for headteachers, education officers and inspectors was a new
activity within the educational system. Promotion to administrative positions within the system
has been undertaken without consideration of administrative training received. The Education
Management Training conducted under ZERP happens to be the only such kind of training
which most of the headteachers, inspectors and education officers might have received since they
were promoted to these positions.
The headteacher training component was able to train 3,992 headteachers out of the estimated
4,000. The total number of Inspectors and Education officers who received training in education
management was 142 that is 69 Inspectors and 73 Education Officers. The task of training
education managers revealed the gender imbalance in management positions within the
education sector. Out of 3,992 headteachers trained only 483 or 12% were females. Among the
142 inspectors and Education Officers trained, the number of females was only 34. There are
more males in education management positions within the education sector.
Localization of the Education Management Training courses in the Teacher Training Colleges
and the School of Education at the University of Zambia has contributed to build capacity in the
institutions. Inclusion of a module on Gender Issues contributed significantly to gender
sensitization among headteachers, inspectors and education officers. The gender sensitization
workshops conducted under this sub-component strengthened the gender awareness among
education managers. The workshops contributed in creating a pool of gender trainers in the
Ministry of Education from the headquarters to the provincial level.
The EMT has made significant impact on the Education Officers and the Headteachers.
Indications so far are that both categories of staff are now conscious about the importance of
management in the education system. There is more appreciation of the significance of
management principles like efficiency, effectiveness, participation, delegation, vision creation
and information generation and the factors that contribute to their achievement by those that
attended the EMT program.
In terms of the wider reforms of decentralizing education, the EMT program has made a
significant impact in making the Education Officers develop awareness of what is expected of
them as people at the point of educational delivery. In particular, there is a general awareness on
their part about the significance of such principles as community participation in education,
accountability, innovation, and creativity in decision-making at the local level and gender
awareness. The Education managers are making efforts to implement these principles at the
district level and in schools.
Some of the observable impact of the EMT program for the Education Officers include the
following:
* The DEOs have formulated deliberate policy of gender balance in management
positions in the schools. If a school is headed by a male, efforts are being made to
appoint a female as deputy head. The only drawback as reported by the DEOs is that
there are very few female teachers with the necessary qualifications for management
positions and that most females are not willing to work in rural areas.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                     38
* Community participation in the affairs of schools is given special consideration by
the DEOs. Communities are assisted to be aware that schools belong to them.
Community seminars on issues that affect schools are being organized by the DEOs.
 The DEOs are paying special attention to educational statistical information for their
districts. Most pertinent data on schools in the districts are displayed on the walls in
their offices.
* The DEOs are giving special attention to the qualities of headteachers that are posted
in the new ZERP schools. It is only those school heads with good track records in
effective management who are appointed to head the new ZERP schools. This move
will assist in creating model schools in the districts.
Some of the benefits of the EMT program as experienced by the school heads include:
* Most of the school heads are more open in accepting their weaknesses. They do
accept that they had not been trained in education management before the
introduction of the EMT program. They easily acknowledge that they were promoted
into headship positions without prior training in management and that they were
running the schools on trial and error.
* Changing their management styles. Most of the school heads do confess that they
managed the schools single handedly. A major change that has taken place after the
EMT, is their willingness to delegate responsibilities to the Deputy heads and the
senior teachers.
* Changes in attitudes towards the ownership of the schools. The school heads are of
the view that they have changed from viewing the schools as their institutions to that
of looking at the school as a community institution. This change in attitude is making
headteachers involve communities in the various activities of the schools. The school-
community relationship is changing. There is evidence of community presence in the
schools through the PTAs which have become more active.
* Headteachers are co-opting the PTA members on various committees of the schools.
Women are also taking an active part on the PTA executive committees and the
school related activities undertaken by the communities.
The observed improvement in the school-community relationships is a result of changes in the
Headteachers' management styles because of the EMT program.
There are improvements in the collection of key education data in schools. School heads do accept
the value of having easily accessible information on their schools. All the school heads are
making conscious efforts of collecting vital statistics about their schools and displaying them on
notice boards in their offices.
There is evidence of school based gender training being organized by headteachers in some
schools. Headteachers and Education Officers at the district level do willingly confess that the
gender module which they took during the EMT helped them to discover gender biases which
they had earlier taken for granted. As a demonstration of gender awareness old practices that were
biased against girls are being changed. Cleaning duties in schools are for example no longer only



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                   39
for girls and the positions of school monitors are evenly distributed between boys and girls.
Headteachers are making conscious efforts to improve their school environments. There seems to
be a new spirit of school environment improvement in most schools. The improvements in the
school surroundings can be attributed to the effectiveness of school management which are
instilling a sense of discipline and school ownership in the pupils and the teachers. Cleanliness is
also being maintained in the classrooms. School heads are establishing school maintenance
committees on which the teachers, pupils and parents serve.
In general, indications are that most schools are better managed now because of the management
skills and knowledge acquired by the school heads.
A major concern in the Education Management Training is that the Deputy heads and the senior
teachers who are likely successors in headship positions have not been availed opportunities for
training in education management. In future, opportunities for training in education management
should give special attention to the training of younger officers.
The ability of the schools to manage the money being collected from the communities is another
major concem. Parental financial contribution has increased in most schools. This is likely to
result in problems of accountability because the teachers appointed as financial officers have not
been trained in financial management. Ordinary teachers that are being appointed as financial
officers in schools should be trained in financial management.
Experiences from implementing this sub-component indicate that logistics were difficult to
manage by the Training Coordinator alone. The sub-component was wide in coverage and the
Training Coordinator should have been assisted in arriving at cost effective implementation
strategies that could have offset the costs of hotel accommodation for the Inspectors and
Education Officers training at UNZA and engagement of the Association of Canadian Community
Colleges as a Technical Assistant (TA) at the end of the project.
2.3    Education Materials
Some achievements were made in the area of education materials. In quantitative tenns, 2,316,000
textbooks were printed under the ZERP and ZEMP arrangements. This represented 88% of the
targeted figure of 2,800,000. NORAD is currently assisting in meeting the shortfall in school
textbooks.
The shortfall in the supply of textbooks resulted from lack of reprints of old titles under the
Zambia Education Publishing House (ZEPH) copyright. ZEPH did not see it right for ZERP to
reprint materials whose publishing rights belonged to it.
Most of the textbooks printed under ZERP were done following a competitive bidding system in
line with the dictates of a liberalized market. Opening up the printing of textbooks to a liberal
market system greatly assisted in procurement of books on time.
ZERP managed to assist the Curriculum Development Center (CDC) develop manuscripts for
textbooks in Home Economics, Environmental Science, and Social Studies. The number of
textbooks and teachers guides developed for these subjects was 1,699,000. In addition, new
syllabuses in these subjects were developed. Another activity undertaken at CDC was the review



Zarnbia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                     40
of syllabuses in Music, Physical Education, Industrial Arts, and Religious Education. A
significant achievement of the project was extension of support to subjects that usually least
attract external aid.
ZERP provided gender sensitivity training for members of staff at the Curriculum Development
Center and a criteria list for appraising gender sensitivity in textbooks was developed. Books
procured by ZERP were assessed for gender sensitivity and they are sensitive in language and
illustrations.
Efforts were made by the project to distribute mini-libraries and basic teaching kits to schools. A
total of 10,000 supplementary readers and reference books for the mini-libraries for all schools
and the primary teachers' colleges were distributed. In addition, basic teaching kits consisting of
wall maps, globes, chalkboard and equipment were distributed.
The distribution of education materials to schools was equally subjected to a competitive bidding
system. This resulted in the engagement of private transport companies in the distribution of
education materials to the District Education Offices throughout the country. The distribution of
education materials to schools was however not completed. Some education materials are still
marooned in the warehouse in Lusaka waiting distribution to schools.
Special mention should be made of the condition of education materials in the new ZERP schools
and the schools expanded and rehabilitated under ZERP. Education materials in these schools are
not considered a problem. The new ZERP schools together with the rehabilitated and expanded
schools happen to have the textbooks and other education materials they need. Every new ZERP
school has a storeroom for storing the books and education materials. Indications so far are that
the books are not marooning in the store rooms. They are being used by the pupils and teachers.
All the ZERP schools have devised systems of book distribution to pupils through the senior
teachers. The practice in every ZERP school is that pupils are made to replace the book they lose
by buying a new one. A culture of accountability is emerging in the schools. The textbook pupil
ratios in subjects like English, Mathematics and Science in most ZERP schools range from 1:1 to
1:3. With respect to the new schools, ZERP succeeded in supplying education materials to them.
It is in these schools that the impact of the education materials on the quality of education has to
be monitored overtime.
While significant effort was made to physically distribute books from Lusaka to the districts, very
little attention was given to the training of teachers in the use of the books. This shows that
procurement and distribution of education materials and monitoring to ensure their physical
presence in schools is such a colossal task which requires special attention. It cannot be
accomplished satisfactorily if it is combined with other activities. The objectives set for ZERP
were therefore rather too ambitious for a five year project.
Experiences generated from ZERP in the distribution of education materials to schools show a
significant difference between the urban and rural areas. Distribution of education materials
within the urban areas is not a major problem. Most schools in urban areas are in a position to
collect education materials from the District Education Office using their own means. Schools in
the urban and peri-urban areas are satisfied with the level of education materials they have. A
problem that is in these schools is lack of effective utilization of the books because the teachers
have not been given orientation in how to use them.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                      41
It is in the rural areas where major problems are experienced in the distribution of education
materials. Lack of roads, long distances from schools to the District Education Office, lack of
suitable vehicles in some districts and impassable roads are some of the factors that make
distribution of books to schools in rural areas very difficult. Indications so far are that education
materials distributed by ZERP are still marooned in District Education Offices in some rural
districts. The problem can partly be attributed to lack of serious attention to the distribution of
education materials to schools on the part of some District Education Officers. Distribution of
examination papers for example is conducted with a lot of seriousness. Major efforts are taken to
ensure that transport is mobilized to distribute the examination papers to schools in the remotest
areas before the examinations start. This spirit of seriousness is not given to the distribution of
education materials.
Attention to the difficulties of distribution of education materials in rural areas is a problem that
deserves special consideration. There is no single distribution system that can be considered
workable for every case. Community support in the distribution of education materials using
available local means of transportation will, in certain cases, have to be relied upon.
2.4    Examinations
Several achievements were made in the examinations component. The major achievement of the
project was in the area of institutional capacity building at the Examinations Council of Zambia.
The installation of a main computer, four personal computers and four optical mark readers has
contributed to improvements in the release of Grade 7 examination results. Since the installation
of the computer hardware, Grade 7 examinations are now released before the beginning of the first
school term. This means that Grade 8 pupils are now able to be in school at the beginning of the
school year unlike in the past when the entire term would elapse without those selected in Grade 8
being in school.
Another achievement made by ZERP was the enhancement of skills and competence of the
Examination Council of Zambia Staff through various long and short-term courses. Because of
these training opportunities afforded to staff, ECZ now has the capacity to undertake item analysis
and interpret data on the performance of the candidates. The training of local setters of Grade 12
examination has resulted in the localization of the examination in Geography, Chemistry,
Mathematics, Principles of Accounts, Physics, History, Religious Education, Biology, English
language and Literature in English. Because of the security measures carried out with ZERP
support, examination malpractices have been brought under control at the ECZ.
Not much was achieved in this component by way of gender awareness promotion. The only
visible intervention was the provision of a gender criteria list in the formulation of examination
questions. The national competence assessment at Grade 4 is likely to assist in understanding the
imbalance between boys and girls in performance.
However, vital activities like competence assessment at Grade 4; feedback on examination
analysis to schools; procurement of library books and periodicals, fire proof safes, printing
machine and binder, statistical packages and steel cabinets and; training of the Measurement
Research Officer and Computer Manager were not undertaken during the project period because
of the shortage of money. These activities are vital and should be carried out in future.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    42
2.5   Policy Studies
While it can be acknowledged that eleven preliminary surveys were conducted, this component
experienced more problems than anticipated. Some of the problems of the component included
low funding as a result of reluctance to finance the research activities by other co-financiers and
lack of institutional base within the Ministry of Education. Phase two of the component was not
undertaken. The preliminary survey reports did, however, come up with findings which were
made use of during the preparations of the National Education Policy document Educating Our
Future.
2.6    Gender
The gender sub-component happens to have been poorly conceptualized from the beginning. It
was conceptualized as a one off activity without any plans for continuation or integration into
ongoing or proposed programs. There was little interaction between ZERP and the Ministry of
Education programs dealing with gender like PAGE, AIEMS, and SHAPE. Although plans for the
organization of this component included the appointment of a gender counterpart in the Ministry
of Education, the establishment of Gender Coordinating Committees and training of trainers at
provincial, district and college levels, the implementation process showed a lot of inconsistencies.
The coordinating committee at the national level never really functioned nor did those at other
levels. There was no full time gender counterpart and those who acted in this role had heavy
responsibilities.
Even at the level of the EMT, gender was treated only in the gender module. Gender as an area
that cuts across other subjects was not included in the other modules. The headteachers and other
education officers were therefore not afforded opportunities to relate gender to other management
activities like human resource management, record keeping, school governance and so on.
2.7    Teachers' Records, Data Base And Documentation Center
ZERP afforded opportunities for senior registry staff at the Ministry of Education headquarters
and district registry staff to undergo some training. Further, most of the teachers files have been
re-organized making it easier to find them whenever such a need arises. The Documentation
center was constructed under the project and it will make it possible to store relevant education
documents necessary for research, policy analysis and general reference. The main problem is that
the Documentation center is still not furmished. The teachers records and improvement in
information management undertaken by ZERP was not well integrated in the information
management system which was being carried out by the Planning Unit. The activities of ZERP in
this area was more like a duplication of what was going on in the Planning Unit with
Commonwealth and UNESCO support.
3.0    Summary: Key Lessons Learnt
The government is satisfied with the performance of the Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project.
Major strides have been made in achieving the three objectives of reversing the decline in
education, improving the quality of education and strengthening the management of a complex
education system. All the ZERP sub-components made major contributions to these objectives.
Problems like delays in starting, difficulties in accessing the printing of ZEPH titles, differences
in IDA and National Tender Board procedures, lack of a Ministry of Education ZERP coordinator



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                  43
and reluctance on the part of some donors to finance certain components were a result of
unanticipated factors at the design stage of the project.
The design stage of a project therefore is very critical and the line Ministry has a central role to
play in the process. The Ministry of Education should have taken a key role in the design stage of
ZERP and thereafter, take a central position in monitoring its progress. Some of the key issues
that could have been addressed at the design stage are: the continuation of some of the activities to
be undertaken under ZERP like the Education Management Training, the integration of ZERP
activities into ongoing activities within the Ministry of Education especially in the area of
teachers records, resource mobilization to meet the shortfall in funding and cost effective
strategies to address implementation problems.
A major contributing factor to the success of the project was a result of the commitment and
professional guidance rendered to the management team by the World Bank Staff. Several World
Bank review missions to monitor the progress of the project were carried out. Each project review
mission appraised the Govemment on the development of the project. The relationship between
the Govemment, the World Bank and other co-financiers was warm and cordial. The project could
not have been completed within the scheduled time without the support, commitment and
professionalism of the World Bank management team.
The local project management team executed its responsibilities with maximum competence and
professionalism. The major handicap for the management team was low support from the
Management Coordinating Committee at the Ministry of Education which, because of a number
of factors, could not hold regular meetings to monitor progress, get feedback and provide effective
guidance. However, the freedom that ZERP management team was accorded assisted in meeting
the obj ectives set for the project. Subjecting the project to bureaucratic controls of the Ministry of
Education structures would have held back the operations of the management team.
The location of ZERP outside the Ministry of Education structure and the level of autonomy
accorded to the project implementation team was therefore necessary to strike efficient operation
and meeting scheduled deadlines. However, a strong managerial guidance system on the part of
the Ministry of Education could have assisted in addressing some of the implementation problems
experienced by the project management team.
The experiences gained by the local management team is an asset for future education programs.
The Ministry of Education will in future draw upon this expertise in its education development
programs especially BESSIP.
In order to effectively consolidate the achievements made, more efforts should be undertaken to
monitor progress in the following areas:
* Teachers' understanding and views on the gender sensitivity of the school textbooks
and other education materials supplied to the schools.
*  Quantitative analysis of the textbook-pupil ratios in key subjects like Mathematics,
English, Science and Social studies.
*  Admission ratios for both boys and girls in the school catchment areas.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                    44
* School attendance rates for both boys and girls.
* Gains in time for learning as a result of the reductions, if any, in the number of shifts.
Changes in the attitudes of the pupils to education as a result of the improvements in
the teaching-learning environment.
*  Improvements in teachers' motivation and commitment to teaching.
* Relationships between the schools and the District Education Offices and between the
teachers and the headteachers.
* Improvements in pupil performance on the examinations with special attention to
the gains achieved by girls compared to those of boys.
* District level, school level, and community level strategies for sustaining the
standards and the achievements made through the ZERP effort.
* Monitoring the impact of user fees on the education opportunities of children from
low income families.
4.0    Key Areas For Future Development
Sustainability of the achievements made under ZERP will need paying attention
to the following key areas in future under BESIP.
*  Continuity in the EMT program for the Inspectors, Education Officers, the Deputy
headteachers and senior teachers giving special attention to deputy heads and senior
teachers.
*  Computer installation and software provision at the Examinations Council of Zambia.
 Capacity building for staff at the Examinations Council of Zambia through
specialized professional and technical training.
* Development of the National Assessment System at Grade 4 level and feedback on
examination performance to teachers.
* Supply and distribution of education materials to schools with special attention paid
to effective delivery strategies in the remote rural areas.
* Orientation workshops for teachers in the use of new education materials and
textbooks.
* Continued school construction, rehabilitation and extension of schools in remote rural
areas and disadvantaged areas in the urban centers.
* Support for water and sanitation improvements in schools.
* Strengthening the school-community preventive maintenance work in schools and
regular inspection of school physical infrastructures.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                   45
* Strengthening the Capacity of the buildings section in the Ministry of Education for
effective monitoring of infrastructures.
*  Making Gender issues part of the BESSIP design and allocating a budget to push
forward the Ministry of Education policies on Gender and to address specific gender
interventions.
* Education management training programme should be institutionalised in the existing
colleges but preferably in an Institute of Education as proposed in Educating Our
Future.
* Education Management Training for Head teachers, Deputy heads, and Senior
teachers should be developed in the Distance Education model using the Resource
Centres, as support basis.



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                         46
Appendix C
Table 1 Primary School Enrollment, Boys and Girls, 1990-1996
2   5    re   5   B  ................   v *~~~~~. ....... ... - ..   , ,       ;+ B y
0 ,,i,,;Z3 ,,.,,,< .......~~~~~~~~~................ ; , ....  -   _......   ....  . ..   ...................  .,4GC
... .:    : ,          -:.  .....2.
| =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........
Table 2 Comparison of Enrollment in Selected Towns, 1991 and 1996
Ndola Urban      8,705        64,048        10,015        73,060  .  115%           114%
Source: SAR and Planning Uni, MOE



Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project ICR                                                 47
Table 3 MoE Expenditure and Its Share of GRZ Expenditure 1991-1997
7                                         12%
10% 
T l4 3          E           S r f         EMOexe re
C
60                                            0
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
Source: MoE and Bank staff analysis.
Note: Figures for 199 1-95 are actual expenditures, for 199'7 are as budgeted including the
supplementary estimnates.
Table 4 Primary Education Share of MOE Expenditure 1991-1997
60%   
1991   1992   1993   1994  1995   1996   1997
Source: MoE and Bank staff analysis



MAP SECTION



Loko                             ~~TANZANIA
Z A M B  I A                                                                                                          MN,,I  A
TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS      RIVERS
RAILROADS                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
o  SELECTED CITIES           INTERNAITONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                        V\m 
j   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                  KAS
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
*NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                        0        
SA    1.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~
Mwini                      Ak~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA 
A~ ~              Luul 0am CL  A             R T                                                                                            L A/ 1l > /<-         
c\    ihe boondonoe, colo,o,  n,ootione end a other in(on,,otioO                                                                                                  IOAOTC mAAn
=Zl ,\                                                              S                                                                          OK
on. adn ntaealga naMofno  o ay odrtnrotA ~ t   ~       A  AA 
Lu.ar.soatnafohnanain                                     



