CREDIT NUMBER 2429 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated J      "0 7    9-1 , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2429 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 Al      , 1993, between the
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Bo over)     the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of The
Netherlands (the Dutch) a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount
equivalent   to  three  million   one  hundred   thousand  dollars
($3,100,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Dutch;
(C) the Borrower has contracted or intends to contract from
other sources (the Other Cofinanciers) loans and grants (the Other
Cofinancing) in an amount equivalent to one million nine hundred
thousand dollars ($1,900,000) to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Other
Cofinancing Agreements) entered into or to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Other Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing* to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit   Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(b)   "ECZ" means the Examinations Council of Zambia;
(c)   "ZEPIU"   means   the   Zambia   Education   Projects
Implementation Unit, the unit established in the Borrower's Ministry
of Works and Supply pursuant to Section 3.02 (d) of the Loan
Agreement dated June 6, 1973 between the Borrower and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and which has
since been transferred to, and is now maintained in, MOE;
(d)   "SRPU" means Social Recovery Project Unit, the entity
established pursuant to Section 3.07 of, and Schedule 4 to, the
Development Credit Agreement dated July 24, 1991 between the
Borrower and the Association to manage the financing and
implementing of Sub-projects under the Borrower's Social Recovery
Project;
(e)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 26, 1991 and September
9, 1991 between the Borrower and the Association;
(f)   "Special Account" means either of the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and "Special Accounts"
means both of the accounts; and
(g)  "wacha" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two
million   two    hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 22,200,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) a special
account (Special Account A) for the purposes of Parts A, B.2, C and
D of the Project; and (ii) a special account (Special Account B) for
the purposes of Part B.1 of the Project. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement respectively.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the 4ate
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafte,&, pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2003 and ending September 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2Z) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of Categories (1) (b), (2) and
(6) (b) in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
the SRPU is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
HOE and SRPU, as set forth hereunder, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, educational and architectural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out
Parts A, B.2, C and D of the Project, establish and maintain a
Project Implementation Team with qualified staff in adequate
numbers, including a Project Coordinator to head such Team, all
acceptable to the Association.


﻿-6-
(c)   The Borrower shall carry out Part B.1 of the Project
through the SRPU under the terms and conditions agreed upon with the
Association' and, for such purposes, shall maintain the SRPU until
the completion of Part B.1 of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement with regard to the
provision of funds, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A,
B.2, C and D of the Project:
(a)   open and thereafter maintain for the duration of the
Project in Kwacha an account (the Project Account) in a bank
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association;
(b)   deposit into the Project Account an initial amount
equivalent to fifty million Kwacha (K 50,000,000) in constant 1992
Kwacha;
(c)   thereafter deposit into the Project Account not later
than March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 in each year
during Project implementation, the amount necessary to replenish the
Project Account to the initial amount referred to in the preceding
sub-paragraph; and
(d)   ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account
pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make
payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services for Parts A, B.2, C and D of
the Project not eligible to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by May 31, 1993, develop and
adopt a strategy document acceptable to the Association for the
development of primary and secondary school education.
A supplemental letter sets out the terms and
conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by January 31, 1994:
(a)   furnish to the Association an action plan (including a
timetable) acceptable to the Association to improve the efficiency
and objectivity of the Inspectorate in MOE and thereafter implement
such action plan according to such timetable; and
(b)   introduce a separate line item in MOE's budget to
finance the activities of the Inspectorate.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by May 31, 1994, furnish to
the Association an action plan (including a timetable) acceptable to
the Association for the reorganization of the responsibilities of
the ZEPIU in relation to MOE, and thereafter implement such action
plan according to such timetable.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall progressively increase the
allocation to MOE of its national budget so as to be at least 15%
thereof by January 31, 1995, and progressively increase the
allocation to primary education of MOE's budget so as to be at least
40% thereof by January 31, 1995.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by May 31, 1995 make
training of head-teachers, under a program acceptable to the
Association, a condition of their appointment.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time and in any case not later than October 31 in each year
during Project implementation, starting in 1993, exchange views on
MOE's program, plans of action and budget for the following fiscal
year and, without limitation upon the generality of the provisions
of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, jointly review the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association:
prior  to each   such  exchange  of views   as
specified in paragraph (a) of this Section, and
in any case not later than September 30 in each
year, MOE's draft program, plans of action
(including training programs) and budget for the
following fiscal year;


﻿-8-
(ii)    as soon as practicable after such exchange of
views,   and  in  any   case  not   later  than
December 31 in each year, MOE's detailed
program, plans of action and budget for the
following   year   in    form   and   substance
satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii)    not later than June 30 and December 31 in each
year a report on the progress of the Project
including financial accounts, physical progress,
evaluations of consultants services, procurement
and disbursement, a summary of monitoring
activities and measures taken to implement the
findings of monitoring, and a work plan for the
coming six months.
(c)   As one of the joint reviews referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower and the Association shall, by
October 31, 1995, or at such time as half of the amount of the
Credit shall have been disbursed, whichever is earlier, carry out a
joint in-depth review of the Project and its implementation
arrangements (the Mid-term Review).
(d)   Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (c)
above, the Borrower shall, for purposes of discussion during the
Mid-term Review, furnish to the Association prior to the Mid-term
Review and in any event by September 30, 1995:
(i)    a draft plan to revise the management structure
of MOE;
(ii)    reports of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall stipulate, of the studies
described in Parts D.1, D.3, D.4 and D.5 of the
Project; and
(iii)    a  draft   book  development  policy   for  the
provision and development of learning materials.
(e)   The Borrower shall, as soon as practicable after the
Mid-term Review and in any case by such date or dates as shall be
set by the Association, implement the recommendations acceptable to
the Association of the Mid-term Review.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and -accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof including the ZEPIU and the SRPU.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish   to  the  Association,   as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information   concerning   the  said   records,
accounts   and  the   audit   thereof  as   the
Association shall from tLme to time reasonably
request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;


﻿- 10 -
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special. Account    was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that  such  records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by the said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedi.res and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has approved affordable school building
designs acceptable to the Association for the purposes of Part B.2
of the Project;
(b)   the Borrower has dedicated the Examinations Council
Building for the sole use of the ECZ;
(c)   the Borrower has hired the staff referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement and has appointed the requisite
consultants to assist such staff in the implementation of Parts A,
B.2, C and D of the Project including an auditor, an accountant and
a procurement officer; and


﻿- 11 -
(d)   the Borrower has    opened the Project Account and
deposited therein the initial amount of fifty million Kwacha
(K 50,000,000) pursuant to Sections 3.03 (a) and (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINFIN                    42221
Lusaka
Telefax:
222440
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By 14/1  9&t4t/         ~    j~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
'    Regiona    ice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          Z of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:
(a) New Schools          4,880,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(b) Extension and        1,380,000        100%
Rehabilitation
of existing
schools
(2)   Materials, in-           1,730,000        100%
cluding furniture,
for extension and
rehabilitation
of existing
schools
(3)   Education                6,200,000        100%
materials
(4)   Other furniture,         2,420,000        100%
vehicles and
equipment


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Cate-gor               SDR Eauivalent)     to be Financed
(5)   Consultants'             2,540,000        100%
services,
training and
studies
(6)   Incremental                               100%
operating
costs:
(a) of MOE                 620,000
(b) of the SRPU             70,000
(7)   Refunding of               160,000        Amounts due pur-
Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of thic
Agreement
(8)   Unallocated              2,200,000
TOTAL              22,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
. (c)    the term   "incremental operating costs" means the
operating costs incremental to the Project associated with the
maintenance of equipment, the purchase of office supplies, travel of
the Project Implementation Team, and until the date two years after


﻿- 15 -
the Effective Date and not thereafter, the maintenance of vehicles;
and
(d)   the term "other furniture" means furniture other than
furniture under Category (2) in the table in paragraph 1 hereto.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 690,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after April 26, 1992.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to arrest further
decline in education quality by supporting a series of interventions
to enhance education quality; (b) to improve access to primary
education through the rehabilitation and construction of facilities;
and (c) to strengthen the Borrower's education management and
planning by improving the capacity of MOE for policy formulation and
analysis.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improvement of Education Quality
1.    Acquisition  and  distribution  of instructional materials
including text books, teacher's guides, teaching kits, reference
books, supplementary readers and other books for school libraries;
and orientation of teachers to new materials.
2.    Improvement of the quality of school examinations and of the
management of ECZ through:
(a)   strengthening the capacity of ECZ for examination reform
and reinvigoration;
(b)   improving ECZ's management in order to increase its
capacity to manage the changes arising from the growth of the
education system;
(c)   establishing an examination feedback system to schools;
(d)   developing  and   establishing  competency  tests  for
diagnostic use in schools at Grade 4 level in order to detect
learning problems at an early point;
(e)   training of examinations personnel;
(f)   acquisition of books and periodicals, computer hardware
and software, other office equipment and vehicles for use of ECZ
staff; and


﻿- 17 -
(g)   rehabilitation of the ECZ building to improve security
and storage.
Part B:     Increase of Access to Education
1.    Rehabilitation and extension of existing school facilities.
2.    Construction and furnishing of new schools.
Part C:     Education Planning and Management
1.    Strengthening of MOE's education management capacity through:
(a)   training of head teachers, education officers and school
inspectors; and
(b)   acquisition of reference books, journals, reprographic
facilities and vehicles.
2.    Improvement of MOE's information management through:
(a)   strengthening the capacity of MOE's Planning Unit to
systemize, update and improve the collection, retrieval, analysis
and dissemination of MOE's data, including training of MOE staff;
(b)   establishment of a computerized system for collecting,
processing, utilizing and maintaining teacher's records, including
training of MOE staff in the utilization of such system;
(c)   creation of a documentation center containing literature
related to education in Zambia; and
(d)   construction of a building extension to house the
records referred to in the preceding three paragraphs.
Part D:     Studies
Carrying out of the following studies to assist the Borrower
in education planning and policy making.
1.    education management;
2.    increasing access to secondary education and the impact of
basic schools;


﻿- 18 -
3.    financing of education;
4.    teacher training and utilization;
5.    gender issues in education;
6.    primary and secondary school curriculum design and book
publishing policy;
7.    the   incidence  and   prevention  of   cholera   and  other
environmentally related illnesses in schools;
8.    the development of tertiary education;
9.    community participation in education; and
10.   out of school youth.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more for
civil works and $100,000 or more for goods.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Zambia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $3,500,000, and items or groups of items for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $5,400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 20 -
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $40,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $800,000 and contracts for rehabilitation works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Works under Parts A.2 (g) and C.2 (d) of the Project, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be carried out by force
account.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to the said paragraph 3 shall
be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnisbed pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 and paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding paragraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 21 -
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account A
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a),
(3), (4), (5) and (6) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of Special Account A shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account A shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into Special Account A such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of Special Account A, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into Sp,cial Account A at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 23 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into Special Account A such
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of Special
Account A for eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account
A, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into Special Account A:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 24 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special
Account A as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account A: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into Special Account A (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to. the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into Special Account A
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
Special Account A.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account B
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (b),
(2) and (6) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of Special Account B shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account B shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into Special Account B such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of Special Account B, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into Special Account B at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 26 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into Special Account B such
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of Special
Account B for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account
B, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3      of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into Special Account B:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 27 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special
Account B as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account B: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into Special Account B (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into Special Account B
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account B will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
Special Account B.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


