n574                                  ~~~~~~~RESTRICTFED
wiA   1RN                 R   F   .~   A    YReport No. PTR-l$'a
I-
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AX1DD A TCAT A  T,
A SECOND HIGHW'AY PROJECT
ARGENI'INA
June 10, 1969
Transportation P-rojects Department



Currency Equivalent s:
Currency Unit        = Peso M$N
US$:1.00             = M$N 350
US$l million         = MIN 350 million
M$N 1 million        = US$2,857.14
Fiscal Year:
January 1 to December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (hm)     = 0.62 miles (mi)
l me+er tm           - 3.28 feet (f Pt
1 square kilometer
~1I 1"  /        S _,)U  LJU. . L4.L  ZAII.L±   %  1   IJLI. I
1 metric ton (m ton) = 0.98 lg. ton
1 metric +on (r. +ton) =1 l.l USshort +on
Totals may not add up because of rounding
Abbreviations - Acronyms
ADT                  - Average Daily Traffic
BPR                  - 'unrdted eStates Bureau oI
Public Roads
EFA                  - Empresa Ferrocariles Argentina
LRTP                 - Long Range Transportation
Pian (1962)
OLD                  - Origin and Destination
I s                 - Tippetts, Abbett, McCarthy
and Stratton (US) -Consultants
UwoS                 - -United Nations Special Fund
(now United Nations Development
Programme - Special Fund)
USAID                - United States Agency for
International Development



APPRAISwALT OF A QECOn3D H T(M T4AY PROJECT
TABLE OF CO'NtTENlTS
SUMARY                                                                 Page
1. INTRODUCTION                                                          1
2. BACKGROUND                                                            3
A. General                                                            3
B. The Transport Sector                                               3
C. Transport Coordination                                             4
3. THE HIGIDiY SECTOR                                                    6
A. The Highway Network, Characteristics and Growth of Road            6
Traffic
B. Highway Administration                                             6
C. Financing and Planning                                             8
D. Highway Engineering                                               10
E. Highway Construction                                              10
F. Highway Maintenance                                               11
4. THE PROJECT                                                          13
A. General Description                                               13
B. Highways to be Upgraded and Paved                                 13
C. Additional Consulting and Expert Services                         15
D. Miscellaneous Equipment                                           17
E. Cost Estimates and Financing                                      17
F. Execution of the Project                                          19
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                  21
A. Introduction                                                      21
B. Route 7, Laboulaye-Mercedes Section                               21
C. Route 3 and Rpute 251 Sections                                    21
6. RECOMMEENDATIONS                                                     23
This report was prepared by Messrs. Alexander (engineer) and Haker (econrrmist).



TABLE OF CO,iENmTS (COINTD.)
TABLES
1.  Freight Traffic by Modes of Transport
2.  Incidence of U    'ser ChLlJarges on Veicle J.    Costs-
3.  Revenues from Principal User Taxes
4.   ederal    Vn' adro-vinciaVl[I .LI[U U  £CV LE-L L MW1Ui1.L0i± i Lp1 0nJitur e
5. Composition of the Highway Networks
6.  Vehicle Registration
7. Fuel Consumption
8.  Design Standards for National Roads
9. Roads to be Upgraded and Cost Estimates
10. Project Cost Estimates
Annex 1     -    The First Highway Project and Other External A5sistance
for Highways
Annex 2     -    Transport Coordination
Annex 3     -    Basis for Economic Justification of Project Road Sections
CHART       -    Organization of Vialidad
MiAPS          1.  Principal Roads of the National Highway Network
2.  Railway Network
3.  Project Road Section - Route 7
4.  Project Road Sections - Routes 3 and 251



ARGENTINA
APPRAISAL CF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SIJmaRy
i.        After making a highway loan in 1961 and acting as Executing
Agency for a United Nations Special Fund Study (UNSF) of the transport
sector at the same time, the Bank was for several years not closely asso-
ciated with overall highway development in Argentina. This was due to poor
performance under the highway loan, the reluctance of the Government to im-
plement major reccmmendations of the UNSF Study and the lack of a consistent
approach to transport development. In 1967, the present Government gave
priority to improving the neglected transport sector, and to strengthening
the capacity of the Government agencies responsible for the sector's plan-
ning, administration and coordination. In the highway sector, a major three>-
vear construction program (Three Year Plan) was started in 1968 and the
strengthening process begun. The Government requested the Bank's assistance
in financing a oronosed proiect which includes the unarading and paving
of 796 km of national roads contained in this three-year program; the
identification and prepnrati in nf a fiutiure 'hichwai investment program; and.
assistance tc) improve the planning and administration of the highway network
;;      'Thae  total  coat  of  the  m^Qe   ;r'1v9;nc  r+ia n ; .   1C  __  _.
mated at US$50 million equivalent. The Bank loan of US$25 million, of which
UqS$3t 3 million is for vn-ge     s  would finance 50% Of the c5t of
construction (US$17.6 million, including about US$5.28 million of local
cvurrency cost-.s)s andA 4the forigr excge cost of fil   -ndofceeup
ment needed for the proper planning and administration of the highway net-
work (uJS$500   j 0. lTe Govexrnment w.ll -4LA2'  L4. er.te cost of Ls
coordination experts to the Secretariat of Transport (US$200,000 equivalent),
consulting and expert services for the improvement of thne planning and ad-
ministration of the highway network (US$1,000,000 equivalent), and a reccn-
naissance stu.dy (US$400,0000 equivalenilj to identify t1he future road invest-
ment program for which feasibility and detailed engineering studies will
be carried out subsequently.  The loan would also f inance 6up4 of the cost
of services t.o be provided by local and foreign consultants for the
construction supervision of the project roads (uS$600,000 equivalent), and.
the carrying out of feasibility and detailed engineering studies (US$3.0
million equivalent). The figure 60% was selected in view of the substantial
participation. expected by local firms and the recommendation that their
services be financed by the Bank in the same proportion as would have been.
the case had foreign consultants been enployed, so that financing arrange-
ments would not affect the choice of firms.
iii.      Detailed engineering for the project roads has been completed by
the Government and is satisfactory; consultants will assist the Government
in analyzing bids and supervising construction. The cost estimates are
considered reliable and adequate contingencies have been included.



- ii -
iv.       The project is technically and economically sound.   The economic
rates of return for the different works range from 10 to 14%.
v.        Contracts for the project works will be let on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding. Execution of the project wi.ll be the
responsibility of the National Highway Department (Vialidad).
vi.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$25
million eauivalent.  An anpropriate term would he 25 years. nTniuding a
four-year period of grace.



ARGBM'1TINJA
APPRAISAL OF THIE SECOND HIGrHtALLY PROJECT
1.  hITRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Argentina has requested a loan of US$25 million
equivalent to help finance a project costing about US$50 million equivalent
comprising (a) the upgrading of about 796 Im of three national highways
including cornsulting services, and (b) additional consulting and expert
services for the identification and preparation of a future highway invest-
ment program. including feasibility and detailed engineering studies, the
improvement of the planning and administration of the country's highway
network and the improvement of transport coordination.
1.02      This would be the second Bank project in the transportation sector.
The first was a loan (288-AR) of Us$h8.5 million equivalent. signed in
June 1961, to finance the foreign exchange cost of improving 2,600 km of
national highways (see Map 1), including advisorv services by consultants.,
and road maintenance equipment. At the time of the loan a study of
Argentina's transoort svstem was inderwav with United Nations SDecial Fun(d
(UNSF) financing (US$520,000 equivalent), the Bank acting as Executing
AMenc'7 the study was cnrmltted in early 1962 arnd the results published
as the Long Rlange Transportaticn Plan (LMITP).
1.03      A number of problems developed during the execution of the first
nrn-iel. miicrh 1. n ln'k o~f' lrer:ll f'irno - incf'f8o+.;3  l us of ptr^on,i1+~nn.c nn
management of the project and poor quality of work. After unsuccessful
efforts by the Bankl to irove the situation, the amou-+ of the loan -was
reduced to US$32 million and the scope of work curtailed in 1965. The
S~i'oiibSn roln+  nff^+'r , - fc   ~ - T4 .,  .  ',,n,~-,,,--- 1E)-d  +0-  4'-I,-  4-4 -.f..- ,-',r
susq uentef.forts.o a new V- lidad rage   led to      C the  CV.4. VLtU 
completion of the project by its extended Closing Date of December 31, 1968.
Fu_r+uh,er dCta-ils0 --------n the above subJe-t and 04her -P-4 - as 4sistance
VC~LCC  1JA~i.  IJ.1~, U11C; CAJCJ Vt:; ou.L' ,Uo  CXILU  Ul Ld   I  J. VI U _'L 6I  .1. .,
to the highway sector are given in Annex 1 and para. 3.19. This improve-
men combIILVnLll wi thl V.L-aClV±Ud.adU  j±LL£ Lu Uplans f lor e U.i1g iLts weak' organ. zLau-Lull
justify the Bank in proceeding with the loan under consideration.
1.04      Early in 1968 the Government indicated its desire to give increased
a4t4tenti4on to th- ~,e 4transport sect-o r a nd t o c on sidLue r a - L-ucu' loa   for- a ro0a d p ro-uject ;
for which feasibility studies were being carried out. An exploratory Bank
missuilon to Argentina in May 1968 broaaLy examined the Government s S approach
to the transport sector and concluded that the Bank could play an important
role in the development oI the sector.  This ied to a transport mission to
Argentina in September-October 1968 to make a detailed review of rail anc6
road transport. Thne transport mission;s findings and recorrnendations were
presented to the Government at the end of January 1969. Following this
work, Argentina is taking steps to improve transport coordination and
planning, and is developing a detailed plan to rehabilitate and redimension
the railways. The Government has addressed a letter to the Bank outlinirng
the direction of its present policies for improving the planning and admini-
stration of highwayE.



1.05      This report has been prepared by Messrs. Alexander (engineer) and
Haker (econrnjmist) who anpraised the nroiect as members of the transport
mission which visited Argentina in September-October 1968.



- 3 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Argentina, with an area of 2.9 million km'2 is the eighth largest
country in the world. The country had an estimated 1968 population of 23..
million and an overall density of only 9 per km . However, two-thirds of
the population are concentrated within a 600 km radius from Buenos Aires;_
in the remainder of the country the population density is only 2.4 per km3.
Total population growth has averaged only 1.8% annually between 1950 and
1967. Argentina had a 1966 GNP of US$17.L billion, with an estimated per
capita average of US$75O. ranking second in Latin America. after Venezuela.
In this respect Argentina also ranks higher than many European countries.
Thp annual GNP growth has hpn 3% be-wepn 1Q5O anri 1966.
B. ThA Trqn.nnrt. Rrjtn--
2 02      General : Manor geophysical factors influencing the transport
system are few, confined to the Andes on the west boundary and the Plata
river system that f Orac in                           into the A+ nnr nmnn
The system has therefore been largely determined by demographic and economic
considerations --th the predominating factor being    the high concentration of
population and economic activity around Buenos Aires, covering only 15% of
the country but cont.mii,ing  uvwv-ui.lus oLf Le  lato.    Ihi. ae  aLso
contains 65% of the livestock, produces 85% of all grains and cereals, and
accounts for M,ost of the i ndustriaL activity.  Mevtropolitan  uenos 4ires
itself constitutes the hub of this area, with its population of 7.1 million
(30%k of the country-s total), its port that handles about one-half of the
country's dry cargo, and its role as the industrial, financial and com-
mercial center of tne country; it is tne focal point for transport in
Argentina. The most recent data on traffic volumes for the various transport
modes are for 1966 and show a total of 70 billion ton-km; highways account
for 23 billion, coastal shipping 20 billion, railways 14 billion, pipelines
7 billion and river transport 6 billion (Table 1).
2.03      Highways:  Details of tne nignway sector are given in unapter 3
and Tables 2, 3 and 4.
2.04      Railways: Argentina already had a well developed railway systen
in the beginning of this century. It now comprises about bl,700 km of lines
in operation under the Empresa Ferrocarriles Argentina (EFA) over half of
which were built around 1890 and 1920. The system is largely concentrated
in the provinces around Buenos Aires (see Map 2). Since the thirties, tha
railways have been losing traffic to road transport in relative and even
absolute terms. The railway deficit is very large and railway revenues are
insufficient to cover even labor costs. The railways are overstaffed, a
large proportion of their equipment is obsolete, maintenance is hampered
by lack of spare parts, operations are inefficient and many lines are
uneconomic. During the past year a new management has improved the rail-
ways' performance considerably by restoring discipline, improving operating
efficiency and procuring spare parts, and it has initiated studies on



uneconomic lines and staff redundancy. A railway rehabilitation and redi--
mensioning program is being prepared which forecasts that in 1973 railway
revenues could cover all operating expenses and provide an allowance for
depreciation on renewable assets.
2.05       Inland Waterways.  The waterway system is formed by the Plata
river and its tributaries, the Parana, Uruguay, Paraguay and Alto Parana.
It covers more than 3,000 km of navigable routes but does not play a majo?'
role in the transport system because of inadequate depth.    A UIJDP study on
the Parana River from Asuncion, Paraguay to Corrientes is underway to find
ways of improving navigation to permit the use of deeper draft vessels.
2.06      Ports:   Official statistics show 177 ports and loading places
along the rivers and the coastline, but most of these are unimportant.
Total port traffic amounted to about 63 miLLion tons during 1966 including
about 33 milLion tons of petroleum products. Buenos Aires is the leading
port with 15.4 million tons of dry cargo; Rosario handles 3.6 million tons;
Bahia Blanca 2.2 million tons and eight others carry over 90% of the re-
mainder. Dry cargo traffic has been growing rather slowly in the past sevren
years (under 4% per annum). Buenos Aires has been congested but, through
the efforts of a new port management, a considerable improvement has been
made.
2.07      Pipelines:   Argentina has a rather extensive petroleum product pipe-
line network of some 10,500 km that connects all major production and con--
sumption centers.   In 1966 petroleum products traffic controlled 7 billion
ton-km corresponding to one-half of the total traffic carried by railways.
Pipelines are the fastest growing transport mode in Argentina.
2.08      Air Transport:   Because of its large size and low population den-
sity; Argent.ina reli     heavnly on air transport.  There are 98 airports in
the country, five of which handle both international and domestic traffic..
The inrports of Tbenos Aires, cordoba and M.endoza together handrled h5% Of
the 2.5 milLion passengers carried in 1965; the annual passenger traffic
growt.h rn+n has bnen  bout. 7I hna+.an IQ,R vnA 1QfA   V-.icrhj+. +.rnffjio amount.-
ed to about :30,000 tons in 1967, two-thirds of which had an international
origin or destinationl.
C. Transport Coordination
2.09      Argentina has not dev loped effmetiv.e trans-ortation policy and
coordination measures. The existing institutional arrangements hamper the
formulation of appropriatve poices      T     "c'-i-at- of' T            r-
sponsible for coordination but it directly controls only the railways and
to in a number of investments in the highway sector with low rates of return,
ra way p-cn     poice _ha      do: no  coe   oprtn     costs,--  . -------,-  --  andJ t>e, con-
ti.LLued. jJerLtiLn. JJU neon.L mic UlaaU la UV LIU n sUVU± U p tonoJw.L1r  Juse rU UIca  h.av
tinued opera-tion of uneconomic railway lines. Up to now user charges have



- 5 -
unduly favored the use of diesel trucks but a new diesel fuel tax that the
Government intends to introduce shortly will help correct this. A Sectorial
Development Office at the Secretariat of Transport was recently created to
plan transport policy, but it lacks adequate staff and experience. The em-
ployment of two experts for a period of about two years to advise the Office
and train local staff was discussed during negotiations and receipt of tha
Government's confirmation of these arrangements is expected shortly. The
Government would finance the entire cost of these experts; the Secretariat
would assimn two senior counterparts to work with them. Details concerning
transport coordination problems and the duties of the experts are given in
Annex 2.



- 6 -
3. THE HIGHWIAY SECTOR
A. The Highlw1ay Network, Characteristics and Growth of the Vehicle Fleet
3.01      The Highlway Network:  The primary network of 137,000 km is divided
into a national network of h6.000 km (see Man 1) and a nrovlncial nrimary
network of 91,000 km; 28,000 km (20%) of the primary network are paved in-
cluding 200 nkm of roads of four or more lanes, 18iOn km.. (13%) are gravelled
and the remainder (67%) are earth roads and tracks. In addition there is a
provincial secondary and tertiary road system roughly estimated at 800,00O
km. There is little information on the latter's length, quality and concdi-
tion and the inventory of the natio.1nal nUrk is in3d3e.q       Det+ails 04'
the distribution of roads by type and systems is given in Table 5. In
gene.-'  th-a present network of roals m,eets 4rff             L eurmIt  u  hr
~'~**'*  -&, '~~.'~J  ~)4JU  UWJ.f  'L L  u LJU, 1I 3 Ud .L df i c . LU   eq  ir4.  LJiLI~O  IAL  ,IU
is need for selective improvement of the system mainly by shortening align-
men's and strengll heI1ng oring parveuxnn.
3 .02JL   UI±dLaracterlsti cS and Growt;h o f the VehicLle r' eet:U The large aut;o-
mobile industry is capable of supplying all local needs; it produces abot.t
180, 0  -vehicles annually but production costs are roughly 50% higher than
comparable vehicles made in Europe and the United States. There were
1,786,000 vehicles in 1967 consisting of 1,081,000 of cars, 618.000 truck
vans and pick-ups, 64,000 trailer combinations and 23,000 buses (Table 6).
The vehicle density was one for 13 persons -- the second in Latin America
and compares with the average of 11 persons per vehicle for Europe as a
whole.  The spread of the vehicle fleet is uneven; close to 60% is con-
centrated in the Buenos Aires province, and a further 25% in the adjacent,
provinces of Santa Ee, Cordoba, and Corrientes and in Mendoza to the west.
The rate of annual growth in the fleet for 1947-1967 exhibits an uS"' curve
pattern:  between 1947 and 1956, growth averaged only 2.8% per annum;
increased to 7% between 1956 and 1960, to 12% between 1960 and 1961, but
between 196b and 1967 it declined to 7.7%. The future growth will probably
be moderate, in the order of 7% annually.
B. Highway Administration
3.03      Vialidad (see Chart), under the Secretariat of Public Works, iE
responsible for the planning, construction and maintenance of the national
highway network (Map 1). Provincial Highway Departments are similarly
responsible for the provincial highway networks. The planning of and
engineering for the national network are performed in Headquarters (Buencs
Aires); all field investigations and some construction supervision are also
handled frcm Headquarters by visiting teams. Road maintenance and super-
vision of construction are done by Vialidad personnel in 24 District Offices.
For a country the size of Argentina with so extensive a road network, many
of VialidadTs activities are too centralized. Furthermore, there is un-
neeessary daplication of services sunplied by the national and provincial
authorities, especially in the more developed and populated provinces which
have fairly vood organizations, although many of the more remote provinces
are almost entirely dependent on the technical expertise of the Vialidad
Di-stric r-O ff,incq-



3.04      Vialidad intends to transfer its detailed planning, supervision of
caistruction and road maintenance functions to the provincial authorities,
thus leaving it to concentrate on overall planning and coordination of the
country's high-way network.  This institutional reorganizatJon is considered
to be essential for *the more efficient management of highways, but will
take many years to carry out. Dur ing loan- negotiations, the broad princi;ples
and timing of such reorganization have been discussed and agreed and con-
firmation obtained from the Government that it will carry outv the reorgaLiza-
tion on this basis. A recent first step was the establishment of seven
regions to which have been delegated more authority and some of the Head-
quarters' engineering and investigating function. This decentralization is
intended to make the Vialidad regional offices self-supporting in the design,
construction and maintenance of national highways and to bring this expertise
in direct contact with the provincial authorities, with the eventual aim Df
transferring the responsibility for these duties to the provinces.
3.05      Major obstacles to efficient highway management are the lack of
basic data (such as a highway inventory and reliable traffic counts) for
planning and administration purposes, of the equipment to collect such data,
and of a satisfactory cost accounting system. Provision has been made in
the project for ccnsulting services and the acquisition of needed equipment
to help remove these obstacles.  For example, the present traffic counting
system is deficient in that counts are mainly limited to the national net-
work and are taken only once a year at insufficient and badly located points;
they are not adequately supervised. During 1967/68, with the help of a
traffic engineer financed under a Ford Foundation grant, an initial plan
was developed to improve the system for the national network. The plan is
basically sound, but the financing from the Foundation has ceased and the
system still remains to be established on a proper and permanent basis.
The Government has agreed that it will maintain a suitably staffed and
ea.uipped office to collect and analvze traffic and cost data for the purpose
of road management and planning.
3.06      In 1970, when much of the basic planning data should be available,
the Government will be in a positi on to carrv out. detailed studies in one
or more of the seven regions to assess the most efficient organization and
operating m-ethods for regional administration and transfer of Vialidad
functions to the provinces and to establish a timetable for such transfer.
The studies would also provirde a more accurate determination of the physical
and financial needs of the provinces to enable them to plan, execute and
maintain highway inves+tm.en,ts.  T.hese studi c are rnot i. _ureliin the nro-
posed project because existing data deficiencies would prevent their
satisfactory execution.  The Bank shou.d re view progress r.ade on them.
3.07      Another obstacle to efficient highway administration is chronic
±understL±.L.U,9 of Via.LLda Uue to low salaries.  Vialidad now has about 115
engineers in. Headquarters and 90 engineers in the Districts; these numbers
should be increased to 220 and 175 respectively to handle its present work=
load. The present management of Vialidad is trying hard to solve this
problem.  Competent personnel from within the organization aare being placedC



- 8-
,  ne   o- r. P  n..4-1,-.nw4 4-..  T -, ,-4 .-.Il -4.-4 -  n .,AlrI 1 .  .  .y n.+n . . nV  %Vbn
Vialidad to grant merit increases in salaries to staff members, and to
con.tract individual experts fr up to 2 years, as a result of whIch Lialidad
should be able to attract further qualified staff on both a permanent and
3.08      The vehicle weight and dimension limitations are satiUactory.     The
maximum single axle :Load is 10.5 m tons.  However, penalties are too ligh-t f or
proper erforcement and the control of weight regulations requires improvemenut.
A number of fixed and portable weighing scales were procured under the firs-t
highway loan and there are now 16 fixed and 4 portable units operating between
Buenos Aires and Mendcza.   Vialidad has 10 portable units on order and
requires about 20 more; provision for the latter is included in the project.
Provincial authorities do not assist in enforcement at present, and Vialidad
is seeking their cooperation.   Assurances have been obtained from the Govern-
ment that it will take measures as appropriate to strengthen and ensure the
enforcement of the vehicle regulations.
C. Financing and Planning
3.09      Financing:   The cost of administering and maintaining the highway
system is borne out of general revenues of both the provincial and the
federal goverrnments. Investment expenditures are financed by earmarking part
of the taxes on road users (for the transport coordination aspect of these
taxes, see Amnex 2), mainly taxes on fuel and tires.   The total revenues irom
these earmarked taxes anounted to M$N 40 billion in 1967 out of a total of
M$N 142 bill:ion collected from users, compared with a total highway invest-
ment expendi-ture of ISN 42 billion in that vear. There was a deficit of
M$N 25 billion in amounts earmarked in 1968 which was covered from the general
budget. The Government has increased earmarked road user taxes further to
cover the large expansion of highway construction expenditures under the
Three-Year P:Lan. The revenues for hisnhwav investment expenditures are
channeled on the basis of fixed formulae through (i) the fund for nationa:L high-
wavs (nrimnry nfrtwrlc); ( ii) +'he fPderal r prnnqrti ni nqiion find (pnrouvincial
primary network); and (iii) the provincial road fund (secondary and tertiary
roads)   ReL ve minues in thp federa1 clonarticination fu nd are sibseouentlv ap-
portioned be-tLween the 22 individual provinces on the basis of (i) 30% in
enin1 shRres; (il) 20% in prnnn-rti-nn to p-pulationD; (iii) 20. in nronortion
to own revenues from provincial sources; and (iv) 30% in proportion to fuel
cons,wmp,.t i n n .
3 10      T. ^'D ap-plceo ofA,-r,no thes.e Trigi  fr                   rnohl1.mq_
(i) there is no logical connection between real resource needs of the highway
ecr-+ a-r, parti '--ar vol4mes ofP -fcal revr.ues ge..erA bJr the roadr fund,rs
and (ii) overinvestment is produced in certain provinces and underinvestment
.L- otuhers .rIt is) 4here-P--- Aesirable 4that4 the- ar-ge,e.t  o  dsrb-
of revenues be revised as soon as possible and levels of investment be
uC t el-liluiu  t  udiriui± i i 'ra llUst   U1 Of . X nueUds . JA fi.t s  XX ±11 u i  l , _,_
tion is described in para. 3.12 in connection with the reorganization of
planning.



- 9 -
3.11    OrgS  ztor of P-4-Mng        High.vJay plaradng is the re-ponsibilit.y
of a recently created depar-tment of Vialidad.  It is badly understaffed ald
now cor.cen-trates Ma-H;l-   --i,lrm- CV g roa  sis  si     .15n r.  Thr
is insufficient commumication between the Planning Department and other
r,1> L-s t-r ies concernred -witvh eccrLormLc activity ar,d, J'n pat- Lcu-l , with41 thIe
Secretariat of Transport, and these agencies have failed to pay sufficient
attention to econoCM-ic criteria in the pra  a   .    of their huighway _
vestment plans.
3.12      The present planning mechanism, whether at the provincial or
federal level, suffers from two prilcipal deficiencies:   (i) the absence of an
adequate data system on which to base investment decisions and formulate
appropriate criteria; and (ii) the absence of a central investment review
mechanism within the Planning Department of Vialidad. As mentioned earlier
(paras. 2.09 and 3.05) assistance is to be provided in the prcposed project
to help remedy the first deficiency. The Government has agreed that it will
evaluate the economic merits of such roads as shall be included in the
future road construction plans in £irgentina, and that due account shall be
taken if these merits in the formulation of such plans.
3.13      Past e tten!ts at Planning:  The 1962 Long Range Transportation
Plan (IRTP) (para. 1.02) provided the first comprehensive approach to high-
way planning and transport coordination policy. Unfortunately, most of
its recommerndations were not implemented due to the many changes in Govern-
ment and conrsequent absence of continuity in Vialidad's management. Plarn-
ning activity was not renewed until 1967 when Vialidad formulated an am-
bitious Three-Year Plan (1968-1970), but iwrithout economic studies.
3.14      The Three--Year Plan provides for improvements to 16,800 km of roads
of which 2g800 km were already under execution in 1967; its total cost from
1968 is estiiLaated at M$N 227 billion (US$650 million) and plamned expenditure
levels are MMN 36 billion in 1968. 51 billion in 1969, 63 billion in 1970
and the balance of E$N 77 billion thereafter. Many of the roads contained
in the Plbrn arpeAr to have lttle nonomic justification. In 1968 the
execution of the Plan was accelerated and about 80% of the Plan roads are
either under construiction or are ready for tender. This acceleration is
causing considerable strain on Vialidad's executive capacity.
3.15      The annual investments on all highways are estimated to reach the
level of M$N 82 billion (TJSw24 mlllior.) irn 1968 and mn N 103 hillion
(US$294 million) by 1970. Although the highway system needs continuous
Aprovemenrt along .ith- the general development of th-e mcon-.... i.t  avrall
condition does not constitute a major bottleneck to road transport require-
m,ents. For this reas-r, futre arn.ual highway investment should probably
be considerably less than at present and the determination of road projects
shov'dhA o- n, a muclc m.ore selpCti4T -a;  fo-l,    hP-1y fuly dtaled desi gns.



- 10 -
3.16      A reccnnaissance study will be carried out under the project to
identify the future investment needs of the primary road network; roads in
the Three-Year Plan for which detailed engineering is not complete or which
will not be contractDd under authority granted in the 1969 budget would be
reviewed in this study. An assurance has been obtained from the Governmenat
that its decision to execute these Plan roads will be deferred until after
they have been evaluated in the study.
D. Highway Engineering
3.17      In the past, highway design standards were somewhat low but in
1967 they were changed (Table 8) and now tend to be too high. particularly
in respect of pavement and shoulder widths for low traffic roads. While
the need for strengthening or upgrading existing roadway siirfaces is
apparent, there is a tendency by Vialidad to provide heavier and more
elaborate pavements than are necessary. Tn the last few years, not enough
consideration has been given to optimizing investments by the application
of stage construction principles, e.g           the roa4a"a ond arding pave-
ment strength in later years as traffic warrants.   These commnents apply to a
number of the roads in the Three-Year Plan and to the original design o
some roads included in the proposed project; the standards for these latter
hlave been m,c;difiel 'para. L4.05).
3.18      Except where foreign ad-visory services have been required by
external lenders, Vialidad has performed all engineering work (and construc-
tion super-visionj with its own forces wiitrh the resulti thati the highway con-
sulting profession in Argentina is at an early stage of development.
Although ViClidad is able to deal with a limited highway program, it is not
able to cope with the volume of project preparation work which is nai fore-
seen.  To overcome this problem and at the sane time to develop the local
consulting profession, Vialidad intends to make maximum use of local con-
sultants to fill the gap, at least for major new construction; however, as
most of these firrns have had little experience with highway work, it is
necessary that they associate themselves with foreign firms who would
provide experienced guidance until local expertise (in engineering and
economic studies) is developed.  Drafting and photogrammetry equipment are
also required to increase the output of Vialidad's present staff and
provision for such equipment is made in the loan.
E. Highway Construction
3.19      Past shortages of funds delayed payments to contractors by up to
12 months. In such circumstances Vialidad had difficulty in enforcing con-
struction schedules or specifications, and as a result the quality of
construction was irregular and construction periods were often more than
doubled. Field staff lacked authority to deal with routine construction
problems and direction from Headquarters was inadequate. Since 1965, when
the Bank established certain requirements as a condition for continuing



- 11 -
the first highway project, and particularly since 1967, many improvements
havne taken place, such as the provision of ad3equate fmuds: prompt pavments
to contractors; modernizing of specificatvions; and attention to construc-
tion schedu].es.  These 4.proynnn.es ha-.nm ?sulcd.PA in theb morem rinrrms
enforcement of c mntract coniditions. However, further improvement is
laboratories, and by engaging outside assistance to supplement Vialidad' 
.L±LU.Lt.,|  =1U9.L V.LG.J±   QUO  U-L .V LD I S"  vLouculfi  Js  .s vJ  . -*. L
since the construction activity under the Three-Year Plan is placing severe
S  L.U I Hill 1  V.J.d±L±dLU  VI±±11-l  (.V.3LLU  J.)JVJUUiLk.;  WM1t  VALL.IJJ .L 'J. IllLQU  .L A  -.
possibly the prcposed project roads. The Government has confirmed that
Vialidad nas been given the authority to engage local firm,s or- pers;Onel
to supplement its field staff.
3.20      The local construction industry is well developed and there are
over 20 large highway construction firms able to handle road contracts
ranging in value up to US$15 million equivalent per year; a iew OI these
are locally operated subsidiaries of large international firms. At pre-
sent, only Argentine firms participate in bidding for construction work.
Foreign contractors have worked in Argentina, but inflation coupled with
poor contract administration and uncertainty of payments discouraged them
from bidding in recent years. However, renewed foreign interest is
expected for the road works in the proposed project.
3.21      Highway construction is carried out under unit price contracts
let after competitive bidding.   The Bank has agreed to the request of the
Government that for contracts under the loan, post-bidding qualification
of contractors be used rather than pre-bidding qualification. The Govern-
ment agreed that a minimum period of 60 days be allowed for bidding; that
Vialidad's normal guarantee for performance of work (bank guarantee) be
increased from 5% to 10%; and that Vialidad's detailed construction cost
estimates not be macle available to bidders.
F. Highway Maintenance
3.22      The quality of maintenance work on national roads continues to be
satisfartory due largelv to the effective use of maintenance equipment pro-
cured under the first project. The organization is basically sound. Field
crews and shops are. wl organized and eouinment properly maintained.    Equip-
ment holdings are valued at around US$25 to US$30 million equivalent and
are adequates for the near future, excent for normal replacements and for
additions to account for traffic growth. There is no immediate need for
ircreasing  maintenan   1rgl1 lee^els b u nce t.he roads i n the Three-Year Plan
have been improved, the requirements for their maintenance will be reduced
for se-veral years.  The aTerage expend-ture per Ikm of the national network;
including equipment, is about US$600 equivalent, which is adequate. Assur-
ances have been obtai:,ed from the 4-"-G-oernmen  that all national high.ways,



- 12 -
maintenance shops and equipment (including the roads in the project) will
continue to be operated, maintairned anrd repair-ed in accord-ance with soLund
highway engineering practice.
3.23      Maintenance of the primary provincial roads in the more developed
provinces such as Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Santa Fe Wnd 14Mdoz1a i9 satisfac tory
hotever, it is less than satisfactory elsewhere.   The highway reconnaissa-ace
study, '"nventory and the establishment of a trfic coutg system, for
which provision is made in the project (paras. 4.09 and 4.12), and the carry-
ing out of the studies in 1970 related to the decentrualization of Valdad's
activities (para. 3.06) should provide a basis for improving maintenance at
all levels.
3.24      A system of detailed maintenance accounting was recently introduced
in Vialidad to provide management with a tool for controlling and improving
the efficiency of maintenance operations, and for planning future investment.
Conceptually the system is sound but, as it is somewhat complicated and con-
fusing to field staff, it is not fully operational. Consulting services
to improve the system are provided for under the project (para. 4.13).



4.  THE PROJECT
A. General :Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(i)  the upgrading and paving of about 796 km of three national
highways, including consultUlng ser-vices for coLstruction
supervision;
(ii)  additional consulting and expert services to:
(a)  identify a future highway investment program, and
carry out feasibility studies and detailed engineer-
:ing for selected road sections;
(b) improve the planning and administration of the
highway network;
(c) advise on transport coordination; and
(iii) misce:Llaneous equipment related to (ii) (a) and (b) above.
B. Highways to be Upgraded and Paved (Table 9, Maps 1, 3 and 4)
4.02      Route 7, Laboulaye-Mercedes (203 km) (Maps 1 and 3): The construc.-
tion of this section (at present only a lao standard earth road) will follow
the present alignment for the most part and complete a shorter paved con-
nection between Buenos Aires. Iendoza and Chile (see Map 3).  A remaining 165
km section o:e road (not included in the project) is now being constructed by
contract with Government funds and should be completed to the same standards
in early 1970. It is expected that when the new route is opened a substantial
amount of traffic wi:Ll divert imediatelv from Route 8. the lon er alternate.
Route 7 has been designed to Class II standards (Table 8) and will receive
a 7.30 m wide asphaltic concrete navement: this desien is acceptable.
40,4      Route ' and Route 2<1 Sections (Mans 1 and k)A  San Antonio Oeste-
Arroyo Verde (169 km), Uzcudum-Canadon Ferrais (222 kmj, Intersection Rouite
22 - S-n Antnmio 0este (202 km.):  Ro1te 3 is the principal artery of the
country from Buenos Aires to Tierra del Fuego and the activities in, and
nenl+nil+,-atin of, the  oiutherr. provinces n&- nhaviltr depennrden+. on havna a-n
..   ion   of   - - --         _
all-weather road. As traffic volumes are low in the south, Vialidad adopted
Class III de-i., stl-dard- (Table 8) from Bahia Blar.ca sout ards. I   le
these standards call for a total 13.30 m roadway width, comprising a 7.30 m
bit,minous surface treatm44ent plUs3,.00 am shoulders, Via'idad reduced
the surface treatment to 6.70 m due to low traffic volumes, but maintainedl
UlleI I.3 m roadway -Lwdth.  Ihe on'y gaps in paved saracinl  b
San Antonio-Oeste and Commodoro Rivadavia (a principal oil producing center)
are thie sectioLrns San Antonio Oeste-Arroyo Verdue and Uzcudum-udCanaudon
Ferrais; the improvement of these sections together with Route 251, as
described be'low, would complete a paved route throughout.



- 14 -
4.04      At present Route 251 is a poorly aligned earth road parallel to
Route 3 (Map 3).  A new alignment has been designed to Class III design
standards. A bridge to replace a ferry at about the mid-point of' Route 251
(not included in the project) is under construction by contract with
Government fumds and should be opened to traffic early in 1969. It is
expected tha-t most of the Route 3 long distance traffic will be diverted
to Route 251 when this road is improved. As a result of this diversion.
the parallel Route 3 section will become a secondary road serving only
local traffic.
4.05      The final engineering of the Route 3 and Route 2',1 sections has
been completed and is satisfactory.  The proposed 6.70 m triple bituminous
surface treatment for these sections i9 annrcnriate  ho,wver; the pronospei
shoulder width (3.30 m) was excessive in relation to traffic requirements
(about ADT 250 i-n 1970)' nnd a 1)5 m wrnithh has nrT bhen ad^rnpted bh Vi-l1idadi
(para. 3.17). The quantity and cost estimates have been adjusted according-
ly and are   t±xcry.
4-06      The following summarizes the costs of +he construction program
included in the project (para. 4.16):
Basic Cost
VS - __&-   1  /
October 1968
IJS$
1'o ad Sction C4n lul                               r       equiv.
(bill.) (mill.)
Route 7 - Laboulaye-Mercedes                  203   5.05    14.4
Route 251 - Junction Route 22-
San Antonio Oeste                 202   2.45     7.0
TE _ | n A A I . tt s A / A A 1/|        . A
Route 3   - San Antonio Oeste-Arroyo Verde    1oy   1.74     >.U
'uzcudum-Canadon Ferrais          222   3.0     8.8
Subtotal                          796  12.32    35.2
Quantity contingencies (about 10%)                  1.23     3.5
TOTAL                                  13.55    38.7
1/ Excludes contingencies for price escalation which is given in para. 4.21.
The estimates also exclude the costs of land acquisition which have a]ready
been borne entirely by the Government.



- 15 -
4.07      Con-riultirng 'Oer-r-ces 'or lonsltructlion SuperwJlsion: AdvisoYn y ser-
vices for the construction supervision of the project roads would be re-
quired to augment Vialidadis limited staff (para. 3.19).  Simlar servce.s
provided by TAM4S (US) under the first highway project were satisfactory and
Vialidad has concluded a contract with TAIVIS to coniLnue this arrangement.
C. Additional Consulting and Expert Services
Future Investment Program, Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.o8      With a view to preparing further highway projects which may be
suitable for Bank financing, Vialidad proposed pre-investment studies for
4,600 km of roads. However, while most of the road sections included need
some form of improvement, on the basis of available information many of
them appear to involve excessive investments in relation to benefits from
existing and likely future traffic and to lack priority in terms of the
country's overall needs. In addition the h,600 km were limited to the
national highway network and did not include important provincial primary
roads.
4.09      The project makes provision for the identification of a future
highway program and pre-investment studies as follows:
(:L) a reconnaissance study to screen the country's 137,000 km
of national and provincial primary networks and to identify
roads having high priority for improvement or constructioni.
The studv would provide sufficient information on the tech-
nical characteristics and economic justification of all
maior highway investment projects to enable the Government
to establish priorities and subsequently to define a national
highway plan for the period 1971-1975 with an indication of
annual levels of expenditure;
(ii) feasibility studies of about 2,500 km of highl priority
roads selected in consultation with the Bank from (i);
and
(iii) detailed engineering of approximately 2,000 km of prior-
ity rna-ds selected in crnsml-tation with the Bank. Assum-
ing costs of about US$50,000 per km, the total construc-
tion cost of the-se roads vrollld be about US$100 million
equivalent.
4.10      About four specialists from a foreign consulting firm working
with an equal nmnber of Argentine sei1ts will be recuired for the
reconnaissance stucd which would last about seven months. The feasibi-
lity studies and +he detailed engineering parts will require about six
months each to carry out and together would involve about 400 man-months
of special:Lst work.  Vialidad has contracted TMAiS to carry olut the
reconnaissance study and later to coordinate the feasibility and



detailed engineering work which would be undertaken by about four Argentine
firms in parltnershlip with other foreign firms; the coordination work wIould
require about 70 man--months of specialists' time. The reconnaissance studly
will initially focus on trhe econoriu  priorities of the road investmuentS i
the Three-Year Plan which are not yet conmritted(para. 3.16). The recon-
naissance stuldy will be financed entirely by the Go-vern-ment.
Planning and Administration
4.11      The provisions described below are included in the project to as-
sist Vialidad in strengthening its planning and administration of the highi-
way network (para. 3.06); these provisions are to be financed entirely by
the Government.
4.12      Highway Inventory and Traffic Counting System:  The existing inven-
tories of and traffic counts for the national and provincial primary netwoks,
particularly the latter, are inadequate for highway planning purposes (paras.
3.01 and 3.03).  To improve this situation up to eight specialists would be
provided for varying times during a 24-month period to assist Vialidad in
(a) carrving out an inventory of the primary networks (some 137,000 km),
(b) devising and initially operating a detailed traffic counting system for
the primary networks, including origin and destination studies, and (c) in
training its staff which would take over the operation of (a) and (b).   Unllike
the reconnaissance study (para. 4.09), the inventory would not examine in-vest-
ment requirements but would examine in detail the full lengthl of primary net-
works for their quality and characteristics, with emphasis given to maintenance
requirements, organization and the administrative aspects of managing the
networks. Vialidad has requested the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) to pro-
vide specialists for the above tasks; the provision of services in this manner
would be satisfactory and is under consideration by BPR. Should BPR be unable
to supply them, they will be provided by a suitable foreign consulting firm.
4.13      Cost Accounting:  While accounting now meets Government's fiscal
accounting requirements, the establishment of an efficient internal costing
system for maintenance (as described in para. 3.2h) and construction is
urgently required. Vialidad lacks the expertise to formulate such a system
which is essential for cost control, programming, forecasting expenditures,
and in preparing cost estimates. Vialidad contracted a group of Argentine
management experts to study its accounting methods. the report of the study
and its detailed recommendations should be available in July 1969.
Transport Coordination
4.14      As described in para. 2.09 and Annex 2, the project provides for
two transport specialists to assist the Ministry of Transport in transport
coordination matters. Such assistance is to be given over a period of two
years.  The arrangements for the emplovment of these experts was discussed
during negotiations, and the Bank is expecting the Government's confirmation
of them shortlyv



- 17 -
D. Miscellanieous Equipment
4.15      If the improvements in administration, -.-lanning and. pre-paration
of highway projects are to be effective, certain equipment must be pur-
chased. A detailed 'List of the reauirements will be worked out by Vialidad
in collaboration with the coordinating consultants for the pre-investment
studies! howmver. it is estimated that US$500.000 equivalent would cover
the needs. An allowance in this amount has been made in the proposed loan.
The equipment wouilAd conmprise such items as scales to cnntrol vehiclt
weights (para. 3.08), field laboratory equipment (para. 3.19); highway
inventory item.s, traffi-c cominters, speed detectors (para. 3-05); nnd
drafting and photogrammetry equipment (para. 3.18).
E. Cost Est:imetes and Financing
4.16      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$50 million equ:Lv-
a L Dn, .L.A .LUCLJ.J..L. contiW.ngency allowances 1=-AV tJ,4e c.s t of LJ. tuL cou'tin s eUc. IJ6 dU e.rcs
which the Government has decided to finance entirely with its own funds for
WIU etrI.LU L_i:; U  IOUiUy, LL4IlWay LVeIIUIIty cUdLL UiJc.L.LU %LAVLU L±UV n   ssiIll, costu
accounting, and transport coordination (paras. 4.10 and 4.11). A summary of
uth pruojeu      andL ithe nanK!s p  LU4IJt.UIon $'olluws aid is also U giLver  ii
detail in Table 10.
N$N (billions)     US$ (millions)  % Bank
Govt Bank Total    Govt Bank Total Prci-.c'
1. Construction of 7(96' im of-
highways.                         6.16 6.16 12.32    17.60 17.60 35.20  '50
2. Consulting services for supervi-
sion of (1) above                 0.14 0.21  0.35     0.40  0.60  1.00   60
3. AdditionaL consulting and expert
services for:et
(a) highway recowiaissance study  0.14  -    0.14    0.40    -    0.40    0
(b) execu-tion and coordination of
highway feasibility studies
& detailed engineering         0.70 1.05  1.75    2.00  3.00  5.oo   60
(c) improvement of planning and
administration of the high-
way network                   0.35   -    0.35    1.00   -    1.00    0
(d) transport coordination        0.07  -    0.07    0.20    -    0.20    0
4. Equipment related to (2) and
(3)(b)(c) above, and weighing
scales                             -   0.17   0.17     -    0.50  0.50  100
Subtotals        7.5  7.59 15.15    21.60 21.70 43.30
Contingencies, 15% rounded
(10% for cuantities, 5% for prices)1.19 1.16  2.35    3.40  3.30   6.70
Totals           8.75 8.75 17.50   25.00 25.00 50.00
*is the prerequisites for the execution of (b) are the timely completion
of (a) and the conculrrent execution of the services for (c) and (d), Items
(a), (c) and (d) are considered to be an integral part of the project.



- 18 -
4.17      The construction cost estimate is based on October 1968 estimates
(TLable, i7).        -5U.i   -usdU fur this es atime were taken froma detailed engineer-
ing studies (adjusted for shoulder width reductions) and unit prices from
cont'racts recently awarded to domestic contractors for similar works, and
reviewed by Vialidadts consultants (TAMS); the estimates, including contingen-
cies (see para. 4.21), are considered to be satisfactory.
4.10      Tne total costs of consulting services for items 2 and 3(a) are
based on concluded contracts (paras. 4.07 and 4.10). The costs of the remain-
ing consulting and expert services have been estimated on the probable number
of man-months required applying average local and foreign man-month rates.
For item 4 the estimate representing the foreign exchange cost of imported
equipment (CIF) is based on a preliminary list of equipment requirements.
4.19      The foreign exchange cost of the consulting services for item 3(b)
could vary widely depending upon whether the services were given by foreign
consulting firms alone or in combination with Argentine firms. In view of the
probable substantial participation by local consulting firms and in order that
the financing arrangements should not affect the choice of firms, it is p:ro-
posed to finance the cost of suitably qualified Argentine consultants in the
same proportion as would have been the case had foreign consultants been
employed. Experience with the first highway project and other countries about
equal to Argentina's level of technical development suggests that 6O% would be
a representative figure for services provided by a foreign consulting firm.
This percentage has been applied to determine the Bank's contribution.
4.20      The consultants' estimate of the foreign exchanLe comnonent of
construction costs, as adjusted by Bank staff, is about 30% if all work was
carried out by local contractors qnd about. liq if all work t.was rtarried niot.
by foreign contractors. Assuming that one-third of all the work goes to
foreign contrPctors (npra. 3.20)- the foreign exchange co.mponent w.Touild be
35%. The loan would finance this component and a portion of the local currency
cost representing 15I% of total constructi on c-%osth; s tth.e Bltk ' l f
501% of such total cost.
4.21      As the project costs have been based on fully verified constructiort
rmai.rti+y   cstn!.Jrsn   o-_,n. Mllo.nvnce~   of 1n,V  has be1 en   r-le   fo- unoreseen   qu-tit;+,
-J- -                  - - - - --fVL *%l   -  I UJfl  -S4L   JX &  ,,AA .1 x.  .. wrL   tfl.L  -J   C .4t&04S 'j.
increases. A 5% allowance for price contingencies has been provided for
loca ad f       ; cost. 4,ncreases betUween 1  'ale of estZ IJ1 A. J1 on I4. (October I 4,
and the award of contracts, and during the course of the project.
4.22      In summary it is proposed that the Bank participate in the project
ins the followring m=anner:
(a) fifty percent of construction costs;
(b)  s ixty percent of the cost of consulting services for
supervision and for execution and coordination of high-
way feasibility studies and detailed engineering; and
(c) the foreign exchange cost of equipment (CIF).



4.23      Construction is expected to commence in the third quarter of 1969
cund be copleted in the third quaurter ofI 971 consulting services for the
feasibility and detailed engineering studies should be ccmpleted in the
first quarter of I 971.  n this basis, the tentative annual breakdown of ex-
penditures between the Government and the Bank would be as follows:
Total               N$N (billion)        US$ Equiv. (mill.)
'vk-     -uS$ Equlv.     Govt.   Bank         Govt.     Bank
(billion)    (million)      Share   Share        Share     Share
1969     1.1          3.1          0.6     0.5          1.8       1.3
1970     9.3         26.5          4.6     4.7         13.1      13.4
1971     7.1         20.4          3.5     3.6         10.1      10.3
Totals  17.5         50.0          8.7     8.8         25.0      25.0
Any surplus funds remaining in the Loan Account on completion of the project
should be cancelled.
F. Execution of the Project
4.24      The loan would be to the Government of Argentina and the executing
agency would be the National Highway Department (Vialidad) assisted by quali-
fied consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank as
described above. The project construction contracts would be let on the
basis of unii, prices after international comoetitive bidding and in accorcl-
ance with the B-ank's established bidding procedures. The value of indivi--
dual contracts would range from UlS$1 5 million equ-ivalent to TTS$2i6 million
equivalent. In order to attract foreign bidders but at the same time enable
local cntracntors to bid for works of a size appropriate to their capabill-
ties, the Govrernment agreed to group the individual works into packages of
2 to 4 contracts. Each npckage wnuld 'hid h  sim il1tq-^onii1v and hids wouldc
be allcot*ed for any or all works in the group (Table 9). The packages woul]d
r,nge in value frnm US$4.0 to TTSt77 ;milliaon equiinTrn1P.
2      TPA.  ill ..;1  -odrlde the  -cso- --rv- for c- r-o-Q on Q      -
-_ -_ K --_ -_                w      - _V1- v fi i -Z VX1 "_ - -  SJ _ V-
sion of the project roads (para. 4.07), the execution of the reconnaissance
st+iirdr (mny. 4.10) I1' d subseq-P ,s4y c4or a- of h f              std.es
and detailed engineering work to be carried out by other consultants.  The
,,rits of V.. qWLJ..MIJ.s4 propo sa.l ar.ehaU (.i) Vi 'ida.LdL" s aw mLIstine worklo, --A
related to consultant. employment would be kept to a minimum; (ii) TAMS ha<
IAILLkVUU       V.J4  V.L.L.J.LUCLLL CL±t."  ±0  Ajt:%&JJU1 IU1t-U  ±U1±  t   LJi~~LUL±I  dUIly
(iii) their employment permits the prompt starting of a number of urgent
iLtUt.:  The .llz< hWas 1ad; grveedu tU hisj prupuoal.  incu arranger-MenUs  ur uontiu±U-
ing services in respect of the feasibility and detailed engineering studies
-wi-ll be finalized when tne scope oI work is estaD'lisned during the recon-
naissance stutdy (para. 4.09).  The arrangements for consulting and expert
ser-vices for uuu impro-verrnt Of highway pianning (paras. h.12 and L4.13)



- 20 -
were discussed during negotiations and have been confirmed by the Government.
h.26      The benefib of all the various consulting and expert services
which are being provided under this loan will not be fully realized unless
a sufficient number of counterparts are assigned to key subjects. The Gov-
ernment has agreed to assign counterparts accordingly.
L.27      As most of the equipment to be financed from the loan consist of
small numbers of highly specialized equipment of relatively low cost, it
is proposed that individual items or groups of similar items whose cost
does not exceed US$10,000 equivalent should be procured on the basis of
limited local bidding. The remaining items would be purchased following
the Bank's normal international competitive bidding requirements.



- 21 -
f-  rnThTC1M7(  tT1'TTAT~ T -TA -r?N
-,.*  ifUV14 VJ±lL 1, fP, VI .jA J.IIV \
,,. T-+ro-4uc:4j-o
..J.     IIAU. 1LLt   j.JJ U  I)  J_4,L.LA%A4-   U111:  U.V-61 "UJU46A   V..n  'SL4  '-  '-5-  -1   - -.'*  .'   - 
national roads. These are Route 7, which connects Buenos Aires with the
.-es ce n tr a. p rovne  up t Menoza aril Ihe Cle an ronir     dRue
3 and 251 which ccnnect Buenos Aires with the southern provinces.   The
quantifiXable benefits produced by the project road c istructon comsprise
(i) reduction in vehicle operating costs due to road upgrading; (ii) traf-
-Li  iUduced by these reduct(ioub; (ili) reductions in journiey cost  as a
result of savings in distance; (iv) savings in maintenance costs; and
(v) decongestion benefits for traffic remaining on those routes from, which
some diversion uill take place to the project roads once they are upgraded.
Details concerning the benefit calculations for the project road sections
are given irn Annex 3.
B. Route 7, Laboulaye-M"Iercedes Section (flap 3)
5.02      The zcne of influence of Route 7 ccntains about 137,000 km2 west
of Buenos Aires in the privinces of Santa Fe, Cordoba, San Luis, San Juan
and Mendoza.  The 1967 population of the zone was 1.9 million, of which about
one-third was in seven principal urban centers.  The soil, topography and
temperate climate of the eastern part of the zone are favorable for cattle
raising and for agriculture and permit good yields of grain. The area
contains about 2.6 million cattle (6S' of the country's total) and 1.3 mil-
lion sheep. In the area of Mendoza, with the help of irrigation, many
Icinds of fruit are grows7n, the most important of which are grapes (229,000
hectares of vineyards are under cultivation). Practically all the produc-
tion of wine, fruit and preserves is transported to Buenos Aires, mostly
by road. Mendoza has proven oil reserves of 120 million m3 and an annual
production cf 5.4 million m3. Other minerals extracted are lead, vanadium,
wolfram, zinc, copper and uranium.
5.03      A well established pattern of traffic allocation exists on the
parallel road and rail routes in the corridor between Ruenos Aires and
Mercedes (H4ap 3).  Although the prcposed upgrading of Route 7 to paved
standards will reduce the distance between Buenos Aires and i-lendoza and
cities further west by 36 kim, this pattern is unlikely to clhange; however,
this reduction would attract users from Route 8 to Route 7. As a result
of this diversion, the induction of new traffic and allowing for normal
growth, 1971 openin&- year ADT will total about 730 vehicles compared with
a 1967 ADT of about 250. The rate of return on the proposed investment is
13%.
C.  The Route R and Route 251 Sections (Map l4)
5.0)i     These sertions totalling 591 km in length are:
(i)  Route 3 (169 lin)j Sqn Antonio OestP-Arrnvo VPrde!
(ii) Route 3 (222 km), Uzcudum-Canadon Ferrais;
(iii) Roue 251 (202 kn), Ttersecton Route 22-S-n Antnrio 0est ^



- 22 -
Tle last section, once upgraded, will become a substitute for a part of the
present, Ronuni 3 and is, thrfnrT . n consirderer together with the other two=
All the three sections form part of the ccun try's chief link with its sout1hern
nrovinces, a link with a total length of 3,100 km from Buenos Aires to Ti.erra
del Fuego.
5.05      The scuthern provinces of Rio Negro, Chubut and Santa Cruz (together
krnown as Pat;agonia) have an area of 672,000 n   (23, of the national total),
but a 1967 population of only 450,000 (about 20 of the country's total).
The terrain is fllat with sparse vegetation.  The climate is semi arid to
desert and comes under the influence of Antarctic iwinds. Farming is limited
to t   r   .   of a,'ou oIJUU U U Une-thir  of the wit: UUI11±ty  49 miL±±ullo sh1tep.  ouiUy
to fifty thousand tons of wool are produced annually and shipped north tc,
5.C6 Patagonl5a's mOst important resources are minerals, of which oil is
the most prominent.  Proven oil deposits amount to about 500 million tons and
anuaal producti -lon has reached 8.5 mlli-on tons in Chubut ana Santa uruz.
There are also coal deposits estimated at L[O million tons and an annual
production Of about 400,000 tons.  The oil and coal are transported either
by pipeline or by coastal shipping and hence do not directly demand road
transport, bLut as a result of these activities a number of oil and mining
tow-rns have sprung up mainly along the coast, the largest of which are Comodoro
Rivadavia (population 17,000), Rio Gallegos (21,400) and Trellew (17,000).
These towns are almost totally dependent on the north for food and other
consumer goods, as are mines and oil wells for their supplies.   Although
there are a number of minor ports along the Patagonian coastline, they can-
not operate with the flexibility required for general cargo in small volumes.
Route 3, therefore, constitutes the transport lifeline of Patagonia.
5.07      The benefits produced by the upgrading of the three project road
sections are (i) reductions in vehicle operating costs, and (ii) savings
in road maintenance costs. In the case of Route 251, there are additional
benefits due to the shlortening of distances and induced traffic. Route 251
parallels Route 3, but is 54 km shorter; when upgraded, the present long
haul traffic on the parallel Route 3 section will be diverted to Route 251.
A recent origin-and-destination survey shows that based on 1967 ADT's the
traffic so diverted will total 65 vehicles, consisting of 38 heavy trucks,
10 medium truclks and 17 light vehicles. The 1971 opening year ADT will
total 300 vehicles compared to a 1967 ADT of about 125.
5.08      The following rates of return have been arrived at for the
project road sections:
(i)   Intersection Route 22-San Antonio Oeste     yz'
(ii)  San Antonio Oeste-Arroyo Verde             i14
(iii) Uzcudum-Canadon Ferrais                    10%
These rates nf return are hbasr on the modifi f 2ti on of the design standards
described in para. 4.05.



- 23 -
6.   T.  r11M A m-r nivreC
Li.  nEU2UUYVir'ITh -1L .L UIIJ.
6.01      During negotiaticns agreement was reached with the Government
on the follow-ing principal points:
(i)  The appointment of consultants for project construction
supervision and the highway reconnaissance study (para.
4.-25%';
(i:i) the importance of evaluating the economic merits of road
construction plans and that due account will be taken of
these merits in the formulation of such plans (para. 3.12).
6.02      V:Lalidad has also written to the Bank stating its policies with
respect to:
(C) the intended decentralization which will lead ultimately
to a transfer of its highway functions to the provinces
(para. 3.04);
(ii)  the employment of consultants and experts for the super-
vision of the works of the Three-Year Plan (para. 3.18);
(iii)  the employment of experts to assist Vialidad in making
a highway inventory and devising a traffic counting sys-
tem (para. h.12);
(iv)  the employment of experts to study and make recommenda-
tions on its accounting methods (para. h.13):
6.03      The Bank is awaiting the Government's oonfirmation that it wilL
employ experts to assist in transport coordination matters (para. U.14).
6.ob      The project is technically sound and economically justified.
It constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$25 million ecuivalent.
On the basis of the economic life of the project highways, an appropriate
term would be 2q years. includinpg a foulr-year perinod of gracp.
June 10, 1969



ARGENTINA
SECOND HIOlWAY PROJECT
Freigit Traffic By Modes of Transport 1950-66
(millions of ton km)
Coastal                       River          Pipe
Year         Total        Highways        Railways             Shipping                    Transport       Line
io50        29 -0h          7 j652         A16;20                            5.189                          93
1-51H       32,049          8,67           16,479                             6,812                         151
1952        32,094          8,212          15,256                             8,434                         192
1953        33,5'5          9,681          15,016                             8,597                         248
1954        34,183          9,468          15,197                             9,234                         284
1955        35,129          9,502          15,392                             9,941                         294
i956                       10135,918  10,01  u,870              ,920                         3,719          318
1957        35,662         10,263          14,367               6,481                        3,720          831
1958        37,999         11,346          13,835               8,339                        3,670          809
1959        40,723         1,411           15,530               8,974                        3,798        1,010
1960        47,084          14,216         15,188              11,437                        4,135        2,108
1961        56,048          17,645         14,014              16,232                        4,624        3,533
1962        57,988          19,613         10,959              17,927                        4,898        4,591
1963        56,707          19,406         10,695              17,439                        4,623        4,544
1964        62.897          20.618         12,560              20,102                        5,221        4,396
1965        70,488          23,532         14,186              19,945                        5,153        7,672
1966        69,499          23,169         13,798              19,917                        5,579        7,036
Source: Ministry of Econcmy
March 21, 1969



ARGENTINA
SEROND HITSAY PROJECT
Incidence o0 User Charges On Vehicle Operating Costs
(in 1968 M$N per vehicle kilcmeter)
6.5-Ton Capacity Freiegt       20-Ton Capacity Truck ard
Typical Passenger Car              Vehicle                  Trailer Combina.tion
(Gasoline Super)                (Gasoline)                    (Diesel)
With Tax   W/o Tax    % Tax     With Tax   W/o Tax   % Tax    With Tax    W/o Taw   % Tax
Fuel                         2.06      1.03      50%        6.6       3                     .32       3.09    7%
Lubricants                    .09       .08-     11%         .30        .25      17%        .96       .81    16%
Tire                          .92       .59      36%        5.61       4.09      27%      11.01      8.10     26%
Depreciation                 5.10      4.59      10%'/      8.83       7.95      10%      15.99     14.40    10.
Interest                     3.15      2.84      10% V      4.42      3.98      10%        5.91      5.32    :LO
Maintenance (Parts)         :1.64      1.48      10o%       7.80      7.01       10%      10.34      9.31    10%
Maintenance (Labor)           .34       .34      -          1.2       1.24       -         1.70      1.70     -
Crew W'ages                   -         -        -          4.-5      4 45       -        12.01     12.01     -
Insurance                    1.46      1.46      -          1.78      1.78       -         2.06      2.06     -
Overheads                     -         -                   1.34      1.34       -         2.40      2.40     -
License                       .67       -       10(%         .33       -       loo0         .10       -      100%
Total Vehicles              15.43     12.4L      19i       42.78     35.43       17%      65.88     59.20     10%
1/ The actual tax rate is 25%, the difference being identified as the "general taxation component."
Source: Ministry of Economy
AarcfL 21, 1969



TABLE 3
ARGENTINA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Revenues From Principal User Taxes
(in billions of 1968 M$N)
Petrol        Tires       Transfer        Emergency       Total
and Lubricants                   Tax              Tax
1962                       10.3           1.8          1.7                            _ 13.8
1963                       20.i.                        . 1                             I
J2%014                     214.1 I.1                    .0               =           3
196,                       214.h          h.3          6.2               -           3h.9
106                        3                           6.7              82.6
1967                       55 1            .           6.9              0.       -   70.L
1968                       82.0          20.           6.5               -         109.0*
(142.0)-
Source: Ministry of Economy.
*1he difference between the 1968 M$N 142 billion figure appearing in
pa-a 3.09 of the main text and the 109.0 billion figure that appears in
the table is accounted for by license charges for 1963 of MSiN 1.3 bill.ion
an, ta:ces on the production of vehicles of AMSN 15 billion.
^larch ?i, 1969



JiXGNTP4A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Federal and Provincial Government Hihway Expenditures 1963-1968    /
(in millions of 1968 M$N)
1963      1964      1965      1966      1967      1i6bd-
A. C    ent   nse
1.  Administration Federal Govermeent               1,179     1,894      2,h01     4,017     5,083     5,1372
2.  Administration Provincial Gover-nent            2.593     3.7B3     5,377      7,543     8.721     9,650
Total Administration                      3,552      5,6i      7,77S    11,560    13,80i    155,4
3.  Maintenance Federal Administration              i,943     3,066     3,572      5,811     7,736     8,076
h. Maintenance Provincial Administration            2,234     3,062      5,74.     7,873     8,931    15,425
5. Equipment Purchases (Federal Govermnent)           530     1,050        780       865     2,281     3,600
Total N(aintenane           4__             707 7_176         10.093    11,459   18,948    27 ,fi
Uotal Currernt Exp-ense a                  ,74   1   2, 95    17,671    26,10C9   32.752    4 2,62
1. Construction
National Highway Syste2/                        6,956     8,241      6,626    10,084    17,321    40,532
Provincial Primary System                       3,061     4,6o       5.579     6.231     9,708    21,497
Other Provincial Roads                            421     1,995      3,511     8,791    10,413    13,500
Federal Access Roads & Miscellaneous3/          1,595     2,962      2,877    4,231      5,003     6,050
Total Cons=ructi n                       12,033    17,556     16,593    2,34      14 *4   D     - 7
Total Expernditures                      20512     30,411     36,46b    55,449    75,195   124, Zt
1/ Federal goverenent expenditures are on a cSah basis, deferred Paents being
registered as they appear. Provincial government expenditure^ are budge_ted f"guares
2/ There is an outstanding debt of 3.5-4.0 billion pesos on investments executed
during this period where pqmtent has been deferred.
3/ Federal goverrnment share only.
/ Estimates only.
June 10, 1969



TABLE 5
ARGENTINA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cozmposition of the HighwyMNetworks
(Kilameters)
A. National Network (Primary Trunk Roads) 1/
Portland Cement    Bituminous   Gravel or
or Asphaltic      Surface       Stabilized            Earth
Year            Concrete 2/        Treatment    Base          Earth   Tracks   Totals
1961                4,730            6,851        8,006       20,867  6,1142   46,596
1962                4,810            6,973         8,278      20,400  6,1112   46,603
1963                4,973            7,59:L       7,869       19,513  6,0(7    45,953
1964                4,973            7,547        7,869       19,439  6,0(7    45,835
1965                6,10             8,563        8,819       17,339  5,0143   45,868
1966                6,104            8,563        8,819       17,339  5,0143   45,868
1967                6,061           10,313        9,414       15,038  4,6:L5   45,Lh1
1968 (Jan.)         6,500           11,792        7,957       15,223  4,395    45,867
9. Provincial Network
avs. ~or
Stabilizcce                  Earth
Paved       Base             Earth       Tracks       Totals
196o- rrimary       9,100         1.0,100       37,500       314,100     91j100
±66 oSecondary                                         800,000 -800,000
and Tertiary
J .ny reducton ln totLal       h -ent  of ne-ok or type of road- pared to
tot.qls for previous years is due to improvement which shortened length
anti/or upgrading which shifted the affected roads to a higher category.
2/ Less than 200 Icn are 4-lane highways; all other roads in network
are two-lanes, except for tracks VIhich are one-lane.
3/ No earlier data available
/ No data available; estimate is approxf-riate  d  these corprise earth
roads and tracks.
Source: Vialidad
June 10 1969



TABLE t6
ARGENTINA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
(in '000's)
Private
Vehicles       Buses       Trucks       Trailers       Total
1960                       1473.5        14.?         377.7         38.3          903.8
1961  ~ ~ ~~~~qh.9                1Lh.2        h23.6         41.7        i,oil.4
1962                       624.3         15.6         470.O         h5.9        1,1L55.8
]963                       696.8         16.8         502.6         L8.6        1.2614.8
1964                       805.7         19.1         55365         53.2        1,431.5
1,65                       91h.6        1. 8      ~     h 55653                 l$L¶.O
1966                     1,030.5         21.7         602.6         62.7        1,717.5
1967                     1,0n1.         22017__                     6L1~.       1.78q.B
fl row 1, . ..  RaYCJ
1lfl6j-1 9C,7                12           6.            7.3          7.7           10 2
-i7U'J L7'Jf                              6.8                        1
1964 1967                   10.3          6.0           3.7          6.5             7.7
Source: V-iaaiadad
iarch 21., 1969



TABLE 7
ARGENTINA
SECOND HIGHFAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumption
A.  National Totals
in '000 cubic meters
Petrol        (2  i.l I       tal
1960              2P-97JI 02R1.8               3 F7R A
1961               3,119.9      1,550.4        4,670.3
1952               34)37.0      1,920.9        5,357 * 7
1963               3,337.3      2,073.2        5,410.2
I _                  79A A      9 CAO '7       A ' 2c
1965               4,124.7      2,751.2        6,875.9
1966               tS,362.h     29,851.3       7,213.7
1967               4,738.6      3,145.0        7,883.6
Growjt.h RAtes n(%)l                1 06Ot- 047              -1iri1467
National Totals   all fuels            10.7                     8.1
petrol                9.0                     8.3
gas oil) 13                                   7.8
'ource: Vialidad
June 10, 1969



TABLE 8
ARGEN7TINA
SECOND HIGHIAY PROJECT
Desiszn Standards for National Roads,
--------Class of Highway---------
2       III       IV       v
Design        5,000-     1,500-   500-       150-
ADT        1j.000               1.500      500    <15
Desi-n Sneed.           flat              130      120       110       100      90
km/ih                rolling            110      100        90        70      50
moirntninourn      80        70        60       J1n      30
l4ini.m.ntim 1nr17flflt23nt.al  <J        rZ7A  00 So00                16),     3B0
Radius, m            rolling            500      ho        300       160       80
molunainous       950       160       190       5°
,iaxinim G-rade, n     flat                3        3                            A 6  6
rolling            5         5         6        7         8
mounta-n Ous       6         7         7
Sight Risnc- fat U6. 220 1RA n                                          1i
Stoppin7, m          roll-ing           185      160       135        9u      60
n7.ountanousl11         °O        75        '5 30
Q-ign4 41s4arc for     ft                 PAn n0 80           1.n      6B0     6Lo
Passing, m           rolling            740      680       610       470      330
moun ,n  in Ou>_-  el.n     Inn r     I .nn    nt)4n    ion
^ ^ w Eiti];il ts tItLit 121L  11;   ( | d 4  { * v4u  14 1 v  v u  cuv  L .v
'Pavem.-,-U-t4A~        CPI.4 47 rt                r7 jfln             C -n     .n
£avctIicilLA  tr,..LU I, zi  .L.J-La  *)J.L             f .)Uv   U. (U    U
rolling           7.50      7.30     6.70      6.70     6.oo
-' rxnn u  70  n6   6. '70,    'r.7   6 .n
UIUWIjdJU~~iU   I.uu     U. V       .       U. (U    u. vu
Shoulder Width, m      flat               3.00     3.00      3          .30 3.50
rolling           3.00      3.00      3.30     3.30     1.50
mut 4        :    2 f       n An,     , n,1)   I nA,    I MI
IILnJjjlaJ..i..Lvu,O  J)aVV  Cot/U    IU        . C).V  _L . VU
Width of Bridges        Structures 10 m long or less: total width equals pave-
ment width plus shoulders.    Structures more than 10 m
long: 8.30 m
Notes
1T /  ~zc c: -.n,nwAay-i TmCr-o  r sdnn+oal 4 n 1 CA?  fl.v4Ac,ae  -P nenaA4., A-1,n'
1,  _ _ '            _'_           _  .. -'S  I  -L 5-  -    .L          J
German standards "DIN-1075$" as modified and set forth in the Vialidad
stanclard design mrnual (in use in   968) ernti+led Ima.ses pa a elCalculo
de Puentes de Hormigon Armado."    Pavement design is based on a 12,000
lb. wheel load eqnivalent.
2/ The iRoute 7 section included in the project' is designed to these
standards and wrill receive an asphaltic concrete pavement.
3/ The Route 3 and 251 sections included in the project are designed to
these standards except t1hat the pavement and shoulder widths will not exceed
6.70 m and 1.50 m respectively; the pavement for these sections will be a
triole bh Luminous surface treatment.
tJune 1u. 1'SI9



-CO.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F AI-n"^         V.O  0
A 1p  ria ThjI'TM.T   A D%T1f
Roadsm to Wu 'upgraded andu Cost% mO'a%0tes0
NLo.   o4 sivCs s .......Ae
,~J~A.JL~AJ  LLLUflYYfA L  A 1LAJUSJ'J.
Subsec-         October i968 
T   --.t.  tion 2-- %/  -1;1N      'Jv7quiv
(km:                 (billions)(mili
1. Route 7. Lab'ouiaye-Mercedes
T 1-^.'1   M vrn_                       07 7                    0 7A       7 7
Mackenna-Border Cordoba/San Luis        68.2        2           1.68       4.8
Border Cordob     t  uTii4-l --cedes    ,7.0        _             A7       1.0
203.1~~~~~~~~n              I 14.4
O D-4fi+A Oel  T-,,--4-n no_1 4 A_                                  * A
San Antonio C)este                     202.1        4           2.45       7.0
3. Route 3, San Antonio Oeste-
Au-royo Verud                          16VU. I                  L.74 f).
L.Route 3, Uzcud-UM,L-.lL,anadon FerisL.L
Uzcudu-MlLaEspina                      1U04.2                   1. j40     4.0
Malaspina-Carnadon Ferrais             117.9        3           1.68       4.8
Subtotal                         222.1                   3.08        8.8
Total ],2,3,4                    796.0                  12.32       35.2
Quantity contingencies
(aoout iuj)
Grand Total                                               1.23        3.5
13.55       38.7
Notes
1/ Excludes contingencies for price increases, which are given in para 4.21.
They also exclude the cost oI iand acquisition which is borne entirely by
the Government.
2/ To attract a wide interest from local and foreign contractors, most of tnEt
sections would be divided into 2 to 4 parts for the purposes of international
bidding and for each section suitably qualified contractors would have thei
option of bidding on any or all subsections.
June 3, 1969



ARGEN TINA
SECONi) HIGH1I4Y PROJECT
Project Cost Estinstes
L968 M$N (billions)                                                            Uts$ Equivalent (millions)
1969          1970 _     _ 1971_            Totala3           i of BaLnk        [9t09        1970          1971             Totalo
Item                              Govt. Bank   Gcrt. Bank   Govt. Bank    Govt. Bank  Total       Participation  Govc. Bank    Govt. Bank   Govt. Bank    Govt. Bank Total
I. Upgrading of Routes 3, 7 anid 251        n! 5    .3O   3. 1  3.19   '.66   2.66  6.16   6.16  12.32           W0         1.00   1.CO   9.D0  9.00   7.60   7.60   17.60  17.60  35.20
II. Consulting Services fcor S.'er-i                0.02   0.07  0.11   (.06   0.08  0.14   0.21  0.35            60         0.01  o.C6  0.'20  0.30   0.16   0.24   0.40  0.60    1.00
vision of I.
III. Additionlal CornsultinLj and IFPert
Services for:
A. Uden.Hti`-iTon of Futuar Road Prc-
gram and Preirnvestment Studies 2/
(i) Highway Recconnaissance Study -        0.ah     -      -     -      -      -   0.114    -    0.1h4           C         0.40     -     -      -      -      -    0.40    -     0.40
(ii) Feasi'bility Studies of up to
2,500 km of Roads Selected from.
(i) above 1/                             -      -    0.17  0.25     -      -   0.17   0.25   0.42           6t)          -      -   0.148  0.72     -      -     0.48  0.72   1.20
(iii) Detailed En&ineering of uip to
2,000 km of Roads Selected from.
(ii) above I!                            -      -    0.28  0.42   t).21  0.31   0.49  0.73   1.22           6t)          -      -   0.Bo   1.20   0.60   ().90   1.40  2.10   3.50
iv) Coordiatiork of (i) and (ii)
above                                                 .036                                                               -      -    0.08  0.12   0.04   0.06    0.12  0.18   0.30
Subtotal A                            0.214        o.48   0.72  0.22   0.33   o.84  1.05   1.89                      0.4(0    -    1.36   2.04  0.6h4  1.96    2.40   3.00  5.40
B. Improvemsent of' the P]annin  and
Administration of the Highwray
Network
(i) Highway Inventorl1amd Traffic
Countinig System_                          -     -    0.17     -   0.11     -    0.28     -   0.28            C)          -      -    0.50     -   0.30     -     0.80    -   0.80
(ii) Cost Accounting 2/                      0.02     -   0.05     -      -      -   0.07     -    0.07            C)        0.05     -   0.15     -     -       -    0.20    -    0.20
Subtotal                              0.02 C       0.22     -    t.11    -    0.35     -   0.35                      0.05;    -    0.65     -   0.30     -     1.00    -   1.00
C. Advice on Trarsport Coordination         o.0l     -    0.04    -    O.Q2     -    0.07    -    0.07             )        0.0     _ -   0.10   _     0.05     _     0.20   -    0.20
Subtotal III                           I17         0.74   0.72  0.35   0.33   1.26   1.05  2.31                      0.50     -    2.11   2 0o4  0.99  0.96    3.60  3.00  6.60
IV. W ighLn; Scales and 21(iscell.aneous
EquiDn it el cLtesd to 7I E) Rd
lIII JTT[BTabove                            -   0.03     -    0.11     -   0.03     -    0.17  0.17           1Ot)         -    0.10     -    0.30     -    0.10     -   0.50   o.50
V. Contingencies                             0./ 10  0005  0.62  0.60  0.47   0.51   1.19   1.16  2.35                      0.26   0.2_   1.79   1.76  1.35   '.140   3.40 2-2    6.70
Total P-oject Cost                        o.63  o.45   4.58   4.69   1.54  3.61   8.75   8.75  17.50                     1.80   1.3;0 13.10  13.40  10.10  10.30  25.00 25.00  50.00
Notes:
I/ A large amount of local consulting services -s to be urovided and it is recommended that the 3ank finance the cost of these
services in the saine proportion as if they ))ad beeni provided by foreign firms alone. On this basis, Eank particip.ation
toward the total cost of the items marked 1 has been taken at 60% (para. 14.19)
2/ Vialidad has decided to f'inance the erntire cost of these studies.
> '  vUr;ir.ercyallv"rc  ;*rabv-t 1> has'ee - povi:ded fc-, all :Itamz, as deszri-hpd in para. .2L'1' for quar.titic:a
and/or unforeseen nieeds, and about 5% for prices).
June LO, 1969



Annex 1
Page 1
ARGENTINIA
SECOND HIGHWJAY PROJECT
The First Highway Project and Other External Assistance for Highways
1.        The first 3ank hightiay loan (283-AR) of US,A48.5 million equiva:Lent
rias made in June 1961 to finance the foreign exchange cost of improving
2,600 Ian of nationa:L highways (see Map 1), including advisory services
by consultants, and road maintenance equipment. At the time of the
loan a study of Argentina's transport system was underway with United Nations
Special Fundi (UNSF) finnn_i g (UST520O0O equivalent),. the Bank
acting as Executing Agency; the study was completed in early 1962 and the
results pubLished as the Long Range Transportation Plan (TRTP)L
°.        A njor r       inve+ment program was undertaken in 19q5 after a dec-
ade of limited activity in the highway sector.  Although the National Highway
Department's (Vialidlad) capacity to u.ndertake this program was limited
when the Bank's first loan was made,there was good reason to believe that the
A.               1._.           DhIL, t-1-e "Irn  lendrhi. Tpree-an i hncn in
deficiencie; cou-lAd bbe overcom,e wilhtesrn     edrsi     rlriigi
Vialidad at that time and the use of consultants. However, with a series
of changes in Goveriment an d Vialidad    ageent begiing with 1962, the
construction schedu:Le was not met and consultants were not used properly..
Road works scheduled for completion in two or three years took twice ltha
time to complete at increased costs and with auestionable quality,and Vialidad.-.
organization deteriorated to its pre-1959 level.
3.        The first highway project was also severely affected uy lack ouJ
local funds and in :L963 USAID made a loan of US$30.5 million to cover the
project's local currency cost.  After unsuccessful efforts by the Banx to
improve execution of the work, the Bank loan was reduced in 1965 from
Us$48.5 million to US$32.0 million and the scope of road construction curtail3cl.
The Closing Date of the Loan was conditionally extended by two years to t-he
end of December 1967 with the proviso that certain performance requiremenits
would have to be met at the end of the first one-year extension.
4.        The Govern-ment which came to power in 1966 took steps which improu d
the execution of the Bank project, such as providing Vialidad with adequate
funds, streiftthening an existing office within Vialidad to coor>.irrte activities
related to the project, assigning more staff to supervise construction, iand
making more effective use of consultants. These improvements warranted the
Bank's extension of the Closing Date for the balance of the two-year period
envisaged earlier. A new Vialidad management was installed in mid-1967
charged with responsibility for overhauling the organization and preparing
investment programs.  The first program, a Three-Year Plan (1968-1970),was
hurriedly put together in 1967.  Steps were taken to improve highway adminij-
tration through better control of contractors, decentralizing operations,
delegating authority, and establishing a highway planning department.   As a
result, the execution of the first hiehway project became satisfactory and
led to eventual extension of the Closing Date to December 31, 1968, to rnrit
full disbuarsement against ongoingi construction works (which were satisfaterily



Annex 1
Page 2-
completed in April 1968) and to use an estimated $2.7 million balance in the loan
to procure additional maintenance equipment.   $1.0 million of this amount was
not required and at the request of the Government was cancelled from the loan
account in August 1968.   Procurement under the loan was satisfactorily completed
and a remaining balance of about $50,000 was canceled in February, 1969.
5.        Other external assistance to the highway sector was provided by the
US Government through AID and the Export-Import Bank with loans between 1961
and 1968 total:Ling about US$21 million for improving a main trunk road and to
assist the construction industry to import equipment, and about US$3 million for
road feasibili-ty studies in the northeastern part of Argentina. The Inter--
American Development Bank made two loans in December 1967, totalling US$72 nillion5
to help improve the Argentine section (100 kIn) of an international road linking
the city of Menldoza with the Chilean port of Valparaiso and to construct a bridge
over the River Parana at Corrientes in northeast Argentina.
( i   ./l9yO



Page 1
Transport Coordination
Present Institutional Arrangements
1.        The existing arrangements do not permit the effective formulation,
implementation and supervision of transport coordination pol:icies.    The
Secretariat of Transport is responsible for transport coordination, but it
directly controls only the railways and road transport industry, whereas the
planning for the highwqay infrastructure is done in Vialidad which reports to
the Secretariat of Public Works.    The Sectorial Development Office, recently
created within the Secretariat of Transport, is intended to be directly re-
sponsible for transport coordination,but as it lacks staff and experience
it does not yet function.    This state of affairs has resulted in many past
transport investments having been made without reference to priorities based
on economic analysis and a number of investments which have very low economic
returns.
Road User Charges
2.        Total proceeds from road user taxes in 1968, for highway expend:itures,
administration, construction and maintenance are estimated at M$'I1 142 bil:Lion
(see Table 3).   Only about 0ho of these revenues are earmarked at present for
highway purposes, bul total revenues from road users adequately cover estimate:
expenditures in 1968 and likely expenditures for 1969 and 1970.     The earmark-
ing arrangements are discussed in paras 3.09 and 3.10 of the main text.     HowT-
ever, the distribution of revenues collected from various classes of users
does not correspond to the distribution of traffic carried by the different
tvnes of vehicles.    For exampnel. diesel truck owners are naving under 10-,;
of total revenues,which is inadequate in relation to their use of road facili-
ties.   This is due to the extremely low tax on diesel fuel which is now set
at 9P,l 1.16 per liter (US¢Q.3 per liter). The Sectorial Development Office
will review l;hiq situation with the view to nronosing adrustments in rates
of road taxes, such as the tax on diesel fuel, which would charge the user
the economic cost of' resouircs required tn provrid  thP in  rnrt.ire
Railw 7ay Tariffs
3.  Iwm1irw 1iavy   f+. uvsr atse+ !nt - dta no -nnf' ej hui+A n to-. jnfrastruciit+Iu-re
costs at all.   However, there is considerable room for reducing operating
costs and increasing tariffs which would perm-it gradual improvements in the
railTJayts firnancial performance.  It is reasonable to expect that the prese±.
i1ailw a y m. anagremn t c a n  eflect these ch-anes  +1-s t -t b  197 f  users
would cover the full operating and investment costs.
Administrative Restrictions on Traf.fic Allocation
«l.       There is no administrative allocation of traffic as between mOs
t~.- rgunrina.  Nevertheless a number of restrictive rei Lat.lCis hIve  t -t. I



Annex 2
Page 2
emActsd which affect. road hauIprq. Route rates and schedules must be approved
by the Secretariat of Transport before the opening of new passenger services.
Simnlnr regulations exist for freight transnort hut are not being enforced
and there is a de facto situation of almost free competition between rcad and
raoil fr l. he tr n.sport of freight.  These regulhtnhil i 'hp. eabndon.ed and
transport industries left free to compete among themselves. This matter is
to b1- st+urd,iedA by, +1-e sec+torw1 Dnhrc1 ^r%rm-n+ rOff VV>...
C.        Tn ordler- t1o facilita-te 4-he app"ican4r of c-.m.on -riteri  for all1
'j 0   L~~~J'  t'**t L J's..,Us L U.&CIV  U~L..,  C%.aN..k AS%.,OV.W4.
types of transport investments, and permit the formulation and enactmen.t of
cohlierenu t s     po.liy meI ±'tjy asures, a ceUtr-al UUUby i needudu Wl"Ll, at she
technical level, would act as a coordinator for the whole transport sector.
ILhe SectOial DevelopmrIent OffiCe is SU! eU for sULch a ctrL1Lal_ roLe. The
provisional terms of reference for this office have been reviewed and are
satisfactory; special emphasis should be given to t-he follo-wing 1unctiUns:
(i) For'ecasting of transportation demand
Devlo   short a,dln     ,g    croi forecasts- of
transportation demand for both public and private services,
passenger and goods traflic, domestic and international.
(ii) Data Collection
Det;ermine the type of inrform.ation required for nl-nnnin-g pur-
poses, e.g. road vehicle fleet, traffic counts; commodity
~~,nA  n.~aenn   ^_  1,.4 nl1..,-r  n,nn 4+1,n '-+  i1 1crl  
ad pa_seng.r mows, lUghfw.ay expend-t1Ses a+ al 
government, railway inventory and costs, etc.;
LEASt_ab,l; ish procedures and techniques sui +tale fnr +he re+rtrl
v VCtV | ~~.LA 'AS  V b>U ov AUW4sX      -  --   u  S V U VV _VX . 
collection and compilation of the required information.
(iii)  Investment Programming
Review the methodologies used by the National Railways and
Vialidad in the preparation of their investment programs;
Review the consistency of these programs and the impliecl level
of capital exDenditures;
Make recommendations regarding the acceptability of such
programs.
iv) Pri e-i na oPo)li c-ies
Undertake economic analyses into road costs and, on this basi-:.;
make recommendations with regard to road taxes and fees:
Review the National RailwaY's cost analyses and, on thiS b.-_;..
propose maximum levels for rail tariffs with a view to CLVCid-'U.;
excessive cross subsidization and abuse of a dominant rosition.
6.        As mpntionped earlier the .ectorial Denvelopnment Office does not vet
function.  It has less than five professional staff, none of whom are pro-
fesion azil traInspot- f-n mi c  To     n e.f`rc+i-irv wrkT.l i n  mect+rlin  l -rr. n'u



Annex 2
_ . 
will require a team of about 15 professionals including transport economists,
. t4±Ck-.LJ f                 Uk) knalysts and stat-isticiLns. *  o. ULI thr   w.ld be n
major difficulty recruiting most of this staff locally, highly qualified
persons ho -I 4ng both thI,eoretic, a" backgroud and mAngret 4aailte 4        are
not available in Argentina.    In view of the foregoing, the Bank has recomn-
Mended      L           IJIg 4 U-IiIiL  s conirma1L'±Vi Ld-L   LVJLt
r.endedA, anAd is awaitin  th uue Goverrm,.ent ! ScoLi,aion   thatLL twoV eApr  b
employed for a period. of about two years to build up the Office, advise the
Secretariat on matters of -ransporj coord(Jnation, adi JraUin persoriiel -who
would later replace the experts.
June 10, 1969



AA'JNEX 3
Page 1
ARGE\TTIHNA
SECOID HIGOh-1Y PROJECT
Basis for Economic Justification of Project Road Sections
A.  TraPfio-Volumes
1.        Tt,ese are based on December 1967 .4DTIs adjusted by (i) 1O960l1967
growth trends through multiple regression analysis, and (ii) seasonalit;y
factors calculated on the basis of monthlly fuel cons,Mpt^ion data for the
relevant provinces.  The following are the adjusted 1967 ADT's for the
four pDroject road sectionls.
,-.  '          /                                 . 
(i)             (2)) (v                          (4/
Route 251        Route 3        Route 3          Route 7
Junction         San Antonio    Uzcudum-        Laboulaye-
Route 22-San     Oeste-Arroyo   Canadon          Mercedes
Antonio Oeste    Verde           Ferrais
1967 ADT's
(existing traffic)
Light (L)           81               80             85              190
2Iediurf (H)        26               64             45               43
Heavvr (HI)         20              52              58               21
Total      127             196             188              25)4
Diverted Traffic  From Route 3                                  From Route 8
Light (L)           17                                              114
Viediuni (h)        10                                               28
Heav (H)            38                                               79
Total                                                       221
Total 1967 ADT     192             196             188              475
2.        Traffic projections have been made on the assumption that in the
next five years the national arerage will be around 750 per amnum with growth
rates for Route 3 being below and those for Route 7 above average.   It is
also assumed that growth rates will be slower on secondary roads and that
the grow..th will peak onf- more rapidl . Accordingly the following growth
rates have been assumed:-



ANNEX 3
Page 2
in < ner annum for e-xisting, traffic
Project Road Sections     1             2            3 r
Tvne of Tratfic        T. M  H       T. M  14     T. M  H       T. M  H
1967-1972              6  5  5       7  6  6      7 6   6       6  5  3
1973-1977              5  5  5       6  5  5      6  5  5       6 h   3
1978-1982              5  5  5       5 5   5      5 55 5        4     3
1983-1987                 4  4       5 55         4  4  4       3  3  3
1988-1996              h     L       L L  L h     L L   h       2  2  2
-__   n %  er annum for diverted traffic
1967-1972              7 6   6                                  7 86
1973-1977              6  5  5                                  6  7 6
1978-1982              5  5  5                                  555
1983-1987              555                                      555
1988-1996             [} h                                      hi4h
3         T, diiAo+  ienn  rlire s       <   r ,ctmA Tkmw mTvl -il:n/e+. -t"r'inH
as described in paras. 6 and 7 of this annex.    The following is an openirng
y    ?i 0,171) ADT'  -m,¶-A 3rr  a+ or the b-ais of4 the above   --s+tioffl
\,aa-.4,- / D -.A   *,-4 .,  y                               I,~-,~  .
ProjectV R,oad- S'ect     1.        _2 i 
Light                     173          108         111          486
L18U UI                                 U..L.L_r5QJrrzn L
Heavy                      77           65          74          136
LO %a-l aiiis             3°3         25            40          3
B. 'Vehicle Operating Costs
4.        Th-ley have been arrived at on the basis oI the physical coeiiicients
in the Bank Occasional Paper Number Two "Quantification of Road User Savings"
and Argentinie input prices. The following is a comparison.
in US$ equivalent
Bank Paper     Argentine Prices
Gasoline/li-ter                                    0.0h7          0.050
Diesel/liter                                       0.03           0.043
Lube oil/liter                                     0.189          0.457
Tires European                                    16.60          23.99
Tires 61½ truck                                   72.80         1h9.92
Tires 20T truck & trailer                        123.80         171.601/
European car                                    1449.0         1920.-
61 truck                                        3623.00       468dO.OO./
20T truck & trailer                            14249.00      17600.001/
Wages per hour
6&2 truck driver                                   0.25           0.77
20T truck and trailer driver                       0.25           1.83
Private car                                       0°40            1.83
Maintenance (mechanic)                             0.h0           1.51
1/ After apDoropriate adjustments to eliminate the effect of excessive local
production costs in accordance with the Staff Report C-162 ?iAutomoblie
Industries in Developing C2ountries'.



A T. fl T   I
Page 3
5.        Vehicle operating costs based on these coefficients appear in
the attached Table to this Annex.  The following is a summary of unit
vehicle operating costs in US¢/km for calculating the benefits for the
opening year traffic of 1971; these were derived from the Table using
appropriate vehicle speeds and roadway characteristics for the present and
the proposed facility.
Project Road Sections
1       _         2                  3           _ _  __34
Present Proposed Present Proposed Present Proposed Present Proposed
Light      4.58    3.67      4.58     3.67      h.67    3.67      6.10    3.67
Medium    13.07    9.29     13.07     9.29     13.51    9.29     18.Sh    9.29
Heavy     22.75   15.23     22.75   15.23      23.47   15.23     29.98   15.23
C. Benefits
Reduction in Vehicle Operating Costs (normal and induced traffic)
6.        Savings in vehicle operating costs for the various types of vehicles
for the different road sections were derived from the costs shown in para. 5
above. In addition to savings in vehicle operating costs accruing to normal
traffic on all project road sections due to the upgrading, there will be
similar savings for induced traffic on some of them. The road section with
the greatest savings is Laboulave-Mercedes (Route 7). Its zone of influence
lies on the principal east-west axis from Buenos Aires to Mendoza and has
impnortant economic characteristics as described in pararranh 5.02 of the main
text. There is no doubt that the relatively undeveloped state of the irmedialve
zone of influence ic s +deo r      bn +; rn +.rnncrnmrv +.c o e+rn Pi1-.P 7 wThicrh tTi I 
be almost halved as a result of the proposed upgrading.    3enefits for the
inducedtafl     on this sectio;n have been calclated,-, on +-n the J ,i of' unit
elasticity.
7.        Benefts on ac-count of induced traffic for the P.oufte 29 531 section
San Antonio Oeste-Junction Route 22 have been calculated on the basis of an
elasticity of 0...  As2 ttn  e two +TRoute 3 pnrPio+ jnct roascon s no indulced
traffic has been assumed since economic activity at present and for the
future is rather limited within their immediate zones of influence; 'practic-ly
all the traffic on the project sections is long haul traffic which is not
sensitive t-o very              re-l- Cveal  reutons in I -------tation costus.
Dleconges t 1- i
542541.. L4.' 2  ..  V  l  ~JAa.L.  4V  l  .LU.  t.[ 425.141. I5UiI  .I  i  AJ5lV  I.5±'JLL   CLAJ   VU   U   V
L.        Ur,iLU saV.Lngs i 2n vehcle operaltin cos  a des UCrUibeSd. abov   do
take into account the fact that such costs on the present facilities will go
up once traffic vol-meS eAceed existirng capacivy and congot-ion sets in.
It has been assumed that gravel roads of the type which will be upgraded
in this project have a daily capacity oI aDout 350 vehicles.   Between ADT'rs
of 350-450 vehicles operating costs go up by 5% on account of the slolwing
down of vehicles due mainly to dust and poorer roadway surface conditions.
Between 450-550, vehicle costs are 10% higher and for traffic volumes pvrer
550, they are 15% higher0



'A I'vX 3
Page 4
9.        As for nnved roads. Route 8, the only one affected by the project,
has a capacity of 6,000 vehicles from which some traffic will be diverted to
Route 7 As traffic reaches this ca.pacitv in the late 80's the diversion
of vehicles from Route 8 will produce decongestion benefits of a similar pro-
portion to those given for gravel roads
S hort er l'r a v e 1D ,S t n. ce=-
lO *      One last source of benefits reae     to verhincle operating costs -s
related savings in travel distances, namely 36 kcn for traffic diverted from
Route A 4- o Route 7 and. 1- for +raffic dier-ted from Route 3 to Ruite '.l
I leduc tion iLn Mai.Litenlair.lce Cot
ll.       Dtneits ono account of savings in   .aintenance costs have been cal-
culated on the basis of data provided by TAMS in the feasibility studies ior
the proJecb r.oads ani on Qdata pro-v.dLUeU En uiit 1976  LonigI  e T.s
Plan. The followiing is a summary of the data used to calculate total main-
tenance cost, per annum per kilometer of various types of roads.
In U,     per ar1I
Fixed    Variable
Asphaltic concrete                      900      o.Oo venicle after AIJL LUT 0
Bituminous                              600      0.o8                      900
Gravel (partly earth)                   300      2.44    ii                10
For gravel roads the variable element goes up to US$2.56 per vehicle afte^-
ADT's of 350 are reached to US$2.68 per vehicle after ADT's of 450 vehicles
and to US$2.80 for ADT's of 550 vehicles and above.
T,-,  r  ' o,o1



ANNEX 3
ARGENTINA                           TABLE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(in U.S.¢/Vehicle km')
A. European Car
Type of Road       Paved        ==Crave                   ----Earth----
Speed/hr in Im        88        72            64         56         48         40
Fuiel               0.36       0.38          0.36       0.40      0.40        0.41
Engine oil          0.02       0.03          0.03       0.04      0.04        0.04
Tire wear           0.20       0.36          0.34       0.59       0.57       0.55
Depreciation        0.61       0.81          0.86       1.18       1.27       1.38
Interest            0.36       0.44          0.50       0.58      0.67        0.81
Maintenance parts   0,21       0.27          0.27       0.36      0.36        0.35
Maintenance labor   0.10       0.14          0.13       0.18      0.17        0.17
Occupants Time      1.30       1.58          1.79       2.04      2.38        2.87
Insurance           0.51       0.62          0.70       o.80      0.93        1.12
Total                3.67      4.63          4.98       6.18      6.79        7.70
B.  6½ T Truck
Type of Road          ---Paved----           ---Gravel   -           -----Earth--
Speed                80         72            64         56        48          40       32
Fuel                1.23       1.17          1.43       1.38      1.63        1.61     1.63
Engine oil          0.07       0.0A7         0.1 -I     0 .11     0.,016               01
Tire wear           1.38       1.17          2.52       2.35      5.29        5.16     5.04
Depreciation        1.50       1.59          2.25       2.43      4.03        4.26     4.59
Interest            0.75       0.80          0.89       1.03      1.22        1.45     1.83
Maintenance parts   1.50       1.48          2.20       2.11       3.51       3.42     3.32
Maintenance labor   0.38       0.36          0.56       0.53      0.89        0.87     0.85
Drivers wages       1.15       1.27          1.44       1.64       1.92       2.30     2.88
insurance           0.89       0,99          1I.        1=27      1IA4        1.78     2.22
Overhead            0.43       0.47          0.57       0.62      0.87        0.98     1.15
Total                9.28      9.37         13.07      13=47     20.99       21.99    23.67
_~~~~~~~~~ 9
C. 20 T Truck-Trailer
Type of Road       ---- Pave-d--- Gravel ---------                           ---- Earth-----
peed,/A.r in le-     72                                            h B  40     ho2
Fuel                1.17       1.08          1.50       1.18      1.)2        1.94     2.06
Engine oil          0.20       0.23          0.28       0.30      0.32        0.42     0.45
Tire wear           2.80       2.32          5.59       5.22      4.91       12.37    11.98
Depreciation        2.62       2.88          3.93       4.19      4.71        7.07     7.59
Interest            o.80       1.07          1.07       1.33      1.60        1.60     1,86
Maintenance parts   1.87       1.86          2.93       2.93      2.66        5.06     5.06
Maintenance labor   0.53       0.49          0.78       0.75      0.73        1.28.    1.26
Drivers Wages       3l.04      ) 3.43        3.92l1     L. en     e.ff0       5.v      6.870
Insurance           0.91       1.03          1.17      1.37       1.64        1.64     2.05
Overhead            0.74       0.84          1.01      1.15       1.35        1.58     1.8h
Total              14.68      15.23         22.19      23.30     24.94       38.46    41.02
March 21, 1969



ARGIENTIINA: SECOND HIC4HW/kY PROJIECT
ORGANIZATrION OF THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY DEPARTWIENT (VIALIDAD)
ADMINISTRATOR
SU[-ADMINISTRATOR
CHIEF ENGiNEIER
FINANCES              DESIGN           CON STRUCTO      FMA.NTEIANE         7PLANNING           FLEG,
DEPARTMEN               TMEJ           [PARTMENL DEPARI1MENT                  DEPARTMENT          DEPART
TI~~I 
'4           7                                                         2 2   1 
NCES X ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a           o                   x I    il   z                I   N   S 1> Z
>   D< tR&CT            4                0
c                                               Z~~~4 
. .                                        ,.  _                                                        _ 47  4-44 R
I                                               a                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
March  196                                                                                                   (R) IS R1 -'4  - 4163j-



I)   ~   ~  1' 4 '-k        W          _         ,    : JASUNCION    a.. .
1        -)        X ~AN MIGUEL de TUCUMAN n                      I/3JO ?
I      (         g              ~      II
s ~~~~~~~r                                                    POSADA
VALPARA1506    '%JM,,NUUL
L. Au  8 \2~ R-kS G,-DEL ESTEROA PLATA
CATAMARCA ZAAN
rt     It      ,,/  ,f-      FI< -%,VE      ,         ARGENTINA 
SAN CARLOS de BARILOCHE.. r  I../ __   tV
k   _, t(r k @ '    ARROYO VERDE'J S  tz°    SECOND     HIGHWAY      PROJECT
_~ }A q (RIOJAk                     PRINCIPAL ROADS OF             I
j '       S  5                RAWSON           THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK
J    -  <     !4.    > UZCUDUM                          1968
2 b.?i . / 
ALAR .IS       UV SCANADON FERRAIS
c    \--E)  '-.-*RCOMODOROGRIVADAVIA                   R U
ny~     ~~ -qj    DOR        ----HIGHWAYS     IMPROVED UNDER FIRST PROJECT|
S   .- ?       >>                ~~~~~~~HiGHWAYS TO BE IMPROVED UNDER SECOND PROJECT|
4   (  (   g5   liS  >~~~~~~~~_____________________ GRAVEL  OR  CONSOLIDATED
'5.
,;,  . /   "  /        _____ ~~~~EARTH ROAD (and some trolls)
* JULiAN _ ... _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
,  £         >                                     PROVINCES|
cL_     '..            I~vff              . JUJUY       12. CORDOBA 
Q,---)  >  14                ~~~~~~~ ~   ~   ~~2. SALTA  13. RIO NEGRO
V   (                                   3. CHACO  1     4. CHIUBUT
A   i 4I FR!OtAEEEGOS   1. SGO. DEL ESTERO  15. SNM A  CRuP Z



PA CIFIC                        0 C EA N-
L I)'-fc2                                                   lbl0
_4,H,
L
>11&           :............
C)
...........                                                                                                                                                          .  .......
...........
S
r                                                                                     10
----------                                                                                         c
c                                                                                                                            0
R
r
0
0
p
0
0
co
CL
0                                                                           oo<
,OX                                                    n                                                                         00,
1>1
C,
:D
Lr
X                          m
r                    Z Z
?D                                                                                                                          c
r, m
0                  0 m
Z
m                                                                                                                         V.
>                                                                           c                    0,,   9 >0
CC)
'nrn
%
t4
...............



ADT   1967  1971-O0'
L     8,73  1, 006
M     356     4443
H     3 1 8   3 0 3
5AN ]U    T   1 , 547  1,752]     N SANTA FE
i____    _ __  \  PROVINCE
,       CA PAMPORDOBA  VINCE 
SAN LUIS     ~RIO CUAR TO7)
SAN~ LUIS              INC                                 / I  33
ME FC E DES    O~(23k,   L   A~ 
ADrF 1967   1971-OT                          __ _                                       ID
L  190    48   750-3'C'ov
M      143   11 2  I 
H      21    136                                                                        IRBENO  LA PLAT
Ti   2514 ~J314           _            I                             __          -     AIRES   LAPLATA
to amesadrsasPo;cNO LUISN                              PROVND   CEE  A
F?ROVINCE                                                        S PGO VINCI:
DISANC BEWEAN   BUENO  A]RE   - MECEES          SUPLETR        LE,N
LA PAMPA
-             a                              PJ       FO    SECTIONPROVINCE
*PresentZY unde~r construction                               SE6A       
to same standa'rds as ProjectFO                MANLEDSEMP1
R-oad Section LabouZaue-Mercedes.
ComnZetion schtedul.ed for earlu                                                    A RGEN TIN A
I 9 7 0                                             ~~~~~~~SECOND  HIlGHW'AY    PROJECT
DISTrANCE BETWEE7N BUENOS AIRES - MERCEDES::       SUPPLE'MENTARY LEGEND
Railroad                         PROJECT ROAD SECTIONI
(<) Via Route 8         731km           ADT Average daily traffic
L  Light vehicles                          ROUTE 7
,tj via Route 7         t,bkbn           M   medium vehicles
H  Heavy vehicles
Distance saved with @ 36km               T   Total vehicles                 0     50  1oo  150  2C0O
[  ~~Ditne        aidwith®T36km
OY Opening year traffic                   KILOMETERS                 >
DECEMBER 1968                                                                                             1EIRD-2477



MAP 4
BUENOS AIRES
I*W!       t       P R OV I N C PROVINCE
~~~~~LA PAM PA                            \            'o
d       PROVINCE
roNeu_ RIO NEGRO
IIADT |18967  1 971 1 Q                     I             IADT   1967 | 1971-DY
1,  A1 7 3 lnK ay]  k                                                        I 
M     26      53                                           M     36      34
H     20      77          7H                                     56      22 )
127  I~~ 3031                              EjT            18 4    1 51__
CARI ANlrnkltin Z           I 
ADT   1967   1  1               1      9 nJ7Y |
L     80n    m1n F ]
M     64      8
196  | 254
52 6      654
Arroyo Verde_            .-
| t- - -A                                               ARGENTINA
SECOND HiGH'VV/AY PRiJECT I
ICHU BJT           A     C    >                PROJECT ROAD SECTIUONb
.'     )                    ROUTES 3 AND 251
Trel
iRWESO'N            FOR MAIN LEGEND SEE MAP 1
SUPPLEMENTARY LEGEND
__________________                           ~~~~~~ADT Average daily traffic
ADT 11967   1     97-OY Uzcudu                                L   Light vehicles
L  1 85      1 11                                            M  Medium vehicles
M     45      55    1-    f                                  H  Heavy vehicles
I H  °I     7  1.    s                                     T  Total vehicles
240                                             OY Opening year traffic
DISTANCE BETWEEN SAN
ANTONIOTt OESTE - BAHIA BLANCA.
|             f~~~~~Cano'doii Ferrais
>Ca1nodon F-. rois                          Via Route 3                420km
o  /COMODORO
P     RIVADAVIA                        Q     Via Routes 251 and 22     366km
Distance saved with B            54km
0    50   100   150  200
I ' I ' _
KILOMETERS
DECEMBER 1968                                                                       1ER D-2480



