RESTRICTED
Report No.  P-722
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND ROAD PROJECT
June 9, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEV1LOPNENT
REPORT AND RECOIISTDATION OF THE PRESIDINT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRE.CTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A SECOND ROAD PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$25 million to The
Argentine Republic for a second road project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        On June 30, 1961, the Bank made a loan of $48.5 million for the
construction and reconstruction of about 2,600 km of roads and the purchase
of road maintenance equipment. The loan was made at a time when the Bank,
acting as Executing Agency for the UN Special Fund, was supervising a long
range study of transport in Argentina.
3.        The execution of the 1961 road project was slow.   Of the original
amount, $16.5 million was cancelled in July 1965 and $1 million in August
1968, and the closing date was postponed several times. Beginning in 1965,
steps were taken to improve the administration of the project. In recent
years, performance by the National Highway Authority (Vialidad Nacional) has
been satisfactory and the project, reduced in scope to about 1,900 km, was
completed at the end of 1968.
4.        In the spring of 1968, the Government asked the Bank to review
the problems and requirements of the Argentine transport sector and, as a
first step, consider financing some sections of national routes 3 and 7.
After preliminary discussions, the Bank in September sent a mission to
Argentina to study the transport sector, including transport coordination,
progress by the railways in preparing a rehabilitation program, the status
of highway investment planning and the organization and operations of
Vialidad Nacional. In addition, the mission appraised for financing under
the presently propcsed loan several sections of national routes 3, 7 and 251.
5.        The transport mission concluded that (i) existing institutional
arrangements did not permit the effective formulation, implementation and
supervision of a well coordinated transport policy; a central body was
needed to collect the necessary data, to elaborate common criteria for
investment selection and pricing of transport services, and to act as a
coordinator for the whole transport sector; (ii) while the management of
the railways has considerably improved since 1966, their operations were
still inefficient and a consistent rehabilitation and investment effort was
needed over the next five years to eliminate the operating deficit and pro-
vide an allowance for depreciation; and (iii) while the road system was



- 2 -
generally sufficient for traffic requirements, it called for selective
improvement, more efficient administration, planning of investment con-
forming to economic priorities and better coordination of national and
provincial road planning. The mission further recommended that, subject
to progress in these fields, the road project appraised by it be consi-
dered by the Bank for financ:ing.
6.        After the findings of the transport mission had been discussed
in Washington and Buenos Aires, negotiation of the proposed loan took place
in Washington in late April and early hay .1969. The Government was repre-
sented by Ingeniero Victor Santiago Mangonnet, Under-Secretary of Public
Works and General Administrator of Vialidad Nacional, and Ingeniero Garcia
Baldizone of Vialidad Nacional.
7.        The following is a summary statement of the previous Benk loans
to Argentina as of May 31, 1969:
Loan                                                     Amount Undisbursed
Number Year             Borrower             Purpose         (US$ Million)
288     1961    The Argentine Republic       Roads         30.9      -
308     1962    Servicios Electricos del
Gran Buenos Aires S.A.
(SEGBA)                      Power        93.h       -
505     1967    The Argentine Republic       Livestock     15.3     15.2
525     1968    Servicios Electricos del
Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.
(SEGBA)                     Power        55.0     36.2
577     1968    Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica
S.A. (HIDRONOR)             Power        82.0     77.3
Total (less cancellations)               276.
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                       19.2
Total now outstanding                    257.4
Amount sold                   5.5
of which has been repaid      .9          h.6
Total now held by Bank                   252.8
Total undisbursed                                 128.7
No IDA credits have been made to Argentina. IFC has made commitments to
six companies in Argentina for a total of $16.7 million and the IFC Execu-
tive Directors recently approved an additional investment amounting to
$7 million. IFC presently holds $7.1 million of loans for its owqn account;
of this $3 million is undisbursed.



- 3 -
8.        After a period of preparation and organization, the credit program
supported by the Bank's loan for livestock signed in July 1967 was launched
in August 1968 and by the beginning of the March 1969 sowing season about
60 loans for ranch development had been approved. However, the Borrower has
not yet requested disbursement by the Bank in respect of these loans.
9.        In April 1969, a field appraisal was made of a transmission and
distribution project of Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.
(SEGBA); this project may become a basis for a third Bank loan to SEGBA.
A mission is scheduled to go to Argentina in the middle of June to review
the progress of the railways in putting a rehabilitation program into effect
and preparing a project for consideration by the Bank.
PART II - DESCRITTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
10.       Borrower:                   The Argentine Republic.
Amount:                    In various currencies equivalent to
US$25 million.
Purpose:                    To help finance improvement of 800 km
of roads, plus retention of con-
sulting services.
Amortization:               In 25 years, including a b-year period
of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning September 15,
1973 and ending March 15, 1994.
Interest Rate:              6-1/2% per annum.
Commitment Charge:          3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
11.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Highway Project,
Argentina" (PTR-13a) is attached.
12.       The role of Buenos Aires as the center of population, export
trade, industry and commerce has determined the traffic pattern of Argentina.
The capital city is the base of a well-developed transport system, the main
parts of which are a railway network of about b2,000 km and a national and
provincial primary road network of about 137,000 km. For many years, the
railways have been losing traffic to roads and showing a large deficit due
to inefficient operation, vast overstaffing, over-extended network and
antiquated equipment. The Government and the railways are presently pre-
paring a rehabilitation program designed to redimension the system to fit



- 4 -
present traffic requirements, and to achieve financial equilibrium. As
indicated in paragraph 9 above, the Bank may be in a position within some
months to consider helping the railways to finance capital expenditures
within the context of a rehabilitation program.
13.       Given satisfactory Government policies and institutional im-
provements in the transport sector, the presently proposed road project
is expected to be the first of several transport projects to be financed
by the Bank in Argentina in the next few years. Its main objective is to
lay a firm foundation for sound planning of future development of the
Argentine road system. The project would include a reconnaissance of the
national and provincial primary road net-ork in order to identify priorities
for road construction. The reconnaissance would cover those works in the
current 1968-70 highway plan for which contracts have not been awarded or
no funds allocated in the 1969 budget and may thus help prevent financing
of lesser priority roads under the 1970 budget. The reconnaissance would
be followed by feasibility studies of roads selected in its course as being
of high priority. Detailed engineering would be carried out for those roads
for which the feasibility studies reached favorable conclusions, and these
roads might then provide a basis for subsequent Bank loans.
14.       The reconnaissance should ensure a thorough preparation of a
road investment program for 1971-75. In addition to agreeing to take due
account of economic merits of roads in formulating future road construction
programs (Loan Agreement, Section 5.09), the Government has expressed to
the Bank its intention to move toward a system of allocation of road invest-
ment funds which would give appropriate weight to economic priorities in
channeling federal monies into provincial road construction. At present,
funds for road investment are being allocated to the provinces on the basis
of fixed formulae determined by law. VJhile Vialidad Nacional may make
observations on the proposed use of these funds, it has no authority to
decide how they should be used.
15.       Rational road investment planning and efficient road administra-
tion will be assisted by another part of the project which consists of the
preparation of a nation-wide road inventory, the establishment of a
traffic counting system for the primary road network, and the setting up
of a cost accounting system for Vialidad Nacional. The acquisition of
miscellaneous field and office equipment for these purposes is also in-
cluded in the project. During the negotiation of the proposed loan, the
Government indicated to the Bank its intention to reduce the excessive
centralization of road administration by gradually transferring primary
responsibility for maintenance and improvement of the national network from
Vialidad Nacional to provincial road authorities, leaving Vialidad in
charge of the planning and supervision of the national and provincial pri-
mary road network.
16.       Another part of the project is the formulation of recommendations
in respect of transport coordination. The Government has recently decided
to merge the Secretariats of Transport and of Public Works, and these are



- 5 -
already headed by the same Secretary. The Government is also in the process
of organizing a transport sector development office. Its staff would be
reinforced, for a limited period of time, by two specialists for the purpose
of initiating the coordination of road and railway investment programs and
pricing policies. Supplied with adequate data on road conditions and
traffic, and on road building and maintenance costs, the office should be
in a position to formulate consistent policies aimed at providing the
Argentine people with efficient, low-cost, transport services.
17.       IDst of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be devoted to
construction work for upgrading and paving about 800 km. of selected
sections of routes 3, 7 and 251. The economic justification for upgrading
and paving these road sections is described in the appraisal report. A
return of 14 percent has been estimated for the investment in a section of
route 7 and the San Antonio Oeste - Arroyo Verde section of route 3. The
investments in the Uzcudum - Canadon Ferrais section of route 3 and in a
section of route 251 are estimated to show a rate of return of 10 percent.
18.       The cost of the project is estimated at $50 million equivalent.
The proposed loan would cover 50 percent of road construction costs and
the foreign exchange costs, estimated at 60 percent, nf the consultants
who would supervise construction under the project and carry out feasibility
and engineering studies for the 1971-75 road program. The Government
would cover the balance of these costs and would pay the consultants who
would identify road construction priorities for the 1971-75 program,
compile a road inventory, establish a traffic counting system, set up
cost accounting for Vialidad Nacional and work on transport coordination.
The project should be completed in early 1972. Construction and purchase
contracts would be let on the basis of international competitive bidding,
except that individual items of specialized equipment being purchased in
quantities not exceeding $10,000 equivalent would be procured in limited
local bidding.
19.       The foreign exchange component of road construction costs is
estimated at 35 percent, so that my proposal would involve financing local
expenditures equivalent to 15 percent of construction costs, or a total
of $6 million. As indicated in the latest economic report (WH-191a, dated
May 23, 1969), the scale of Argentina's gross external borrowing require-
ments is such that the borrowing will have to include an element of local
cost financing. Only about 8 percent of gross domestic investment in
Argentina is accounted for by imports of capital goods and the direct
foreign exchange component of most loans for specific projects is rela-
tively small owing to the existence of fairly well developeA local capital
goods industries. The Bank is therefore justified in financing some
local costs on high-priority projects.



- 6 -
PART IV - LEGATL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.      The draft Loan Agreement between The Argentine Republic and the
Bank, the Report of the Comnmittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The Agreement follows closely the form currently used for loans for road
projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.      The report "Recent Economic Developments and Prospects of
Argentina" (WH-191a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 3,
1969. The report concludes that in the light of the relatively favorable
longer-term growth and balance of payments prospects and the remarkable
success achieved thus far by the Government in carrying out its program of
economic stabilization and reactivation of the economy, Argentina should
be creditworthy for the substantial volume of additional lending it requires.
22.      It is not yet possible to ascertain whether the political events
of recent weeks will result in any significant modification of the economic
program and particularly in the incomes policy. The fact that price increases
have been small during recent months and that gross foreign exchange reserves
constitute the equivalent of eight to nine months' imports, provides the
Argentine authorities with a degree of flexibility in dealing with possible
renewed wage and price pressures with their possible balnce of payments
consequences. TW,hile the situation will, of course, merit close attention,
there appears to be no reason at this time to modify the conclusions of
the Bank's recent economic report.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMETDATIONS
24.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 9, 1969



