STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                      78703          1



                INTERNATIONAL Bll.NK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION



                                       Joint   r.1eeting




                                Tuesday, March 30, 1971




                        A joint meeting of the Executive Directors of the

              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the

              International Development Association was convened at

              10 o'clock a.m., in the Boarc Room, 1818 H Street, North,.;est,

              Nashington, D. C., Mr. RobertS. HcNamara, President,

              presiding as chairman.




          I
         I!
         ;~
         ji
         II
STRICTLY        ONFIDENTIAL                                           2



                                    C 0 N T E N T S




                 5.   Proposed Credit - Ethiopia (Second Education
                           Project) • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . .       34




           l,
           II
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                    35




          pattern when an IDA credit was made for the first education

          project in 1966.   In the last two years, this tendency

          toward a hroadening of our operations has become much more

          pronounced.   Nhile continuing operations in our traditional

          fields, we have begun a major effort in agriculture, and

          within agriculture we are trying several different approaches.

                     We have already made one credit for a comprehensive

          program to support smallholder peasant agriculture in

          Southern Ethiopia and another for larger scale, commercial

          dry farming in North\o!estern Ethiopia.   We hope to present for

          your consideration in the near future two more agricultural

          projects -- one for dairy development and one for improvement

         of coffee processing.

                     Farther down the pipeline, we have an irrigation

          project under consideration.   Outside of agriculture, we plan

          to make another new departure \·d th a water supply and se\\rerage

          project.

                     I might add that our broadening pattern of activitie

          is not only reflected in the diversification of our lending

          efforts.   For instance, we are considering a oroposal to provi e

          assistance in revising Ethiopian Customs tariff, and we have

          organized a Consultative Group with the first meeting schedule

          to take place in May.
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                               36




                       \•Jhile   t¥e   have been getting more deeply involved, a

           growing awareness and concern \oli th economic and financial

           matters has become apparent on the Ethiopian side, as the

           Government has tried to diagnose the nroblems facing it and

            find solutions.       This positjve attitude was clearlv

           demonstrated in the comprehensive and constructive discussions

           on the Bank's draft Economic Report which took place bebrecn

           senior government officials and Bank staff last summer.

                       Turning nm.,r to the Second Education Project which

           is before you today, it may he considered in the context of on

           of those major problems which the Government has identified

           and is making strong efforts to solve.                 The Government has

           rightly recognized that lack of trained manpower is one of the

           ~in     constraints to Ethiopia's economic growth.              At the same

            time there is great popular pressure for educational

           opportunities.        Thus, there is a tremendous urge to catch up,

           both on the part of the Government and the populace.                 In

            this atmosphere, it is extremely difficult to turn students

           away, and this has led to severe overcrowding in many schools.

                        The original request included provision for many

           more student places than are provided in the project hefore

            you.    In its present form the project reconciles the desire

            for very rapid expansion         ~,ori th   the need to adapt the e ducation
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                    37



             system to the country's development requirements.                In essence,

             it is a holding operation, including only the most urgent

             necessities, pending the completion of the manpower studies

             and the sector survey which will provide the basis for a

             sound, long-term, education investment program..

                       If all goes well, we may expect two or three years

             from now to consider a major project to develop Etl1iopia's

             new education system.

                       Thank you.

                       MR. McNAMARA:     Thank you, sir.

                       Gentlemen, may I have your comments or questions?

                       (No response.)

                       I see we are all following the suggestion of some

             of you that silence means assent.       I am sure that that must

             be the way to interpret your silence on this.

                       This is an extraordinarily good project.                It isn't

             that it is based on as thorough a sectoral study as was the

             railroad loan or the highway loan in the case of the Argentine

             or as will be the power loan that we will shortly discuss in

             relation to Brazil.     It is not.    As Mr. Tolley said, this is

             a holding action.     l<\fe are not satisfied   "t-li th   the amount of

             planning in education in Ethiopia, nor is the Ethiopian

             Government.   But "tA.re are quite confident that this project is




        II
        II
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                       38




           moving the Government forward in the di rection of a stronger

           and sounder educational system.

                      So unless there is question, we \vill consider the

           project approved and move to the next subject.

                     Hr. Binute.

                     MR. BIHUTE:         t1r. Chairman 1 I would like to say a fe

           words to thank you for recommending this project and loan

           to the Board and my colleagues for approving it with their

           warm support.     And I would like to thank the staff particular y

           for the excellent work it has done in so few months, and

           perhaps I JT\ay point out one aspect of this project \.Jhich Hr.

           Tolley also mentioned.

                     This is an interim project pending the establishment

           of a detailed program for the expansion of the education

           system in Ethiopia.     And I would hope that the Bank would ~e

           prepared to give assistance to this country when the detailed

           program would be issued.         I am sure that the Government will

           come to the Bank \vith a request to help it and to cover a

           larger portion of local cost.

                     Thank you very much.

                     (Laughter.)

                     MR.   McNA~ffiP~:    Thank you, sir.
