CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 243 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 6, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 243 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 6, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1971         between EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set fc:  or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million five :undred thousand
dollars ($9,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿4
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 15   and    October 15   commencing     April 15, 1981   and   ending
October 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, technical
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover
the estimated expenditures required for the Project in accordance with the
construction schedules and work schedules for the Project, shall be made available,
promptly as needed, to the Project Unit.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the design and the
supervision of the construction of the teacher training institutions included in items
(i), (ii) and (iii) of Part A of the Project, together with the boarding facilities
and staff houses related to those items, the Borrower shall employ architectural
consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In carrying out the Project, the Borrower undertakes to maintain,
within its Ministry of Education, a Project Unit under the direction of a Project


﻿5
Manager and including a Project Coordinator and a Project Architect, all of whom
shall be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, together with
an Accountant and adequate technical and secretarial staff. The Project Unit, the
Project Manager, the Project Coordinator and the Project Architect shall have such
duties and responsibilities as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
qualified and experienced experts and consultants mutually acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association upon terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association and in accordance with Annex B to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(d)   In carrying out Part B (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall carry
out studies on (i) changes in the level of employment, (ii) the educational profile
of employed manpower, and (iii) the functioning of the labor market, and shall
cause such studies to be completed by not later than June 30, 1972, or such
other date as shall be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
(e)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association within twelve months from the date of this Agreement,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that the Borrower has acquired free of
all encumbrances the ownership of the land on which the educational institutions
included in the Project are to be built.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than consultants' services) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.


﻿6
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and construction schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall establish by not later than June 30, 1972,
and thereafter maintain within its Ministry of Education a group of agricultural
education specialists to be responsible for the development and supervision of the
agricultural education programs of the Ministry of Education and for the
coordination of such programs with those of the Ministry of Agriculture, such
group to be staffed by not less than two qualified and experienced agricultural
education specialists.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all funds and other resources required for the
effective utilization, staffing and operation of the schools and institutes included
in the Project.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the physical plant and equipment of the
educaticiial institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained and
repaired, shall cause from time to time all necessary renewals and repairs to be
made thereto and to that end shall (i) make available, or cause to be made available,
promptly as needed, all funds and other resources as shall be required, and (ii)
establish and maintain within the construction and maintenance diNision of its
Ministry of Education a special section responsible for school maintenance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions included
in the Project to be operated so as to promote the educational objectives of the
Borrower.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall complete, by a date not later than 12
months from the Effective Date, arrangements satisfactory to the Association, to
ensure full coordination of the teacher training programs of the Ministry of
Education, the Haile Selassie I University, the Academy of Pedagogy and the Junior
Secondary Teacher Training Institute.
Section 4.06. Not later than one year from the date of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review the draft curricula
for the rural institutes included in the Project and shall afford the Association
*         a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on such curricula.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out thee Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿8
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or causc to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
01


﻿*                                 9
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
A Project Manager, a Project Coordinator and a Project Architect shall
have been appointed, all in accordance with paragraph (b) of Section 3.02
of and Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date August 4, 1971,  is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
0


﻿10
Cable address:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Minasse Haile
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice -President


﻿*                                 11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the perceucage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in            % of Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.    Civil works                   2,200,000            44% of total expendi-
tures
II.   Local furniture and             100,000            44% of local expendi-
equipment                                          tures
III.  Importect furniture,          4,300,000            100% of foreign ex-
equipment and con-                                 penditures
struction materials
IV.   Professional serv-              100,000            44% of total expendi-
ices (architects'                                  tures
fees)
V.    Technical assistance           1,500,000           100% of foreign ex-
penditures
VI.   Unallocated                    1,300,000
TOTAL         9,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;


﻿12
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category IV on account of expenditures
incurred after January 15, 1971, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000
equivalent;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor
will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the unallocated
amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
IV or local expenditures under Category II shall increase and no proceeds of the


﻿13
Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, modify the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
A.    1.    The construction and equipment of:
(i)         one Academy of Pedagogy including a Primary Teacher Training
Institute;
(ii)        extension to one existing Primary Teacher Training Institute;
(iii)       one Training Institute for Junior Secondary School Teachers;
(iv)        one new Primary Teacher Training Institute;
(v)         twelve new general secondary schools;
(vi)        extension to 19 existing general secondary schools;
(vii)       assembly halls for 23 existing general secondary schools;
(viii)      extension to two existing Agricultural Institutes;
(ix)        three Agricultural Training Centers; and
(x)         three Rural Education Institutes.
2.    The construction and equipment of boarding facilities for about 2,525
students in five Teacher Training Institutes, five Agricultural Institutes and three
Rural Education Institutes.
3.    The construction of 64 staff houses in four Teacher Training Institutes,
seven general secondary schools, four Agricultural Institutes and three Rural
Education Institutes.
B.    The provision of technical assistance in accordance with Annex B to this
Schedule for:
(i)         an education sector survey;


﻿15
(ii)        manpower studies;
(iii)      improvement in agricultural and technical education, including
the provision of two man years of fellowships;
(iv)        staffing of the Junior Secondary Teacher Training Institute;
(v)         the services of an architect for the Project Unit; and
(vi)       improvement in school maintenance procedures.
C.    The educational institutions to be included in the Project, the specific
locations thereof and approximate enrollment levels therein shall be as set forth
in Annex A to this Schedule, subject to modification by further agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


﻿16
ANNEX A
List of Educational Institutions
Parts A, B and C of the Project
Boarding       Staff
Type of               Name/              Student Places              Places       Houses
Institution          Location        Additional       Total       (Additional)  (Additional)
I.-Teacher 7Tain-
ing Institutions
The Academy of
Pedagogy including
Primary Teacher
Training Institute   Bahr Dar            940            940            840          18
Primary Teacher
Training Institute
(extension)          Asmara              215            540            215            -
Junior Secondary
Teacher Training
Institute            Nazareth            640            640            640          25
Primary Teacher
Training Institute   Awassa              540            540            540           1
Sub-total                         2,335          2,660          2,235          44
II.-General
Secondary Schools
Ghinnir                                  240            240              -            -
Humera                                   240            240              -            -
Asezo                                    240            240              -            -
Assab                                    240            240              -            -
Chencha                                  240            240              -            -
Felege Neway                             240            240              -           -
Mahal Meda                               240            240              -            -
Sabata                                   320            320              -            -
Akaki                                    320            320              -            -
Awassa                                  400             400              -            -
Maichew                                  320            320              -            -
Combolcha                                360            360
Sub-total                         3,400          3,400              -           -
III -General Secondary
Schools (extensions)
Goba                                     200           1,000             -           1
Debre Tabor                              200            680              -
Asmara (Prince
Makonnen)                               400            1,520             -


﻿17
Boarding       Staff
Type of               Name/             Student Places              Places       Houses
Institution          Location        Additional      Total       (Additional)  (Additional)
Finote-Selam                            240            640              -           1
Bahr Dar                                200            600              -            -
Jigjiga                                 240            400              -           -
Harrar (Jr)                             320            960              -           -
Metu                                    240            640              -           -
Agaro                                   240            400              -           1
Bonga                                     -            400              -           -
Endeber                                 200            960              -           -
Debre Sina                              200            600              -           1
Hagare Hiwot
(Ambo)                                  200           1,320             -           -
Fitche                                    -            800              -           -
Dilla                                   200            680              -           1
Adigrat                                 320            880              -           1
Dembidollo                              200            520              -           1
Gimbi                                   200            960              -            -
Woldiya                                 200            920              -            -
Sub-total                        4,000          14,880             -           7
IV.-Multipurpose
Halls for Existing
General Secondary
Schools
Nefa Silk                                             1,160
Menelik II                                            1,440
Medane Alem                                           1,320
Kolfe                                                 1,160
Asfaw Wosen                                           1,480
Assela                                                1,640
Gondar                                                1,440
Asmara (Prince
Makonnen)                                             1,520
Adi Ugri                                              1,560
Debre Marcos                                          1,240
Bahr Dar                                               600
Asbe Teferi                                            800
Dire Dawa                                             1,160
Harrar (Jr)                                            960
Jimma (Miazia 27)                                     1,280
Hagare Hiwot
(Ambo)                                                1,320
Ghion                                                  800
Debre Zeit                                             840
Soddo                                                 1,000
Mekale                                                1,160
Lekemt                                                1,280
Dembidollo                                             520
Dessie II                                             1,480
Sub-total                                       27,160


﻿18
Boarding       Staff
Type of               Name/             Student Places              Places       Houses
Institution          Location       Additional       Total       (Additional)  (Additional)
V.-Agricultural
Institutes
Jimma                                    70            270            56            -
Hagare Hiwot
(Ambo)                                   20            120            24            1
Sub-total                           90            390            80            1
VI.-Agricultural
Training Centers
Holetta                                  40             40            40            2
Adwa                                     40             40            40            2
Alem Maya                                40             40            40            2
Sub-total                          120            120           120            6
VII.-Rural Educa-
tion Institutes
Robi                                    240            240            30            2
Bure                                    240            240             30           2
Shambu (extension)                      160            320            30            2
Sub-total                          640            800            90            6
TOTAL                           10,585         49,410          2,525          64


﻿19
ANNEX B
Technical Assistance
(numbers in parentheses refer to man-years
if not otherwise indicated)
(a)   Education survey (3-1/12): one economist-human resources expert (9
months), one socio-anthropologist-demographer (5 months), one general educator
(7 months), one industry-commerce expert (4 months), one agriculture expert (4
months), one mass-media expert (4 months), one management expert (4 months).
(b)   Agricultural education (5): one expert on agricultural education,
planning and teacher-training (3), external fellowships of one year (2).
(c)   Technical education (18): two mechanical engineers (6), two civil
engineers (6), two electrical engineers (6).
(d)   Junior secondary teacher training (19): one adviser to the principal
(3), one curriculum development expert (3), one expert on in-service training and
extension (1), expert teachers in languages, social science, science and mathematics,
industrial arts, commerce, home economics (12).
(e)   School maintenance section (1): one building maintenance specialist
during two periods of six months (1).
(f)   Project Unit (4): one project architect (4).
(g) Manpower Studies (3): one labor market analyst (1), one manpower
occupation analyst (1), one statistician (1).


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contractors for civil works shall be prequalified and the Borrower shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant from prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure
to be followed for the international bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    With respect to any contract for civil works of US$100,000 equivalent
or more, after bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the architectural
consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the Project Manager and the reasons for the
intended award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it
has any objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection
it may have.
4.    If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or if
its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    A conformed copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution, and before the submission of the first application
for withdrawal in respect of such contract.


﻿21
6.    With  respect to any   civil works contracts below  US$100,000
equivalent, the Borrower shall inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom the contract has been awarded and shall furnish to the Association a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and the
reasons for the award of contract. The Association shall promptly inform the
Borrower if it finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published
by the Bank in August 1969, or the provisions of this Schedule, and, in such
event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
7.    The Borrower will request the Association's prior approval for any
proposed change in a civil works contract involving a price increase of 10% or
more of the contract sum together with an explanation of the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.   Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association, for
its approval, the following:
(a)  lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price of each item.
Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with: (i) the Project
institutions; and (ii) the spaces for which the items are required. The items to
be purchased will be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent
with sound technical and procurement practices. Modifications to the furniture
and equipment lists made subsequent to the Association's approval which do not
exceed the equivalent of $1,000 for any one item, or in the aggregate 10% of
the total proceeds of the Credit allocated to equipment and furniture, and which
are in accordance with sound educational practices, may be made without the prior
approval of the Association; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
descriptions of the methods to be used for obtaining bids on an international basis.
2.    Financing out of the proceeds of the Credit will be limited to those
items of equipment and furniture specified in the approved lists mentioned in
subparagraph B 1 (a) above and identified in contract documents by the same
indices, codes and numbers as in the lists.
3.    If a contract is proposed to be awarded to a bidder other than the
lowest evaluated bidder, or a proposed award involves a difference in price of 10%
or more from the original estimate as shown pursuant to subparagraph B 1 (a)


﻿22
above, the Borrower will, after the bids have been evaluated and before making
the award, send to the Association, in sufficient time to obtain its comments,
a summary and analysis thereof and a brief justification of the Borrower's proposal
for the award.
4.    In cases not covered by paragraph 3 above, promptly after bids have
been evaluated and a contract has been awarded and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such
contract, the following will be sent to the Association:
(a)   certificate signed by the Project Manager that the goods covered by
the contract are in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the list
approved by the Association;
(b)   list of the bids received;
(c)   brief analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's decision
in making the award; and
(d)   conformed copy of the contract.
5.    The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for Proc,urement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to herein, or the provisions
of this Schedule, and in such event, no expenditures under such contract shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit shall be responsible for liaison with the Association and
with all appropriate authorities of the Borrower on matters relating to the execution
of the Project and shall have the responsibilities and power for the execution of
the Project, including, inter alia:
(a)   the coordination of the Project with ministries and government services
other than the Ministry of Education;
(b)   the approval of the civil works design of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(c)   the design and supervision of construction of items (iv) through (x)
of Part A of the Project together with the boarding facilities and staff houses
related to those items;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture and equipment
required for Part A 1. and A 2. of the Project;
(e)   the procurement of civil works, furniture and equipment, including
the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids and the making of
recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(f)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the firms of
architects and contractors provided for in Section 3.02 (a) and Section 3.03 of
this Agreement;
(g)   the regular inspection of all construction work;
(h)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the Association;
(i)   the coordination of the selection, briefing and supervision of the
experts for curriculum development and instruction; and
(j)   the preparation of applications for withdrawals from       the Credit
Account.
2.    The specific responsibilities and functions of the Project Manager, the Project
Coordinator and the Project Architect (all of whom, with the exception of the


﻿24
Project Manager shall serve in the Project Unit on a full-time basis) shall be as
follows:
(a)   Project Manager: overall guidance, supervision and execution of the
Project, including all such arrangements with other ministries and government
services as shall be necessary for Project implementation;
(b)   Project Coordinator: management of the Project Unit's activities under
the supervision of the Project Manager; and
(c)   Project Architect: guidance and overall supervision of the Project's civil
works and of the architectural consultants to be employed pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, and responsibility for the design and supervision of
construction of items (iv) through (x) of Part A of the Project together with the
boarding facilities and staff houses related to those items.


