,i
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
Report No. 10750-ANG
M I CRO)FICHE rCOPY
CONFIDENTIAL:
Report No. :10750-ANG    Type: (SAP)
Title:   FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Author: 11ERSIER, P
Ext. :34900 Room:J7043 Dept. :AF3PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
HEALTH PROJECT
October 23, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Operations Department II
Africa Region-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANGOLA
HEALTH PROJECT
Currency Eauivalents
Currency Unit                                    KWANZA (Kz)
US$1                                             KzSSO 1/
Kz 1,000                                         US$1.8
1/      The rate of Kz 550 applies to exports and imports. Individual transactions are conducted
through the commercial banks at free market rates (Kzl,600) as of April 30, 1992.
Measurms
Metric                                           British/US Eauivalent
I meter (m)                                     3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq. m)                           10.76 square feet
1 kldometer (km)                                0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (sq. kIm)    =               0.39 sq. mile
Glossary and Abbreviations
AIDS            Acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome
AfIDB           African DevQlopment Bank
EEC             European Economic Community
ETPS            Health Provincial Technical School (Escolas Tecnicas Provinciais de Saude)
FAPLA           Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola (Forcas Armadas Para Libertacao de Angola)
GOA             Government of Angola
IDA             International Development Association
IMS             Medium Level Institute for Health Technician (Institutos Medios de Saude)
IPPF            International Planned Parenthood Federation
ISE             Higher Level Institute for Nurses (Instituto Superior de Enfermagem)
MMS             Military Medical Service
MSP             Physicians Without Borders (Medicos Sin Fronteras)
MOH             Ministry of Health
MPLA            Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola
FP              Family Planning
NFPP            National Family Planning Program
NGO             Non Governmental Organization
PHN             Population, Health and Nutrition
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PNLS            National AIDS Control Progmm (Programa Nacional de Luta Contra o SIDA)
SIDA            Swedish International Development Authority
SRPA            Special Relief Program for Angola
SSA             Sub-Saharan Afrioa
STD             Sexually Tansmitted Disease
UNESCO          United Nations Educational, ScientiSc and Cultural Organization
UNFPA           United Nations Fund for Popuhtion Activities
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           (United States) Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



ANGQLA
HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PRO,ECT SUMMARY
Borrower:   People's Republic of Angola
Beneficiary: Ministry of Health (MOH)
Amount:      SDR   million (US$19.9 million equivalent)
Terms:       Standard, with 40 years' maturity
ProJect Description:
Objectives:   The project objectives are to: (a) strengthen MOH's capabilities in essential areas of
health policy, health sector management and public health program development;
and (b) improve health care in selected regions, through the rehabilitation of training
and health facilities, including the improvement of health training and service
delivery.
Comnents: (a)    Strenethening Health Sector Policy and Management through: (i) a
comprehensive technical assistance program in planning and management; (ii) short
term training for senior staff; and (iii) provision of consultancies for investment
studies; and
(b)    Selected Rehabilitation Program through: (i) support for priority national
health programs and Family Planning; (ii) rehabilitation of selected health posts in
the province of Huila; (iii) relocation and upgrading of the health professional
school, the health center and two health posts and minor rehabilitation and essential
equipment for the pediatric center and the municipal health center in Lubango; and
(iv) rehabilitation of the Porto Amboim hospital and two health posts.
Benefits:    The main benefits of the project would include: (i) strengthened MOH policy
maidng and management capabilities which will contribute to improve health
services and, in turn, the health status of the population; (ii) enhanced manpower
training; (iii) contribution to establishing an ef-ctive and sustainable health care
system oriented to providing basic services to the majority of the population; and
(iv) increased efficiency of public expenditures.
RislU:       The main risk is the weak management capacity of the health sector, the scarcity of
qualified staff, and MOH's inexperience with project implementation and
procurement procedures. These risks would be minimized irough implementtion
guidelines, provision of specialist services and staff training, the utilization of the
services of experienced NGOs and the use of standard bidding documents.



-2-
ProJect Cost Estimates
US$ million      -
Estimated Costs                        Local        Foreign      Total
Institutional Development               1.1          3.4         4.5
Rehabilitation Programs
AIDS/STD and Family Planning          0.1          1.1          1.2
Huila Province Health Posts           0.1          0.7         0.8
Lubango Health School                 1.0          7.7          8.7
Porto A nboim Hospital                0.6          2.3          2.9
PPF                                    001.2                      1.2
Total Base Costs                      2.9         16.4         19.3
Physical Contingencies                0.2          1.0          1.2
Price Contingencies                   0.3          1.4          1.7
Total Project Costs                     3.4         18.8        22.2*
Flnancing Plan
IDA                                     1.1         18.8         19.9
Government                             2.3                       2.3
Total                                 3.4                      2 2
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY94   FY95   FY96  FY97   FY98   FY99
IDA's Fiscal Years                                                l
Annual          3.4      5.7     6.8      2.8   1.0      0.2
Cumulative       3.4       9.1    15.9    18.7   19.7    19.9
* Excluding US$500,000 for taxes and duties.



ANGOLA
HIEALTH PRQIECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
PART I.         INTRODUCTION                   ............................  1
PART H.         SECTORAL CONTEXT                  ............................ 1
A.      Socioeconomic Background ...........................   1
B.  The Health Sector ............................. 3
C.      Health Sector Issues ............................                        12
D.      Health Sector Strategy  ............................   14
PART m.         THE PROJECT                    ............................   15
A.      Project Objectives ................................  15
B.      Project Description  .................   15
C.      Project Costs and Financing Plan  ...........               ......   18
D.      Project Implementation ..................                                21
PART IV.        PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  .........................  28
A.      Benefits          ........              ................   28
B.      Risks             ........               ................   28
PART V.         AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ........ ...........  29
A.   Prior to negotiations ............................... 29
B.      During negotiations ...............................  29
C.      Conditions of effectiveness  ............          ..............  30
D.      Conditions of disbursement ............            ..............  30
E.      Recommendation  ................................  30
This rport is based on the findings of an ppraisal mission that visited Angola in ApriUMay 1992. The mission members were
Messrs./Mmes.: Pierre Mersier, Miuion Leader, Eugene Boogstom, Health Speciaist; Christian Rey, Implementation Specialist;
Eileen Murray, Fnancial Analyst. The Report was processed by Mrs. Franpoise Duchesne. Dr. Salim Habayeb, Juliana Weisman
and Deas Broun were the peer reviewers. Mr. Francisco Aguire-Sacasa and Mr. Abin Coiliou are the Department Director and
Managing Division Chief respectively for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.    Basic Data Sheet and Comparative Indicators
2.1   MOH Organizational Structure
2.2   Health Sector Financing
2.3   Health Care Facilities
2.4   Health Personnel and Training Facilities
2.5    MOH Statement on Issues and Policy Actions in the Health, Population and Nutrition Sector
3.1   PIU Description and Terms of Reference
3.2   Technical Assistance Terms of Reference
3.3   Training Programs
3.4   AIDS and Family Planning Programs
3.5   Health Posts in Huila Province - Description
3.6   Lubango Health School Organizational Chart and Architectural Progiam
3.7   Porto Amboim Hospital and Health Posts Rehabilitation, Functioning and Architectural
Program
3.8   Project Costs
3.9   Project Performance Key Indicators
3.10  Supervision Summary
3.11  Implementation and Disbursement Schedules
MAP  IBRD 23931



PARTI - INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of Angoia has requested IDA's assistance in financing the rehabilitation
and progressive expansion of its health system as part of the country's development efforts. The
Government is in the process of defining a policy for the sector, including health planning and
management, medical education and the improvement of health services delivery. The estimated
project cost is about US$22.2 million (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange
component of US$18.8 million (about 84 percent). Taxes and import duties amount to
US$500,000. Contributions from the Government total US$2.3 million, with a remaining
US$19.9 million equivalent financed by IDA.
1.2   The project will be IDA's first contrioution to Angola's health sector. The project will
help the Government strengthen its capabilities in essential areas of health policy, health sector
management and public health program development, and improve health care in selected regions,
through the rehabilitation of training and health facilities, including the improvement of training
and service delivery.
PART I - SECTORAL! CONTEX
A.    SOCIQECONOMIC BACKGROUND
Setting
2.1    Angola is the fifth largest country in Africa (1,246,000 square kilometers) and is endowed
with abundant natural resources. In addition to extensive lani areas suitable for agricultural and
livestock production, the country has large forests, a 1,650 kilometer coastline on the Atlantic
with rich fishing grounds, and rivers with considerable potential for hydraulic powe.r generation.
Its mineral resources include diamonds, iron, manganese, copper, and extensive petroleum
reserves. The production and export of oil is presently the mainstay of the economy and accounts
for half of the GDP of approximately US$720 per capita, 90% of exports, and almost all
government revenue.
Population
2.2    Angola had a total population estimated at 10 million in 1990. The population density of
8 inhabitants per Km2 is less than half the sub-Saharan African (SSA) average. The population
grew at an estimated annual rate of 2.5 percent in 1980-89, compared to 3.2 percent for SSA.
About 51 percent of the population is female, and approximately 51 percent of the total population
is below 14 years of age. The urban population represents 37 percent of the total population and
grew at an estimated annual rate of 7.5 percent in 1987-90, compared with an estimated 0.30
percent average annual growth (0.10 percent in 1990) for the rural population during the same
period. The crude birth rate of 47 per thousand for the 1980-85 period reflects a high total -
fertility rate combined with a large proportion of women of fertile age. The crude mortality rate
of 19 per thousand for the same period is significantly higher than the average in SSA. Civil
war, since independence in 1975, has been responsible for widespread malnutrition, precarious
sanitary conditions, high illiteracy, and inadequate health facilities.



-2 -
Status of the Economy
2.3    Despite the country's abundant natural resources and the rapid developierat of the oil
sector, the economic growth r dte has been disappointingly low during the past ten years. The
poor performance of the ecoLomy is largely explained by three factors: (a) the civil war, which
made life in the countryside too insecure for agricultural production and transport, required heavy
military expenditures (contributing to chronically large fiscal deficits), and destroyed a substantial
part of the economic and physical infrastructure; (b) severe human resource constraints, due to the
massive exodus of Portuguese settlers at Independence and the resulting skiil shortages; and (c)
ineffective economic management with excessive reliance on central planning and pervasive
administrative controls.
2.4    This sitt'ation has affected many sectors of the economy. Angola, which was an
important net exporter of agricultural products, has in recent years `ieen increasingly dependent on
food imports (and food aid) to supply its urban population. There are severe shortages of
essential consumer goods and services throughout the country. Marketing infrastructure and rural
trade systems have been devastated, and a policy centered on support to state enterprises has
perpetuated the colonial tradition of overlooking the dominant peasant sector. There is a shortage
of trained personnel in all sectors. The concentration of war-displaced populations in various
rural and urban fringe areas is a contributing factor to environmental degradation.
2.5    A limited recovery was achieved in certain sectors until 1981, but non-oil output declined
again thereafter. In most sectors, output has remained far below the ievels reached during the
colonial period. With the exception of the oil industry, the capacity utilization of manufacturing
industries has been severely affected by lack of inputs, spare parts and maintenance services, as
well as the distorted policy environment. The fiscal deficit has been about 25% of GDP on
average in recent years, and a massive external debt accumulated.
Economic Prqsnects
2.6   Since early 1991, peace has been achieved and significant progress has been made in
introducing initial economic reforms.  In March 1991, the Government opened the door to
multipartism, and on May 31, a comprehensive peace agreement was signed - with mediation by
Portugal, the U.S., and the former Soviet Union. So far, the internationally-monitored
implementation of the agreement has proceeded well. The assembly and disarmament phases of
demobilization are in the process of being completed, although reintegration of the former soldiers
and officers into the economy is only beginning; elections took place at the end of September
1992 and the new national army is being formed, with a purely defensive mission.
2.7    After formulating but not implementing several economic reform plans since 1987, the
Government enacted a far-reaching package of reforms between November 1991 and January,
1992. The reforms included currency devaluation, remonetization of public sector wages,
abolition of most price controls, removal of most profit margin controls, and initial transfers of
public enterprises to private operators. These reforms have radically altered the incentive
framework and had immediate effects on reducing the distartions in Angola's economy.
However, without fiscal contraction and monetary restraint, there is a risk that inflation will
nullify these benefits. Important key structural constraints remain, including the extreme
institutional weakness, the war-devastated infrastructure, and the ineffective incentive system.



-3 -
Angola's medium and longer term growth prospects depend on four factors: (a) continued peace;
(b) the speed and success with which economic policy reforms proceed; (c) the rapid rehabilitation
of the economic and social infrastructure; and (d) the need to overcome the constraint on longer
term development imposed by the shortage of skilled personnel and low level of education.
2.8    Angola needs support in its transition from war to peace, from authoritarian to
accountable governance, from a command economy to a market-based system, and from
consumption- oriented to investment-oriented policies. The objective of the strategy which the
Bank proposes for Angola is to facilitate a rapid economic transition, to help create a fully open
market-based economic system by 1995, to mobilize resources that would put Angola on the path
to sustained, economic growth so as to generate the resources needed to develop its human
capital. A sharp and rapid reduction of public consumption will be needed in order to release
resources for well-conceived public investments (for economic and social infrastructure) and for
private investment. Import-dependent private consumption must also contract substantially. In
addition, the efficiency of public expenditure must rise, not only by a reallocation from military
(currently estimated at 15-20% of GDP) to developmental and social services spending, but also
by tightening the management and improving the quJity of expenditures across the board. This
must include the promotion of efficient and imaginative ways to cushion the social effects of the
transition as part of a comprehensive program of public expenditure, including provisions for a
well-targeted "safety net." An immediate priority is to improve the effectiveness of the
institutions charged with public expenditrre programming and execution. One focus needs to be
on public investment, particularly in view of the massive aid coordination problems. Donors in
general have expressed support for Bank leadership in aid coordination. Angola needs to ensure
that scarce IDA resources are used in a catalytic way, and to mobilize as much as possible
co-financing and/or provide a general program umbrella within which other donors' assistance can
take place in pursuit of common objectives and based on well-defined and agreed criteria.
B.    THE HEALTH SECTOR
Population. Health and Nutrition: Status and Determining Factors
2.9   Population and Family Planning. Angola's population grew at average aanual rates
estimated at 2.8% in 1965-1980 and 2.5% in 1980-89 with a current birth rate estimated at
47/1,000 population and a current crude death rate estimated at 19/1,000 population. The total
fertility rate is estimated to be 6.5 in 1990. These estimates are tentative and are based on weak
data: a national Demographic and Health Survey proposed for 1993/94 and a proposed national
census will provide a better population data base. The high fertility rate constitutes a contributing
factor to poor maternal and child health.   -
2.10  The Ministry of Plan's Population Studies Unit is developing a National Population and
Family Planning Policy. The National Family Planning Program (NFPP) is part of the Maternal
and Child Health Department in the Ministry of Health's National Public Health Directorate.
There is unmet demand for family planning services. NFPP has been expanding, with financial
and technical support from UNFPA (training, medical equipment and supplies, and some contra-
ceptives), Swedish SIDA (coordination of obstutric care in Luanda Province), and the
Iaternational Planned Parenthood Federation (population sensitization/mobilization for
MCH/family planning, and the majority of the NFPP's contraceptives). UNICEF supports



-4-
community level activities, with empiAasis on the training and supervision of traditional birth
attendants. There are now 43 NFPP family planning service points, nationwide, and UNFPA
estimates that contraceptive prevalence rate will approach 6% in 1993 (although reliable estimates
of current lovels are not available). Eowever, NFPP remains an urban program with limited
coverage. A National Conference on Safe Motherhood, in December 1991, strongly supported
expansion of family planning services, strengthening their integration into maternal and child
health care, assuring adequate community awareness, and giving special attention to the needs of
adolescents. In addition to permitting couples to control their own fertility, a clearly defined and
mandated national population program and greatly augmented family planning services could
contribute to slowiLg the population growth rate (thereby decreasing the requirements for social
services, and housing) and to improving health (for example, through lengthened birth intervals,
and reduced high-risk pregnancies and births).
2.11   Mortality and Morbidity. UNICEF has estimated the Infant Mortatility Rate (IMR) and
the under-five mortality rate in 1988, at 172 per 10,000 (it was estimated at 154 in 1980) and
70.6 per 10.000 respectively. There are among the highest figures in the world. The major
causes of death include malaria, acute respiratory infection, diarrheal diseases and prenatal
tetanus. Malnutrition contributes to the high mortality rates: one hospital study in Luanda
associated 50% of child deaths with malnutrition. Maternal mortality was estimated at 5.7 per
1000 live births in 1988 and 6.5 in 1989, but was much higher in some areas, such as Huambo
(19.6 in 1988) and Kuando Kubango (16.1 in 1988).
2.12   Data collected from the records of Luanda cemeteries in 1989 indicate that 52% of deaths
were attributed to infectious and parasitic diseases. Infectious disease statistics for the first
semester of 1990 indicate that the six most common infectious diseases reported are malaria
(53.0%), acute diarrheal disease (24.7%), acute respiratory disease (17.7%), schistosomiasis
(1.0%), cholera (1.0%), and measles (1.0%). The diseases targeted by the Expanded Program of
Immunization caused 15.1% of infectious disease deaths. AIDS is a growing problem, with 195
cases reported by June 1990 and 420 reported as of May 1992. WHO estimates that during the
year 1992 700 new AIDS cases will occur, 120 of them among children. MOH officials are
certain there is substantial under-reporting and suspect that by now AIDS has spread throughout
the country, although case reports are concentrated in Luanda and in the areas bordering Zaire.
The number of HIV infected persons is estimated at 10,000 in 1992. However, this number
could increase rapidly due to increased mobility within the country and to the return of Angolans
from neighboring countries where the HIV prevalence is much higher. Tuberculosis,
trypanosomiasis, yellow fever and rabies are resurgent problems.
2.13   Nutrition and Food Security. Malnutrition and food insecurity are widespread. The MOH
estimates that at least 20% of the under-five children ate malnourished since the mid-1980s.
Factors contributing to malnutrition in Angola include war, decreased agricultural production, and
drought. Food production and importation data show a continual foL I insecurity since the second
half of the 1980s. A recent UNICEF/Ministry of Plan household survey in Luanda indicated that
70% of Luanda's population could be classified as food insecure and that malnutrition is
widespread. While health services have an important role to play in nutrition education and in the
prevention, detection and treatment of malnutrition and of related diseases, major improvements
in food security and in nutritional status will require coordinated improvemenis in many areas
(e.g., agriculture, food transportation and marketing, income distribution, poverty, safe water
supply).



2.14 Water and Sanitation. Approximately 30% of the total population, primarily in urban
areas, has access to safe water. Water supply in Luanda is subject to frequent interuptions, and
cross-onnections lead to fecal contamination of the city's inadequately chlorinated water supply
when the f.equent pressure losses occur. Given the high incidence of water-borne diseases
(incIuding cholera outbreaks in recent years), waver supply and sanitation should be given high
priority as means of improving health status. In some cases, discussions with government
officials and donor representatives have indicated that although major rehabilitation of urban water
distribution systems will require large investments over a period of years, repairs to the
production systems could be accomplished relatively quickly, with major potential benefits to the
urban populations. In addition, water supply and sanitation problems in many health facilities ars
serious and shall be a focus of priority attention in rehabilitation efforts,
Health Services Coverage and Facilities
2.15   Health Services Coverag. Only an estimated 30% of Angola's population has access to
health services. In the aftermath of war, Angola faces serious problems in providing adequate
health care due to the deterioration of health facilities, shortages in medical supplies, and
geographic distribution of service heavily biased in favor of urban areas. Health services are at
present accessible primarily to the inhabitants of Luanda and of provincial capitals and
immediately adjacent areas. Of the country's 163 municipalities, only 43 (26.4%) have i
physician. Immunization coverage is low, although it has improved markedly in recent years in
the cities of Luanda and Lubango. There are marked differences in coverage among provinces.
At the national level, officially reported immunization coverage rates for 1990 were 48% for
BCG, 24% for DPT3, 23% for polio 3, 38% for measles, and, among pregnant women, 25% for
Tetanus Toxoid 2.
2.16 Medical/Health facilities. Health care facilities are classified into three levels of care:
(a) at the primary level - health posts, rural/urban health centers and municipal health centers;
(b) at secondary level - municipal, provincial and regional hospitals; and (c) at the apex - national
hospitals. The distribution of facilities by types and location is summarized in Table 2.1 below.
Table 2.1: Health Facilities
TYPE OF FACILllY        IN_PQINCIAL             IN RURAL                TOTAL
CAPITALS               AREAS
HOSPITALS                     32                     26                   58
HEALTH CENTERS                71                    106                   177
HEALTH POSTS                 20Q                    572                  133
.863                    711                  1574
Source: MOH, 1990



-6-
2.17   The number of inpatient beds is estimated at 12,000. This figure translates to ai average
of about 12 beds per 10,000 population, with 7 bedsil0,000 population in national/provincial
hospitals and 5 beds/10,00P population in health centers/nunicipal hospitals. There is a marked
regional variation in bed supply, ranging from 3.9 beds per 10,000 population in Malange to 41.6
per 10,000 population in Luanda Morte. About 16.5 beds per 10,00(0 population are available in
the capital, Luanda.
2.18   Most health facilities have become inop"rable. The physical infrastructure (primary care
units, health centers, general hospitals and sanatoria) is often overcrowded in terms of patients,
but underutilized in terms of functions appropriate to the level of each facility, because of its
deteriorated condition, lack of basic equipment, and severe shortages of supplies. Annex 2.3
prcvides statistics on the disxibution of health care facilities by type of facility and by prov-nce.
2.19   Most facilities were built in the 1960s to early 1970s and are in need of replacement,
substantial renovation or upgrading. Many buildings are functionally and physically obsolescent.
Primary care services are poorly equipped in terms of essential diagnostic and treatment
equipment, essendal drugs, transport and communication facilities and basic supplies. Within
individual institutions, the number of beds per area of floor space needs major adjustment and the
patients' comfort needs to be improved. In the case of larger health institutions, renovation rather
than replacement is the preferred option, it being the cheaper option in the short run even though
preliminary assessments show that overall efficiency gains and reduced operating costs could be
achieved through replacement. In the case of primary care units and health centers, replacement
is more often the most cost-effective approach, as many facilities are makeshift and housed in
former residential and commercial units which are inappropriate for the purpose. Considering
that the great majority of the existing primary and secondary level health facilities need major
repairs and/or replacement, there is a strong case for dwveloping and using standard building
designs to improve efficiency and reduce operating costs.
2.20 The Military Medical Service (MMS) operates a network of health facilities which serve
primarily military personnel, but also, in some areas, the general population. The MMS health
facilities include the Principal Military Hospital in Luanda (400 beds), a Central Hospital in
Huambo (300 beds), three first class hospitals (180 beds each), and a classified number of 60-bed
hospitals, 50-bed infirmaries, and one medical post for each 1,000 soldiers in military area of the
country. Information gathered by WHO in Luanda from the Special Relief Program for Argola
(SRP-  toe High Commission for Refugees, and ONGs active in the field indicates that as of
1991 approximately 339 non-MOH facilities were functioning in areas which were under UNITA
influence or control during the war, with most of the facilities in the provinces of Kuando
Kubango (214) and Bie (114).
Human Resources and Training
2.21 Quantitative and qualitative health manpower problems, both immediately and over the
long term, are among the most serious challenges faced by the MOIH. Human resources in the
health sector need to be inventoried and reviewed, as the first step in developing the human
resour;as sections of a National Health Development Plan. The review should build upon the
initial findings of a recent sector review flnan-ced by the African Development Bank (AfDB). The
appropriateness of the mixed skills and levels of personnel, and their deployment and use within
the system, need X be carefully considered, along with the appropriateness of training programs.



-7 -
2.22  Angola lacks specialized health workers particularly since the departure of Cuban and
eastern European physicians and technic&q. It is estimated that 85% of MOH personnel have
educational levels corresponding to eight or fewer years of schooling. Official MOH reports
indicate that as of 1990 the number of MOH health workers was 27,771, including 662 physicians
(of whom 281 in Luanda and 412 foreigners), 13 other higher level, 9,145 paramedical (mainly
nurses, all but approximately 600 of them "basic" nurses), 1,691 traditional birth attendants,
4,165 health promoters (and others with little or no health training), 10,047 administrative
personnlI, and 2,048 low-level workers. These MOH data exclude military health workers. The
i itios of providers to population derived from these data (one physician per 15,000 persons and
one nurse per approximately 1,500 persons) are characttristic of low income countries. In
addition, 36% of all MOH physicians and 23% of MOH paramedical personncl are in Luanda
where only 15% of the national population leaves. Annex 2.4 shows the distributions of MOH
health personnel by type and by province given by other WHO/Government sources.
2.23   Demobilization of military health personnel (physicians and others) would increase the
number of trained and experienced health workers. The government forces include approximately
250 physic-ans. Up to 10,000 other military personnel have some health training, including one
thousand with at least 3 months' intensive training in curative care and sanitation. Most military
health personnel have had at least several years of experience in the army. Some of the
physicians worked in the MOH after completing medical school and before mobilization. A few
military physicians have postgraduate training in public health and health systems management.
Some of the demobilized personnel, including physicians, other health workers, and trainers of
health workers, will be absorbed into the MOH, and some of those with post-training service
obligations could be assigned to complete their military service within the MOH.
2.24  There are three types of health training institutions in Angola (Annex 2.4): (a) 21
Provincial Health Traininv Schools (Escolas Tecnicas Provinciais de Saude, ETPS, at least one in
each province) administered exclusively by the Ministry of Health (MOH); (b) seven Mid-Level
Health Training Institutes (Institutos Medios de Saude, IMS) administered by MOH but under the
pedagogical supervision of the Ministry of Education (MOE); and (c) one High-Level Nursing
Institute (Instituto Superior de Enfermagem, ISE) in Luanda administered by MOH but also under
the pedagogical supervision of Ministry of Education through the Agostinho Neto University. In
addition, the university's Fac"'ty of Medicine trains physicians, and medical internships and
practical health worker training are provided in four hospitals in Luanda. The ETPSs provide
basic courses ranging from basic nursing care to health promotion activities. The IMSs provide
technical traning for more specialized nursing skills and for pharmacology, radiology and
laboratory technicians at the pre-university level (grades 9-12). The ISE provides training at the
post-secondary level leading to bachelors degrees in nursing, health management, health education
and research. In the 1980's, the Swedish aid agency (SIDA) provided long term technical
assistance to improve training, with a particular focus on a revised training program for mid-level
nurses; MOH training officials report that the new curriculum is now being used in the training of
both mid-level and basic level nurses. A fundamental restructuning of training programs is
needed, coordinated wi.th ther changes leading to a more rational distribution of health facilities
and personnel across the country and carried out in conjunction with reforms in the structure of
the Angolan education system. MOH is considering major reforms in the system of health
worker training, which will be facilitated by parallel reforms to be carried out in and by the
Ministry of Education. Major changes in health worker training proposed by the MOH include
changes in admissions standards (and admissions testing), reduction in the numbers of health



-8-
training institutions, merging of the mid-level and basic level training institutions, elimination of
general education components from the curricula, reduction in the length of certain curricula,
introduction of higher standards, and changes In the status and working conditions of non-
university trainers.
2.25 Health training facilities are in general inappropriately housed and poorly equipped and
staffed. The health training institutions are inefficient and unable to provide the appropriate
learning environment to trainees. The wide dispersal and limited capacities of these facilities
make it uneconomic to provide a wider range of health training opportunities in most of them.
The schools also cannot provide boarding, needed to accommodate non-local trainees. Boarding
could help make the operation of these institutions more viable and sustainable, for example by
reducing dropout rates and permitting cost-effective specialization of certain institutions to train
specific types of health workers for several provinces or even for an entire region. Annex 2.4
provides statistics on the distribution of health training facilities.
Health Policy and Legislation
2.26 Current Angolan law charges the MOH with assuring the universal availability of free
health services within the country. In 1975, private medical practice was banned. Angola has a
declared primary health care policy. In 1986, the Ministry of Health adopted the following
priorities: (i) strengthening health nutritional information and guidance education, and prevention;
(ii) immunization of the population, especially against measles and tetanus; (iii) water supply and
environmental sanitation; (iv) maternal and child health, including family planning; (v) prevention
and control of the principal endemic diseases (especially malaria); (vi) training of health personnel
and improvement of their geographic distribution; (vii) improvement in logistic support for health
services (improved distribution of drugs and of other medical goods and supplies); and
(viii) implementation of an information system.
2.27  In December 1991, the government approved five important laws and decrees which
would strengthen health policies and the health system. They included the following: National
Health System (Lei de Base do Sistema Nacional de Cuidados de Saude); Private Practice
Authorization (Regulamento do Exercicio da Medicina Privada); Public Medical Practice in the
NHS (Regulamento do Regime Especial de Carreiras Medicas do Servigo Nacional de Sadde);
Pharmacy Ownership and Practice (Regulamento do Exercicio da Actividade Farmaceutica); and
Private Health Services (Regulamento das Instituigoes Privadas de Assistencia Medico-Sanitaria).
The first law, from which the others are derived, was approved by the People's Assembly in
April 1992, but only after intense debates regarding private health care and fees and with the
condition that the application of the law will be suspended until late in 1992 (i.e., after the
September elections). Therefore, the new laws and decrees have yet to be published.
2.28   The new, unpublished and unimplemented health law provides for fundamental
improvements in the health sector, for example by re-authorizing and regulating the private
practice of medicine and user payments for health services and by encouraging
decentralization/deconcentration of health services management. However, the law and its
accompanying decrees could be significandy improved upon. Revisions to the decrees (or, with
much greater difficulty, to the law itself) should be made prior to the implementation of the raw.
In particular, the decrees should clarify and strengthen matters related to private health insurance,
incentives for the private management of pubiic sector health services, and specific allowance for



-9 -
the coexistence of private sector activities within public hospitals. In a related area, change is
already underway through the involvement of private enterprises, under contract, in the provision
of management and support services for health facilities and services (such as management and
support of the rehabilitated Americo Boavida Hospital). Other health sector decrees, norms and
regulations which have been prepared and discussed, but never issued, deal with important
reforms in MOH training programs, with norms for peripheral health facilities, and with family
planning.
MOH Organization and Management
2.29   The current organizational structure of the MOH (Annex 2.1), is centralized. There is an
extreme degree of concentration of decision-making. MOH officials have expressed interest in
decentralization and regionalization as part of an approach to overcoming their recognized
problems in the planning, management, provision and support of health services. The Minister
does not have a Director to assist him on policy issues. Moroever, management and planning
skills are scarce, and technical professionals (physicians, nurses) with little or no management
expertise are in charge at most levels. Actions to overcome these problems, particularly in the
context of decentralization, will need to consider realistic assessments of current staff availability
and should be based on definitions of the roles, responsibilities and attributes associated with key
posts at each level of the health care system. Inadequate information availability and use are
serious obstacles to more effective planning and management in MOH. MOH is also weak in the
related areas of supervision and evaluation. Special attention needs to be given to training health
managers, to incorporating appropriate basic management and planning skills in health workers'
training curricula, and to in-service training to upgrade those skills among those who need them
in their work. Simultaneously, the planning and management systems of the MOH need to be
reviewed and rehabilitated.
2.30   Health planning capacity is weak, because of the lack of competent staff and the weakness
of the data base. To a great extent donor-developed project have replaced, effective national and
provincial health planning. A comprehensive National Health Developrient Plan needs to be
developed to translate health policies into specific objectives and progr:ams supported by well-
documented cost and resource estimates and a realistic timetable. Ope .ating costs and
sustainability should be considered for each intervention and for the prposed programs and
actions. The recently proposed legislation regarding the health sector, described above, provides
the opportunity for health planning to include development of the private sector, while
maintaining the essential role and functions of the MOH in the sector. Health services are an
important part of the set of services which will be necessary to permit and encourage dislocated
populations to return to and remain in their areas of origin. The end of the military conflict
makes it possible and necessary for the government to restore destroyed, deteriorated and
dysfunctional health facilities and services. There is a need to rehabilitate health facilities
damaged or deteriorated during the years of war and certain priority rehabilitation and
reconstruction efforts are needed immediately, and an overall rehabilitation and infrastructure
investment and maintenance program should be a main component of a National Health
Development Plan. This will require, inte aD, (i) a clear set of decision criteria regarding the
sizes, types and functions of failities to be provided; and (ii) an inventory of the status of current
and potential service capacity of health facilities (public, private and NGO) throughout the -
country. The national health development plan should provide a framework for provincial plans.
Given the low levels of service accessibility and the high levels of preventable disease, broad-



- 10-
based, high coverage preventive programs need to be emphasized in Angola's health plans,
through expansion of coverage, provision for direct support to existing programs, and integration
of existing vertically-oriented programs into a more coordinated overall program which should
enhance the efficiency of the overall efforts. Donor support for those efforts needs to be well-
coordinated.
2.31   The war, which destroyed or closed many health facilities, also made supervision, support
and logistics in many areas of the country difficult or impossible. Even in accessible zones,
however, there are majot deficiencies in those areas. Health staff supervision visits, which
normally are also the occasion to resupply the local health facilities with drugs and other supplies,
took place regularly in less than half of the communes in the 7 (of 18) provinces reporting, and
the situation is likely to be worse in the 1I provinces not reporting. Drug and supply shortages
and outages have been frequent, even in major hospitals. Supply of drugs in the form of kits
tailored to provide essential drugs appropriate to the functions of peripheral health facilities has
helped, but inappropriate use (related to inadequate training of staff) has caused wastage. With
peace and increased access, upgrading and expanding supervision, support and logistics for MOH
health services constitutes a major challenge which needs to be faced in the context of clear
definitions of the functions, staffing and support needs of each level of health care facility. The
National Health Development Plan must provide that context and specify the means of meeting
this challenge, with realistic adaptations to local conditions and to the availability of personnel and
of other resources.
Health Financing
2.32 Government Financing of Health Setor= Health services are financed from the general
budget of the government (6.3% in 1988). The incompleteness of the available information
makes it difficult to analyze health expenditures in Angola, and the financing pattern will likely
change somewhat once the new health law is implemented. The health budget as a percentage of
GNP decreased from 3.3% in 1985 to 2.7% in 1988 and 1.89% in 1989. Moreover, actual
expenditures in the health sector have fallen far short of the budgeted amounts, by 50% in 1990,
(Annex 2.2, Tables PER 2 and 3). The 1991 Ministry of Health budget is summarized in the
following table.



ffi                        ~~~~~~~~~~- 11 -
Table 2.2: Ninistrv of Health 1991 Actual Expenditures
(MitLions K(z)
NATURE                                    AMOUNT                   PERCENTAGE
Personnel                                14,968.7                    48.8
Goods                                     2,369.5                     7.7
Pharmaceuticals                           4,221.9                     13.8
Services                                  2,298.6                     7.5
External Aid                              2,429.4                     7.9
Investments                              4-394.3                     14.3
TOTAL                  30.682.5                    100.0
Source: Ministry of Finances, Budget 1991
2.33   After decades of relative neglect, major expenditures for replacement, rehabilitation/repair
and maintenance of facilities and equipment are needed. The proportion of expenditures for
personnel costs is likely to increase with re-monetarization of the economy, with budgeted costs
approaching the real values of payments to the workers, due to the cessation or reduction of
indirect payments through foreign exchange purchasing rights. This will leave fewer funds for
payment of non-salary recurrent expenditures, which already are inadequate. Drugs occupy an
important, but not dominant place in the budget. Shortages and outages of essential drugs have
been reported, in spite of donor-assisted efforts to assure their supply and distribution. MOH
budgets and expenditure data for recent years indicate that drug expenditures increased between
1986 and 1988, then decreased in both relative and absolute terms to about 14% of MOH
expenditures in 1990 and 1991, although MOH expenditures on health also decreased significantly
in 1991 (Annex 2.2, Table PER 4).
2.34 Donor Support and NGO Activities. Official foreign aid is important in the health sector.
WHO estimates that external assistance amounts to about 25% of MOH expenditures in the health
sector and that about 80% of that assistance is directed to the rehabilitation and restructuring of
hospital/medical services and for acquisition of equipment. Major donors active in Angola's
health sector include Sweden (health manpower, endemic disease control, health education,
essential drugs, AIDS), the European Economic Community (infrastructure), the African
Development Bank (essential drugs, pharmaceutical industry, health sector studies and TA,
institutional strengthening of MOH), Italy (infrastructure rehabilitation through EEC and
bilaterally, essential drugs, epidemiology, TA), UNICEF (immunization, nutrition, community
health), UNFPA and IPPF (family planning), and WHO (technical advice to MOH).
Representatives of the donors and of the Ministies of Health and Plan have confirmed that they
would welcome Bank assistance in the coordination of donor support to the health sector.
2.35   Data indicate the hi! degree of dependence on foreign support for health sector
investments, either through grants (31.1%) or long-term loans (65.5%) (Annex 3, Table PER 8).
The largest portion of current investments (48.3 %) is for the pharmaceutical sector, supported by
the US$103 million project financed by the Afl)B and Belgium. The EEC-financed rehabilitation
of the Americo Boavida Hospital is the second largest. OnIV about 6% of the investment



- 12 -
expenditures are for primary health care, while 20% are for the secondary care level (municipal
and district hospitals) ana 29% for the tertiary level. There is a notable concentration on
rehabilitation of municipal hospitals, some of which were severely damaged in the war.
Extremely little (0.6%) is being invested at present in training facilities.
2.36 Health Expenditures covered by enterprises. Dublic (parastatal) and private firms provide
or finance curative health care services for their salaried employees, and in some cases for the
families of their employees. Services offered, service quality, the inclusion of family members,
and the mechanisms for provision or payment of services vary greatly among firms. Very little
information is available regarding the costs and the number of persons covered. Certain firms
also finance portions of the operating costs of MOH health facilities near their principal worksites
in some provinces. Recently, certain firms have made services available for non-affiliated paying
patients at some of their own health services facilities.
C.    HEALTH SECTOR ISSUES
MOH Planning and Management Capacity
2.37   The MOH needs to be strengthened to play its role in Angola's development and in the
current transitions. For the MOH, particular challenges are presented by: (a) the need to
incorporate demobilized military health personnel and facilities; (b) to extend the provision of
health care to previu. sly inaccessible areas and for resettled or returning populations; (c) the need
to improve allocative efficiency; (d) the coordination of donor support and of intersectoral
programs; and (e) the development of more adequate health services support and management
programs. In order to deal with these challenges, MOH organizational structure will have to be
revisited (with creation of a technical director position under the Minister of Health). Human
resources constraints of MOH will have to be addressed. This will have to be in the context of
the redefinition of public and private/NGO sector roles in health, and the demobilization of army
health personnel.
The Limited Coverage and Quality of Health Services
2.38   There is a need to increase the coverage of health services and to improve their quality,
and to develop acceptable and effective cost-recovery mechanisms. It will be necessary to specify
a set of priority PHN services to be provided at each level of the PHN services system, and to
conform the sector's plans and expenditure patterns to those priorities. The new health law
approved in April 1992 authorizes private/N.GO health care, permits user charges for health
services, and partially specify relationships between the MOH and private and NGO subsector
actors in the health sector. The new law is compatible with the Bank's view that government
should set health policy and priorities, coordinate programs, assure adequate quality control and
the maintenance of appropriate priorities (e.g., regarding preventive care), and develop
sustainable financing mechanisms for health services, while increasing the participation of the
private and NGO sectors in the direct provision of health services. At negotiations, the Bank will
discuss with government Bank-proposed modifications of the new health law and of the
accompanying implementation decrees, modifications which would eliminate or reduce certain
constraints to competition (e.g., regarding authorization for individuals and firms to enter private
medical practice and certain aspects of pharmaceutical product approval and packaging).
Specification of the exact roles and responsibilities of the public, private and NGO subsectors will



-13-
depend in part on the facilities and resources available in each subsector. This gives added
importance to carrying out inventories of facilities and personnel, to provide crucial data needed
for health system planning and management.
2.39   Health services provided or financed by firms warrant carefiul study on several grounds.
The facilities, services and financing which they provide, both in Luanda and in the provinces,
should be taken into account in the preparation of budgets and of a National Health Development
Plan. They constitute a nucleus of private (and parastatal) sector facilities and services, and their
experiences should be useful in planning for the implementation of the new health law and in
possible adjustments to the law and/or the accompanying implementation decrees. In some cases
they have applied limited user charges for their own beneficiaries. A few firms have begun to
provide preventive services (e.g., immunizations). They provide services whicb might relieve the
MOH of part of its burden of health services provision, and their potential bene. ciaries could
exceed two million since many firms cover the families of employees. Finally, the availability of
alternative curative services to a limited strata of the population, which happens to be a better-off
and politically influential, primarily the urban group, might tend to decrease that group's support
for the development of the kind of high-impact, high-coverage preventive and curative services
which are needed in order to make an effective health services contribution to improving the
health status of the entire population, and especially of those most at risk of major health
problems. The involvement of NGOs in the sector, the rehabilitation, construction and equipment
of health and health training facilities within the proposed health project, along with the project's
support for training, will contribute to improving the coverage and quality of health services
(Paras. 3.5 to 3.8).
The Inadequacy of Family Planning Services and of AIDS Control.
2.40 Angola's high maternal, infant and under-five mortality rates point to a need to improve
family planning services coverage. A large unmet demand for family planning services exists. In
the course of the proposed project, technical advisors will assist the MOH to review the current
and proposed policies and programs with regard to population, population growth and family
planning and to develop recommendations based on both health needs and more general
development considerations. The recommendations will focus on the further development and
integration of family planning services within public and private/NGO PHN services, but also on
the provision of family planning through other channels and on the need take initiatives which go
beyond family planning in order to encourage greater and more effective use of family planning
services (paras. 3.3 and 3.4).
2.41   AIDS is a growing threat. Technical advisors under the proposed project will assist MOH
officials to review the National AIDS Control Program. The reviews will cover, inter alia,
available information on AIDS in Angola, review existing programs and their appropriateness,
effectiveness, targeting, support and coordination. The advisors will assist MOH personnel to
assess the adequacy of the program, its needs for improvement and for additional support, and its
absorptive capacity, and to make recommendations to strengthen the program suid its targeting and
coverage. The proposed proje^t will also provide support for AIDS education Vtara. 3.4).



- 14 -
D.    SIE       SEC R          TEGY
2.42   The Government has prepared a Health Policy Statement and Public Expenditure Proposal
which follows a three-pronged strategy to improve health care in the country: (a) immediate large-
scale operational support to basic medical care, with a focus on Maternal and Child health; (b)
rehabilitation of the health infrastructure, starting with the most dilapidated facilities; and (c)
restructuration of the health system to improve its coverage and efficiency.
2.43   Part (a) of the strategy is aimed at addressing the most urgent medical needs of the most
vulnerable population groups through the provision of medical supplies in adequate quantities for
priority public health programs such as malaria control, immunizations, treatment of
communicable diseases, AIDS prevention and family planning. The health personnel in charge of
delivering these services will benefit from in-service training and technical assistance to improve
their performance as well as from demobilized military health personnel. This military staff,
estimated at 28,000 including 660 physicians, is experienced and will be distributed in areas
where needs are most important. Part (b) of the strategy will complement and enhance the
operational support just descr ,ied. The rehabilitation program will be balanced between primary
health care facilities and hospital structures on the basis of the National Heaith Plan prepared by
the MOH. This plan takes into consideration the specific needs of each region as well as the
distribution of resources between urban and rural areas. Part (c) of the strategy will have ?. long
term impact by addressing imbalances and structural inefficiencies of the current health system.
The restructuration of the health system will be guided by a clear definition of the respective roles
of the State and the non-governmental sector in health care and will be carried out along a reform
agenda including the functions and regulations of: (i) the health administration at both the central
and peripheral levels; (ii) public health car providers and public health services; (iii) private health
care providers; and (iv) non-profit NGOs involved in the health sector.
2.44   The basic principles of such a reorganization have been enunciated in the Health Policy
Statement. Under the new health sector law, the state will no longer be responsible for providing
free universal health care. User charges will be introduced, and private sector care will be paid
for by users or by third party payers. Given the low incomes and poor health status of a large
proportion of the Angolan population, cost recovery mechanisms should be carefully designed, on
the basis of relevant experience in Angola and elsewhere, and should be thoroughly tested prior to
widespread implementation. The proposed changes may alleviate part of the financial burden for
health services. However, private services are likely to be curatively oriented and primarily to
serve employed persons in urban areas. Cost recovery is likely to cover a relatively small portion
of MOH expenditures, and MOH services wiUl need to be strengthened and made more efficient,
in part to provide the health services aspects of a social safety net during structural adjustment.
Therefore major state financing of health services will need to continue. Initial review of
available information regarding health sector expenditures indicates that a better financial
information system is needed, that there is relatively little relationship between budgets and
expenditures, and that investment and operational expenditures are skewed away from primary
health care and basic level services-and toward hospital services which are less cost-effective in
terms of improving health.
2.45   Through the proposed project and in the course of sector work and public expenditure
reviews, the Bank will support the implementation of the sector strategy, with a focus on: (a)
capacity building of the MOH; (b) support to service delivery; and (c) efficient use of the



resources allocated to the sector. Major donors inputs will be required to rehabilitate and
strengthen health services in Angola. Donor coordination w!ll be facilitated by a coherent and
comprehensive National Health Development Plan, along with the recently approved health sector
law and the development of policies, norms and standards and well-defined integrated health
service programs. A round table will be organized once an adequate National Health
Development Plan is available to provide a solid basis for the sector's rehabilitation and
development and for coordinated donor commitments. Such a resource mobilization effort assures
that the peace process would be satisfactorily implemented.
PART m - THIEPR.E
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The proposed project will address the key issues of MOH planning and management
capacity, the limited coverage and quality of health services, and the inadequacy of family
planning services and of AIDS control (Paras. 2.37 to 2.41). Its main goal is to assist GOA in
rapidly providing basic health services to the population. The project has two specific objectives:
(i) to strengthen MOH's capabilities in essential areas of health policy, heaith sector management
and public health; and (ii) to improve health care in selected regions, hrough the rehabilitation of
training and health facilities, including the improvement of service delivery. These objectives are
complementary to other donor-supported activities in the health, population and nutrition sectors.
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2   The proposed project has two components. The two components correspond to
recognized priorities in the sector. In addition, the implementation of activities in the Huila
province and Porto Amboim is feasible in the current economic and political context. The first
component will aim at strengthening Health Sector Policy and Management. It will include
support for health policy development and institutional strengthening of the MOH and provision
for preinvestment studies. The second component wil focus on selected programs. It will
include: (a) support for priority national programs currently underway including AIDS/STD
Control and Family Planning in Huila Province; (b) rehabilitation of selected health posts in the
region of Matala; (c) in Lubango City, relocation and upgrading of a Health Professional School,
rehabilitation of the health center and of two health posts (all attached to the School), and partial
rehabilitation of the pediatric center; and (d) in the city of Porto Amboim, rehabilitation of the
hospital, and two health posts. the Government has already put in place a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) within the MOH Planning Department and has appointed a Director
(Annex 3.1). The project is designed to be implemented over a five-year period starting in April
1993.-



- 16 -
(Component -) - Strengthening HeAth Sector Policy and Management (US$5.64 million)
3.3    MOH health policy formulation and health services programming and management need to
be strengthened (Para. 2.37). A draft Policy Statement and a draft Public Expenditures Note have
been prepared (Annexes 2.2 and 2.7) and discussed during project appraisal. The Government
will have also to define the role of demobilized personnel in the project. These Government
documents will be discussed and agreed upon during negotiations (Para. 5.2(a) and (c)). They
will be updated during the project implementation and reviewed during the project's mid-term
review. The project will assist MOH's Planning Department and MOH's Public Health and
Human Resources Departments in defining health pol!:ies and in managing the sector. In
addition, the project will include a provision of consultant services to conduct investment studies
on certain topics that wUI require more information during the implementation of the project, such
as Health sector Management, Human Resources development, MST/FP, health facilities
rehabilitation, and to collect information necessary for the preparation of a possible Second Health
Project. The project will finance 120 man-months of expert services in planning and management
for the MOH Planning, Public Health and Human Resources departments, 60 man-months of
expert services and 16 man-months of consultancies for the PIU, and a provision of 14 man-
months of consultancies for investment studies. Terms of Reference for long term technical
assistance agreed with the Government are proposed in Annex 3.2. The project will also fniance
computers, reproduction and audio-visual equipment and vehicles (US$300,000) for MOH and
PIU. In addition, the project will finance short term training for six senior staff in the fields of
Health Policy and Health Sector Management. The proposed Training Program is given in Annex
3.3. For negotiations the Government is expected to bring the revised Policy Statement and
Public Expenditures Note; the decrees for the creation of the PIU and the appointment of its staff;
and the short list of long term Technical Assistaace (Para. 5.1 (a), (b) and (c)).
(Component  - -qg upnort for Selected National Health
and Rehabilitation Programs (U '$15.7 million)
(a)   Support for Priority National Health Programs (US$1.4 million).
3.4   The MOH has embarked on several health programs co-financed with external donors.
Among the more important ongoing programs are the AIDS/STD Control Program (PNLS) and
the National Family Planning Program (NFPP) which are co-financed mainly by the Government,
SIDA, EEC and UNFPA. The go\ rnment, however, would like to increase the scope and the
impact of these programs (Paras. 2.40 and 2.41). The project will support these two programs by
providing training, information activities and equipment, according to the action and financing
plans proposed in Annex 3.4. The PNLS sub-component will be implemented by WHO and the
NFPP sub-component by UNFPA, who are already coordinating these activities. Implementation
agreements between the Government and these organizations will be prepared before negotiations
for the executdon of the programs financed by the credit. The credit will finance TA (17 man-
months), equipment (US$840,000) and training (US$150,000). As a condition of disbursement,
the Government will sign with WHO and UNFPA implementation agreements satisfactory to IDA
(Para. 5.4(a)).



- 17 -
(b)   Rehabilitation of selected Health Posts in the Province of Huila (US$.9 million).
3.5    Under this component, the project will upgrade/rehabilitate, furnish, equip and reorganize
about ten existing health posts in the municipio of Matala, province of Huila, that have been
damaged during the war. The municipio of Matala has been selected for its increasing population
density (including returning migrants), and because of the presence of dynamic NGO (Medicos
Sin Fronteras (MSF - Spain) involved in the rehabilitation of the Matala hospital. Due to the
evolving political, economical and social situation of the country, the selection of centers/posts for
rehabilitation will be done on an individual basis during project implementation. To ensure
adequat.e rehabilitation and functioning, the Government, due to its weak management capabilities
in remote areas, will subcontract the rehabilitation of the health posts and monitoring of their
functioning to M.S.F. - Spain. This NGO will proceed with the physical rehabilitation and
functioning by involving local communities. A Government/M.S.F. - Spain agreement is under
preparation which indicates respective Government and M.S.F. - Spain technical and financial
responsibilities and participation. The project will finance rehabilitation, including waste disposal,
sanitation and sanitary water supply, equipment and partial functioning of about ten posts for a
total amount estimated at US$900.000. Description of a standard Health Post is given in Annex
3.5. As a condition of disbumsen , the Government will sign an agreement/contract with MSF
satisfactory to IDA (Para. 5.4(b)).
(c)    Relocation and Upgrading of the Health Professional School and the Health Center and
the two Health Posts, and rehabilitation and eguipment for the Pediatric Center and the
existing Municipal Health Center, in Lubango (US$10.0 million).
3.6   The existing training facilities of nurses and health technicians for the Huila, Namibe,
Cunene and Kuando provinces are located in Lubango, province of Huila. They provide the
provinces with about 80 basic level nurses (of which 70% are female) per year, and about 55
technicians (of which 60% are female) per year. The two institutions are inefficient, and the
qualifications of the graduates of the health technician training program in particular do not
correspond to the real needs of the health facilities. The project will finance the construction,
equipment, organization and operation of a new training facility in the suburbs of Lubango which
is expected to accommodate 380 trainees. Boarding accommodations would be provided for 200
persons. The training programs will include a two year program for basic level nurses, a three
year program for medium level nurses, several one to two year programs for technicians in the
areas of health center or health services management, X-Ray, laboratory, stomatology, pharmacy,
nutrition and rehabilitation. In addition, the school will be designed so as to also provide a
number of short term upgrading/refresher courses and continuing education in the fields needed.
This facility will serve as a prototype for other similar institutions in the country. A new health
center will be built in the School's campus. It will provide the neighboring population with
primary health care and will serve as a training facility for the students. In addition, two healths
posts, Tioccho and Namambe, located in Lubango's suburb will be rehabilitated and will be used
as practice facilities for the school. The school wIll also include a health equipment maintenance
center which will serve the Huila province. The technical assistance for the School will be
provided through twinnmg contract with similar foreign institution. The project will finance
construction/rehabilitation (US$4.8 million), furnishing and equipment (US$1.1 million) and
Technical Assistance (114 man-months of consultancies) for the new school, the Health Center
and the two Health Posts attached. Health School Organizational Chart and Architectural
Program are given in Annex 3.6.



- 18-
3.7 The overcrowded Lubango Pediatric Center neads major building repairs such as roofing,
water and electricity supplies, and it lacks basic equipment. To make it able to work at full
capacity and to make it more efficient, the project will finance civil works and equipment, for the
laboratory in partieular. The existing Municipal Health Center in Lubango will be partially
rehabilitated and equipped. The total estimated amount for these rehabilitations is US$350,000.
(d)   Rehabilitation of Porto Amboim Hospital and two Health Posts (US$3.3 million)
3.8   The existing hospital of Porto Amboim, a city located 243 miles south of Luanda. This is
the only facility able to provide primary and secondary medical care to a population of about
120,000. At present, the hospital is lacking qualified staff, equipment as well as additional space.
The hospital will be rehabilitated, including adequate waste disposal, sanitation, water and
emergency power supply services, and furnished and equipped in order to accommodate 100 beds.
Basic services to be provided include: minor surgery, radiology, maternity and pediatrics, adult
medicine, laboratory, administrative, as well as basic supportive services. The existing Health
Posts in Pinda and km 42 are to be rebuilt and provided with adequate equipment, furniture, and
sanitation water. The supervision of the works, as well as the management of the three facilities
will be ensured by the Catholic Church, according to an Agreement being signed with the
Government which will indicate respective Government and Catholic Church technical and
financial responsibilities and participation. The medical staff will be provided by MOH, the
Catholic Church and other Technical Assistance, the recurrent costs by the Government, and
rehabilitation and equipment by the project. The project will include a provision of US$1.2
million for civil works, US$700,000 for equipment, and a provision of 250 man-months for
expert services and 16 man-months for training of hospital personnel. Description of hospital and
Health Posts rehabilitation, functioning and Architectural Program are given in Annex 3.7. As a
condition of disbursement, the Government will sign an agreement with the Catholic Church
satisfactory to IDA (Para. 5.3(b)); and will furnish IDA satisfactory evidences of land and
building ownership related to PIlU's building and all rehabilitations included in component 2
(Para. 5.4(c)).
C. PROJECT COSMS AND FINANCING PLAN
3.9   The project will be implemented over a five year period. Total costs for the proposed
project are estimated at US$22.2 million. Base costs are estimated at US$18.5 million and
contingencies have been esdmated at US$2.9 million. In addition, taxes and import duties amount
to US$500,000. Foreign exchange costs account for US$18.8 million (84 ircent of total project
costs) and local costs for US$3.4 million. Project costs by category of expenditure are
summarized in Table 3.1 below and details are provided in Annex 3.8. Civil works account for
33 percent of base costs, technical assistance and studies for 32 percent, and equipment and
materials for 17 percent. These costs are based on estimates provided by MOH with the
assistance from a consulting firm. The appraisal mission reviewed these costs in collaboration
with the entities who will be in charge of executing the various components. Due to exchange
rate uncertainties all costs have been estimated in dollars only.



-  9-
Table 3.1: Prolect Cost by Cateaorv of Exoenditure
_____________________Lca_orin                      Total    [  FOREIGN    BASE  COSTS
1. INVESTENWT COSTS              -
A. Eauipment, Vehicles  Nat.       72      3196    3269             93            17
B. Training and Seminars           66       758      823            92             4
C. Civil Works                    968      5486    6454             85            33
D. Tech. Assist. & Studies        792      5500    6293-            87            32
E. PPF                              0      1209 I  1209            100             6
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS    1899     16150 T 18048             89            93
11. RECJRRENT COSTS                                       _
A. Ov.rating Costs               1057       260    1317             20             7
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS    2956     16409   19365             85           100
Physical Contingencies } 196        1034    1231             84             6
Price Contingencies     293       1318    1660            82             8
TOTAL PROWECT COSTS    3445     162    z7                 84           115
Values scaled by 1000.0
3.10    Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent for
civil works and 5 percent for equipment, vehicles, food and materials. Price contingencies have
been calculated at 3.6 percent per year throughout project duration.
3.11   Estimates for civil works were prepared by MOH in collaboration with a consulting firm.
For new construction (Health Professional School of Lubango, the Campus Health Post, Pinda
and Km42 Health Posts, and the extension of the Porto Amboim Hospital) the cost of works was
estimated at US$700 per sq. m. The cost for rehabilitation of selected sites (such as the Thioco
Health center) was estimated at US$300 per sq. m. These relatively high costs are due to a
combination of factors: a distorted exchange rate, hig.h import content of construction materials
(about 50%), high proportion of foreign labor (50 percent on average in the large firms),
inadequate tendering procedures resulting in limited competition, and the Government's poor
payment record which has led contractors to inflate prices. However, due to the volume of civil
works under this project in addition to those anticipated under the IDA fi"anced First Education
Project among others, and th* ise of international bidding procedures is expected to increase
competition. IDA reviewed estmates for vehicles, equipment, materials and international
technical assistance which are based on estimates used in similar projects financed by other
donors. With regards to training, training abroad was estimated at US$40,000 per person/year
and for local training US$30 per day/person. Local salaries and operating expenses were
estimated using UNDP standards.



-20 -
3.12   Project costs by component are shown in Table 3.2 below. The institutioaal development
component for MOH accounts for 23 percent of base costs, and the National Health Programs
including: (i) AIIDS/PP accounts for 6 percent of base costs; (ii) the rehabilitation of the selected
health centers in the Huila Province for 4 percent of base costs; (iii) the rehabilitation and/or
construction of the Luibango health school and annexes for 45 percent; and (iv) the rehabilitation
of the Porto Amboim Hospital and health centers for 15 percent of base costs.
3.13     ustoms duties and taxes. All Items imported tor the purposes of executing this project
would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes, in line with the standard practice of the
Government, except for the local materials to be used for the construction and furnishing of health
centers, the Lubango Health School and the Porto Amboim Hospital and for small purchases
related to project operating costs. Of the estimated costs of construction and furnishing of the
above mentioned facilities, approximately US$500,000 represents customs duties and taxes.
During negotiations, the Government will be requested to give assurances that all items imported
for the project will be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes (Para. 5.2(d)).
Table 3.2: Cost Sumay
FOREIGN    BASE  I
___________ LOCAL    FOREIGN   TOTAL   EXCHANGE   COSTS
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT           1136      3377     4513           75     23
B. NA7L. HEALTH PROGRAMS
1. AIDS and FamilY Planning         151       1099     1249          88       6
2. Health Centers Huila              68        682      750           91      4
3. Lubango Health School            1041      7690     8731   _       88     45
4. Porto Amboim HospStal            560       2353     2913           81     15
Sub Total                              1820     11824    13644          87      70
C. PPF                                   0       1209     1209          100      6
TOIAL BASELINE COSTS    2956      16409    19365          85    100
Physical Contingencles     196       1034     1231          84       6
Price ContIngences  _   293       1318     1611          82       8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    3445      18762.   22207          84     115
Values scaled by 1000.0
3.14   Recuffent Coss  The recurrent cost implications of the proposed operation are mainly the
operating costs for the infrastructure being rehabilitated or built under the project. These costs
amount to US$300,000 per year. This represents and increase of about five percent over the
current public expenditure program for the Ministry of Health. Given the importance of these
health care facilities, it is also anticipated that other donors will also contribute to the financiag of
these and other recurrent costs upon project completion.



-21 -
3.15   Of the total project cost of US$22.2 million, IDA is expected to finance 89 percent of
total costs (US$19.9 million); the remainder will be financed by the government which is ex-
pected to fund 10 percent of all civil works, 80 percent of all operating costs and 5 percent of
training activities. Prior to credit effectiveness of the proposed credit, the Government will make
an initial deposit of the equivalent of US$200.000 in a project account opened in a commercial
Bank acceptable to IDA (Para. 5.3(c)).
Table 3.3: Financing Plan bv Disbursement Category
IDA         Government       Total        Poreign   Local
-                      Exchange  (Excl.
Amount   %   Amount   %    Amount   %                  TAM)
A. Equipment, Vehicles,
Purniture Supplies   3709  100        0      0     3709    17       3625       84
B. Civil Works          6892   90      766    10    7658    34          6498    1160
C. Training & Studies    929  100        0      0      929     4        854       75
D. Technical Assistance  6823   95     364      5     7188    32        6277     911
E. Operating Costs       299   20    1216    80    1515        7        299    1216
F. PPF                  1209  100        0      0     1209     5        1209       0
Total Disbursement  19861    9                    22207   100       18762    3445
D.  PROJECTIMPLEMTATION
Proiect Prenaration
3.16   The Health Project was identified in October 1990, pre-appraised in November 1991, and
appraised in April 1992. The project is now in its final preparatory stage. The working
documents prepared by the Government with assistance from a consulting firm funded under PPF
have been reviewed, completed and agreed upon with Government officials during appraisal. A
Public Expenditures Note and a Draft Policy Statement have been prepared and reviewed during
Appraisal (Annex 2.2 and 2.5). Preliminary drawings and bidding documents for construction,
rehabilitation and preliminary list of equipment, furniture and vehicles have also been prepared.
Technical assistance programs have been defined and detailed terms of reference have been
finalized (Annexes 3.1 and 3.2). Following the granting of a PPF advance, MOH is expected to
carry out the process of recruiting: (a) the long-term technical assistance; (b) an architectural firm
to prepare designs for the rehabilitation of the PIU's facility; and (c) constructioid firms- for the
rehabilitation of the PIU's building and for the housing of the technical assistance in Luanda.
Organization and Management
3.17 The proposed project will be implemented by the MOH through a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) (Annex 3. 1), which is part of the Planning Department. The PIU is under the direct
authority of the Ministry of Health, according to the Implementation Schedule by component



- 22 -
given in Annex 3.11. The PIU is headed by a full-time national director. The proposed staff: one
senior accountant and one junior, one engineer, one responsible for procurement, and support
staff will be supplemented by an international project advisor responsible for monitoring the
project implementation under the supervision of the Director. The PIU will be responsible ij
A&ia for: (i) coordination of project-related activities and distribution of project documentation
among all relevant MOH's Departments; (ii) overall coordination of project implementation; (iii)
compliance with monitoring and reporting requirements under the Project, including quarterly
progress reports and annual progress report, detailed costs and budgetary requirements for
project-supported activities to be carried out during the upcoming project year; (iv) interliaison
with governmental, international and private institutions, donor agencies active in the sector, and
the Association in order to facilitate project implementation.
3.18 Implementation of Proiect Components. Unler the coordination of the PIM, the
implementation responsibility of thle project components will be the following:
*     The Support to Health Policy Development and Institutional Strengthening and
Pre-Investment Studies component will be the responsibility of the Planning
Department of the MOH.
*     The Support for the Priority National Health Programs subcomponent will be
implemented by: (i) WHO for the AIDS program; and (ii) UNFPA for the Family
Planning program.
*     The Construction of the Health Professional School, the Health Center, the two
Health Posts attached and the Maintenance Center, the rehabilitation of Pediatric
Center and Municipal Health Center in Lubango will be implemented by the
Human Resources Department of the MOH in close collaboration with the
Provincial Health representative in Lubar,go. The technical assistance for the
School will be provided through contracts (twinning contract) with institutions
involved in health training (e.g. Public School of Health, School of Medecine,
University) and selected according to Bank procedures.
*     Rehabilitation of Health Centers and Posts in the Province of Huila will be
implemented by the NGO MSF - Spain in close collaboration with the Provincial
Health Representative in Lubango.
*     The Rehabilitation of Porto Amboim Hospital and two Health Posts will be
implemented by the NGO Catholic Church from Luanda which has already a
representation in Porto Amboim and is involved in the management of the hospital
in close collaboration with the Regional Health Representative in Porto-Amboim.
Involvement of agencies and NGO's which will be responsible for project implementation have
been defined in accordance with Bank policies: (a) NGO's MSF - Spain and the Catholic Church
are implementing projects of health infrastructre rehabilitation, training and management with the
government or other donors (e.g. EEC) in the same geographical area (Lubango and the south for
MSF - Spain and Porto Amboim for the Catholic Church. These two NGO's are already involved
in improvement and development of primary health care with population participation and limited
resources; (b) WHO and UNFPA are already implementing the National AIDS and Family
Planing programs, respectively; and (c) MOH Planning Department and the Human Resource
Division of Ministry of Health used to manage and follow up the implementation of programs
financed by other donors (Sweden, AfDB and EEC) including supervision of private sector
involved in construction and rehabilitation (architects, engineers and contractors) through the full



- 23 -
time appointed architect working in the Planning Agency. The Project Implementation Schedule
by category is shown in Table 3.4 below. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1998 and the credit closed by December 31, 1998.
Table 3.4: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Project Element  Pre-Project          Project Year                          Total
1      2       3      4       5              PaymentRemark
Loan Timing
Sign/Effec./Close     *       ***                           *#*
Civil Work
1.     Lubango
1.1    Construction                  2.7    2.7                            5.4 ICB
1.2    Rehabilitation                0.2    0.1                            0.3 LCB
2.     Huila Province Posts           0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1              0.5 LCB
... XXXX... XXXXL....XXXXX..... XXxx
3.     Porto Amboim                   0.4    1.0
.... 3rx =xxx
Goods
1.     Equipment                     0.2    2.1    0.3                      2.6 ICB
...xxxxD..    .... XXXX
2.     Furniure, Office Supplies  0.3    0.1         0.1                    0.7 Local
... X<XX ... 1Shopping
3.     Vehicles               0.3    0.1             0.1                    0.4 ICB
... xx   ...   .       .. xxx
Consultancies
1.     Archit. Design & Superv.      0.2    0.2                            0.4 Other
............   Ix x
2.     Tech. Assistance       1.4    1.5    1.4    1.9    0.7               6.8 Other
3.     Training/Seninars
3.1 Abroad                    0.4                                   0.4
3.2 LocaUly           0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1               0.5
...XXXX  ... .XD   ... XXXX  ... .X   ... XXX
Miscellaneous
1.     Operating Costa        0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3               1.5
2.     Refinancing PPP        1.2
TOTALS                        3.6    6.3    8.1    3.0    1.2               22.2
(Bank Financed)              (3.4)   (5.7)   (6.8)   (2.8)   (1.2)        (19.9)



- 24-
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.19  The PIU will monitor and evaluate project implementation (Annex 3.1) with the person
responsible for the execution of each component according to the proposed performance indicators
(Annex 3(a)). The PIU will have an overall view of problems and issues in project
implementation and be in position to recommend any corrective actions that maybe required. The
PIU will be in charge of preparing the quarterly reports mentioned above. These reports will be
presented to and approved by the Minister of health before being submitted to IDA. It was
agreed that a project performance review, including management, will be carried out annually
under terms of reference acceptable to IDA and that the review findings and recommendations
will be discussed with IDA no later than October 31 of each year of project implementation.
This will include review and updating of the Project Performance Key Indicators (Annex 3.9).
During negotiations, the Government will be requested to give assurance that, no later than July
31 of each year of project implementation, the PIU will make available to IDA the necessary
documents and evidence for a review of (i) project implementation; and (ii) the state of
mnaintenance of buildings constructed or rehabilitated with IDA credits (Para. 5.2(b)).
3.20  IDA will review project implementation progress according to the Supervision Summary
given in Annex 3.10. At mid-term, the Government and IDA will undertake a more comprehen-
sive and detailed evaluation of the progress of implementation and of the extent to which the
project is achieving its expected development impact. The evaluation will aim to check if: (a) the
activities mentioned in Annex 3.9 have been completed; (b) the project designed at appraisal
needs to be adjusted in accordance with the implementation experience; (c) the terms of reference
for the technical assistance have been respected; (d) the disponibility of counterpart funds; and (e)
if the staffing of the project unit is satisfactory to allow an adequate implementation and in
particular, that the project coordinator position is filled with an experienced and qualified person.
The Government will review and finalize the Health Policy Statement and the Health Public
Expenditures Note. In view of the nature of this review and as an input to it, an evaluation will
be undertaken by independent outside consultants. During negotiations, the Government will be
requested to give assurance that the Policy Statement and the Public Expenditures Note will be
reviewed and updated during project implementation, and finalized during the mid-term review of
the project (Para. 5.2(a)).
Project Sustainability
3.21   The proposed project will lay the groundwork for the sustainabiity of GOA's health
system. Preinvestment studies in the areas of health sector management, human resources
development, health financing STDs/FP and health facilities rehabilitation will be the basis for the
development and expansion of the sector and the preparation of futher operations. The
operational sustainability of the project will be achieved by relying on experienced NGOs to
implement the various project components. The sustainability of each of the project components
will be reviewed during the mid-term review.



-25 -
P-rocuremen
3.22            Procurement arrangements are summarized in table 3.4 below
TABLE 3.5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(Total Costs of Proposed Program Components Including Contingencies)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                          'Cs          LCB       OTHER       N.B.F.   TOTAL COSTS
1.   Works                                                                                         |
1.1  Construction                        6.2          .                     0.5a        6.7
t6.2)                                         (6.2)
1.1  Rehabilitation                                  0.8                    0.1b        0.9
(0.8)                              (0.8)
2.   Goods
2.1  Equipments/VehfcLes                 3.0                     0.7d                   3.7
(3.0)                  (0.        _ _         (3.7)
3.    Consuttancies
3.1   Design/Supervision                              _           0.3         ---        0.3
__________ __________ __________    ________      -0 3                   (0.3)
3.2   Technical Assistance/                           .           7.7       _           7.7
Training/Studies                                          (7.4)                   (7.4)
i)  Technical Assistance                                   6.0
if)  Training Studies                                      0.8
iii) NGOsB                                                 0.3
(servfces:0.1/T.A:0.5)         _                           0.6
4.    Niscellaneous
.4.1   Refinancing PPF                      --- _     --           1.2        ---         1.2
_____ _____ _____ _____ _____ __   __ _____ _   ___ _____ (1.2)         (1.2)
4.2   Operating Costs                      ...       ...          0.3       1.4c         1.7
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ____ ____ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __0_ _3__ (0.3)
9.2        0.8        9.5         2.0        22.2
TOTAL                     (9.2)      (0.8)       (9.2)                  (19.9)
Note:   Figures In parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
N.B.F.: not financed by IDA
(a)     financed by Government
(b)     financed by Goverrment
(c)     financed by Government
td)     international or local shopping



- 26 -
3.23  Civil works. Civil works contracts will be awarded following competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement:
*     International competitive bidding (ICB): civil works in Lubango (construction: the
Health Professional School, one health center and the maintenance center), and the
rehabilitation of the hospital of Porto Amboim and two health posts will be
awarded following international competitive bidding (totaling about US$6.2
million). In comparing the bids to be procured through ICB, domestic contractors
would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5%. Architectural designs and
construction plans for the construction and/or rehabilitation of these facilities
would be drawn up by qualified architectural/engineering consultants, who would
also design the primary health care facilities.
*     Local Competitive Bidding (LCB): refurbishment of existing buildings (the
rehabilitation of about 10 healths posts in Huila Province, the rehabilitation of the
pediatric center and the municipal health center in Lubango, will be awarded
following local competitive bidding (totaling about US$800,000). Tenders would
be advertised locally, bidders would be given minimum 45 days for submission of
bids, evaluation criteria would be specified, all bids would be opened in presence
of bidder's representatives, no preference margin would be allowed to national
contractors, eligible foreign contractor would be allowed to participate in the
bidding, and standard bidding documents would be reviewed and approved by
IDA prior to advertising.
*     Selected NGO's will be responsible for the implementation of the sub-components
Porto Amboim (hospital and two health posts), and the rehabilitation of about ten
health posts in Huila Province, municipio of Matala.
3.24  G       Goods financed under the project will include vehicles, furniture, medical
equipment, and other equipment and materials. Except as provided below, goods would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). When ICB procedures are
used, a preferential margin of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the
c.i.f. prices of competing goods would be given to domestic manufacturers in accordance with
IDA Guidelines. Contracts for goods procured through ICB would amount US$3.0 million, repre-
senting about 81% of the total value of goods financed by IDA. The remaining 19% of the total
value of goods, mainly supplies and vehicles for the various components, which cannot be
grouped into bids packages of at least US$25.000 equivalent, up to an aggregate limit of
US$700,000, would be procured through international or local shopping on the basis of price
quotations from at least three suppliers.
3.25  Technical Assistance. Technical Assistance will be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executive Agency". Consultancies services
financed by IDA will total about 1133 man-months, of which about 334 man-months would be for
locally-recruited specialists whenever the expertise required exists in Angola and whenever there
would be no particular advantage to resort to the more costly use of international specialists.
Details on consultancies are given in Annex 3.2.



-27 -
3.26 Bank Review Requirements. Working drawings, draft tender documents, master lists of:
furniture, equipment, supplies, and vehicles, will be reviewed by IDA. IDA review of tender
documents prior to award will be required only for contracts above US$200,000 equivalent for
civil works, and US$25,000 equivalent for goods. All other contracts will be subject to selective
post award review by IDA. IDA will organize a project launching workshop when the Credit is
effective and will prepare an implementation book including IDA's standard bidding documents
for goods and works and IDA's standard letters of invitation for consultants, for the use of the
PIU and NGOs (Para. 5.2(e)).
isbursemen
3.27   The proposed IDA credit of SDR 14.9 (US$19.9 million) will be disbursed in accordance
with Table 3.6 below.
Table 3.6: Disbursement Catefories
US$million         Percentage
Civil Works                                      6.0                90
Equipment, vehicles, furniture, materials,       3.2                100
pharmaceutical supplies
Training, studies, technical assistance, and     7.2                95
audits
Incremental operating costs                      0.3                20
PPF                                              1.2                100
Non-allocated                                    2.0
TOTAL                           19.9
3.28   Contracts for goods and services or single purchases of less than US$20,000, all operating
costs will be submitted against statements of expenditure (SOE). All disbursements will be fully
documented in a manner acceptable to IDA. The project implementation unit within the MOH
will be responsible for monitoring disbursements. The SOEs and all records such as contracts,
orders, invoices, and payroil vouchers will be retained by this unit for inspection by supervision
missions and reviewed by the annual audit. The project advisor will be responsible for designing
this system and training a national staff to undertake this task. The Project Director will be the
primary liaisoh person between IDA and the borrower for all disbursement issues pertaining to the
project.- It is expected that the closing date of the credit will be December 31, 1998 in
accordance with the standard disbursement table (Annex 3.11).
3.29   To ensure that funds for this project are readily available and to facilitate disbursement an
initial deposit in the Special Account of US$200,000 will be advanced from the IDA credit.



- 28 -
These funds will be deposited in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The funds in this special
account will be managed by the project coordinating unit and all documentation pertinent to this
account will be maintained in a manner acceptable to IDA for inspection during regular
supervision missions. The project director will be responsible for disbursements during project
implementation and will provide quarterly statements to IDA and will be responsible for
submitting applications for the replenishment of this account.
Accounting. Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
3.30    The PIU will establish and maintain separate accounts by project component and will be
responsible for their consolidation and submittance to IDA in a timely fashion. Such accounts
shall be maintained in accordance with sound and locally recognized accounting principles and
practices satisfactory to the Bank. The PIU will submit quarterly and annual financial statements
to the IDA. An auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to the Bank on such statements will be
provided within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The auditor' report will include a
statement and a management letter on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and
internal controls, the reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements,
and compliance with financial covenants. The foregoing accounting, financial reporting, and
auditing arrangements should provide adequacy and timely information to the Bank for supervi-
sion of the project.
PART IV - PROJECT BENEFITS AND MIKS
A.    BE{EfITS
4.1   The main benefits of the project include: (i) improvement of MOH's policy making and
managerial capabilities that would contribute to a better planned and more focused development of
the health sector; (ii) contribution to the establishment of an effective and sustainable health care
system geared towards providing basic health care to the majority of the population; (iii)
improvement of human resource qualifications needed to provide quality health services; (iv)
reinforcement of the efficiency and management of current expenditures as well as the relevance
of investment expenditures within the sector and relative to the macro-economic framework; (v)
increased health care coverage in the region which will benefit from project support; and (vi)
expansion of the AIDS and Family Planning programs.
B.    RISKS
4.2    The main risks of this project are: (i) the weakness of MOH in planning and management
and the scarcity of qualified personnel with experience in IVA's implementation and procurement
procedures; (ii) the difficulties related to the execution of works and delivery of equipment in
remote areas because of a weak local administration; and (iii) the political uncertainty. In order
to minimize the first risk, the project will strengthen MOH's planning, programming and
implementation capacities through human resources rationalization and training and the provision
of equipment to the central as well as peripheral levels. In addition, a project implementation unit
staffed with technical assistance experienced in IDA's procurement procedures will provide
management training to nationals. Regarding the second risk, the project will rely on NGOs that
are experienced in implementing projects in remote areas such as the Catholic Church, and MSF -



-29 -
Spain to undertake the various activities and provide them with the necessary funding for
equipment, training and technical assistance. The third risk should be minimized by the facts that
the two main political parties (MPLA and UN1TA) agree on the need for improving health care
and that the project components are not sensitive to policy changes.
PART V - AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Prior to negotiations
5.1   The Government is expected to bring for negotiations:
(a)   the revised Policy Statement and Public Expenditures Note discussed during
appraisal (Para. 3.3);
(b)   the decrees for the creation of the PIU within the MOH Planning Department and
the appointment of its staff including a director, two accountants, one engineer,
one procurement specialist, and support staff (Para. 3.3); and
(c)   the short list of long term Technical Assistance related to component 1 in health
sector planning, health sector management, and project management (Para. 3.3);
B.    During ne&otiations
5.2   The Government will have to give assurances that:
(a)   the Policy Statement and the Public Expenditures Note will be reviewed and
updated during project implementation, and finalized during the mid-term review
of the project (Para. 3.20);
(b)    not later than July 31 of each year of project implementation, the PIU will make
available to IDA the necessary documents and evidence for a review of (i) project
implementation, and (ii) the state of maintenance of buildings constructed or
rehabilitated with IDA credits (Para. 3.19);
(c)    not later than June 30, 1993, MOH will furnish to IDA a document defining the
role of army health personnel in the project (Para. 3.3);
(d)    all items imported for the project will be exempt from direct customs duties and
taxes (Para. 3.13); and
(e)   IDA's standard bidding documents for goods and works and the IDA's standard
biddign documents for goods and works and IDA's standard letter of invitation for
consultants will be used by PIU and NGOS for project implementation (Para.
3.26).



- 30 -
C.    Conditions of effectiveness
5.3          The Government will: make an initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent in the
project account opened in a commercial Bank acceptable to IDA (Para. 3.15).
D.    Conditions of disbursement
5.4   (a)   sign implementation agreements satisfactory to IDA with WHO and UNFPA on
their contribution to the project (Para. 3.4);
(b)   sign implementation agreements/satisfactory to IDA with MSF - Spain and the
Catholic Church for the implementation of components 2.b and 2.d, respectively
(Paras. 3.5 and 3.8); and
(c)   furnish to IDA satisfactory evidence of land and huilding ownership related to the
PIU's building and all rehabilitations included in component 2 (Paras. 3.5 to 3.8).
E.    Recommendation
5.5   Subject to the agreements and conditions set forth in Paras 5.1 to 5.3 above, the project is
suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$19.9 million equivalent to the People's Republic of
Angola.



ANNEXES
p1



ANNEX-
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
Basic Data Sheet and Comparative Indicatg=
GENERAL
GNP per capita (1992)                                                       US$720
Land area                                                          1,247 million km2
Population density                                                           8/nm2
Population growth rate                                                       2.9%*
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                                                47*
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                                19*
Maternal mortality (estimated in urban areas) (per 100,000 live births)       700*
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                               172
Life expectancy at birth (both sexes)                                          45*
Total fertility level                                                          6.5*
Health Personnel Ratio
Physicians                                                        1/15,400 inhabitants
Registered nurses                                                  1/3,675 inhabitants
*: World Bank Development Report, 1991.



ANNEX-1
Page 2 of 2
Comparative Sociocconomic Indicators
ANGOLA      COTE    KENYA   NIGERIA   SUB-SAHARAN
D'IVOIRE                           AFRICA
TOTAL POPULATION (MILLION)                10.0       11.7      23.5       113.8            481
URBAN POPULATION (%)                        37         48        23         35             33.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE                            47         S0        46         47             46.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE                            19         14 _      10         15             15.5
AVERAGE ANNUAL GROWTH
POPULATION (1980 1989)                     2.8        4.1       3.9        3.4              3.7
TOTAL FERTILITY RATE                       6.5        7.3       6.7         6.5            6.59
INFANT MORTALITY RATE                      132         92        68        100            106.9
LIE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH                     45         53        59         51             51.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                15,400          -    10,150       6,440                |
POPULATION PER NURSE                     1,020          -         -        900
DAILY PER CAPITA CALORIES
SUPPLY                                   1,725      2,365      1,973      2,039 _
ADULT ILLITERACY RATE (%)                   59         57        41         58             53.4
PER CAPITA INCOME                          720        790       360        250             340
AVERAGE GROWTH GDP 19 -19 (%)                         0.8       2.0         0.2
HEALTH EXPENDITURE AS % OF
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE                                6.3                  6.1         0.8             3.5
Source: World Development Report, 1991.



|     I N IT
|VC-IISTER(S)|
F~~~ ~~~ CoslaieConiN inister (s)  
Minister's Office    |            Office of international
Re(ations
Planning Unational Institute of
Pubific Health
LalUnit       l              ationa  lnsrpectort |
|            |           |         ~~~~~~ ~       ~~Heatth  
National Directorste       National Directorate        National Directorate          National Directorate       National Directorate           Nationat Dir. of
of Public Health         for Endeminc Controt              for Drugs                   of Equipment            of Human Resources         Admin., Ngmt. & Budget
DEPARTMENTS                DEPARTMENTS                 DEPARTMENTS                   DEPARTMENTS                DEPARTMENTS                   DEPARTMENTS
9   H"iene  |.  q    Zalario                      Y Pro~duct ion~      N|edical and    W           [  Lower Level    F         |       Finance
   pdmology   |                                                              Surgery Equipmn  { "t          Technician
_ Tripanossomiasis       _vDistribution                         E                        d                         Properties
q    Primary Care   |                                  ILavatory Equipment F           H~~~~~~~~~TecWhni'cita'nVse
s  9    Tubercutosis   |  q Nationat Warehouse|                                                          |      Suppties
-4Hospial Servces I  I    Leprosy       1       *.                           Itnstatlation and                   Forc
Maintenance of              Labor Force              [IIr                .
_  |   EquipPent                   U    o         Ls
-4 OthPr Endemic&                                                                                t
IDiseases        |                                                                Wr  and Satary  k
|1 Meia4nd    F            raization |
Surger Supies 
|PROVlINCIAL|
|DELEGATIONS|
i.Dfrec. of P. Hlth      fPoicat Dfrec. ofl            Provinicial Direct. |        Provincial Direc. of|                     
| &Endemic Diess|             rg  & Equipment  |       |of Huma  Reores|              Management & Budget |||uicipal Detegatin    
|Provimciat Unit of| 
IPtaming & Statistis CSE



ANNE!X 2.2
Page 1 of 5
HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING
PUBLIC EXPENDIrURES ON HEALTH
Table PER 1
The Health Budoet as a Share of
Goverruent Budoet
(millions NKZ)
.. ... .... .......... ..................... ........ .................. 
Year        Budget         Health Budget  Health Budget
(Million NKZ)    (Million NKZ)  as X of Fiscal
Budget
. ... .... .... .... ...... ....... ...... ........
1985        89.160            5,800              6.5
1986       108,000            6,700              6.2
1987        93,400            6,000              6,4
1988        95,586            6,000              6,3
1989         n.a.             6,304              n.a.
Source: Departamento de Estatfstica do Ministdrio do Saiide
1..             Nao se conhecendo as Contas Publicas, esta informaqao nao nos da mais que uma ideia
vaga sobre as intencoes do Estado quanto A SaOde. Ha razoes para se pensar que a realidade seja um
pouco diferente. A taxa de execuqao do Orsamento pode nao coincidir com as inten9oes de despesa
do inrcio do ano. Na verdade 6 isso o que se passa, tal como nos mostra o Quadro PER 2 que usa
informa$ao publicada pelo Departamento de Planificaqao sobre uma parts identificada dos gastos (Table
PER 2).
Table PER 2
Accontlishment Rates of MON Budact
(Millions NKCZ)
.....................  ---------------------------------------.... .......... .......... ........................
1989        1990
Initial Budget                           6,304        6,644
Budget Expenditures Recorded             2,563        3,334
Pecord. Rate (%)                          40.7         50.2
Acconplishment Rate of record. expend.(M)
.Central                           85           78.3
.Regional                          85           72.0
.Weighted average                  85           74.0
Source: Departamento de Planificacao, ISAtL'
IL.             Devido ao caracter incompleto desta informagao, nao 6 possrvel obtsr o quadro geral
das despesas pdblicas em Sadide, em Angola. No Quadro PER 3 (Table PER 3) tentimos identificar a
estrutura dos gastos a partir da despesa registada e publicada.



ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 5
Table PER 3
Identified Exoenditures of the MON
Recurrent and Cioltal
(Millions NKZ)
. ... .... .... .... .. . . . ... .. . . .. .. . .  . . ..  . .. .
Expenditure                      1989                1990
Value         X        Value          X
Personnet               962.9         37.4    2,"43.8         63.0
Goods                   69.9           2.7       129.9         3.4
Pharmaceuticals         909.9         35.3       777.0        20.1
Services               320.0           12.4      335.6         8.7
External Aid           219.5           8.5       128.8         3.3
Other                   32.7            1.0       33.2           .9
Investments             44.6           1.7        25.5          .7
TOTAL                2,573.2                   3,873.8
Initial Budget       6,304.0                   6,644.0
. ..  .. . . . . .  .. . . . . . . . . .....   ... . . . . . . . .
Source: Retat6rio do Ptano de Recupere;ao Econdmica, 1990
III..           Os movimentos entre um  ano o outro sao tao erraticos que nao permitem  extrair
conclusoes. Mas uma vez que os medicamentos tem um processo de financiamento separado, 6
possrvel observar a sua importAncia relativa nos gastos p(iblicos totais (Table PER 4).
Table PER 4
Exoenditure on Pharmaceuticals and other
Medical Goods (Millions NKZ). in A of MON Exoenditures
Year   Total MON    Level of       Total MON    Pharmaceut.     X
Budget    Accomplish.  Accomplish.
1986   223,333         80(b)       178,666         8,067        4.5
1987   200,000         80(b)       160,000        14,553        9.1
1988   200,000         80(b)       160,000        29,225       18.3
1989   210,133         85Cc)       178,613        30,366       17.0
1990   221,467         74(c)       163,885        25,700       15.8
1991    170,459(a)     90(b)       153,413        23,okS6      15.3
Source: Relat6rio do Plano de Recuperas;ao Econdmica, 1989 e 1990
(a) Initial value converted to 1 USS = 180 NKZ
Cb) Estimates to be confirmed
Cc) Estimates based an 50 of expenditures
IV..            Os gastos em medicamentos, de acordo com estes dados, apresentam uma tendencia
crescento entre 1986 e 1988; depois descem em  valores absolutos e relativos para se fixarem em
pouco mais de 15% em 1990 e 1981, aposar da significativa redugao dos gastos pdblicos observada
neste (Itimo ano.
V..             Estes dados contradizem uma boa parte da informaQao financeira que tem circulado nos
relat6rios de agencias intemacionais e doadores, onde 6 comum  afirmar-se que os medicamentos
consomem mais de um tergo do Orgamento do Estado Angolano para a Sadde.
VI..              i importante procurar conhecer-se a evolugao dos gastos em investimento ao longo dos
2ltimos anos. 0 Quadro PER 5 (Table PER 51 procura identificar esses encargos.



ANNEX= 2.2
Page 3 of 5
Table PER 5
Caiital Expenditure. National and Foreifn Aid
(Millions NKZ)
. _, ...... ................... .........................................
Year              National          Foreign          Total
Contribution          Aid
.......................... .......................................................................................... .. ....
1987                 59.3              (a)             n.a.
1988                 83.5              (a)             n.a.
1989                 39.9             140.4(a)         180.3
1990                114.9             282.7            397.6
1991(b)             149.8             582.5            732.4
1992(c)              40.9           3,627.6          3,668.5
Source: Relat6rios do Ptano de Recupera;ao Econ6mica, 1989 e 1990
(a) Amount spent up to 1989
(b) At 1990 prices, on the basis of 1 USS = 180 NKZ
(c) At 1990 prices, on the basis of 1 US$ = 550 NKZ
vII..            Nesta serie hi duas situagoes completamente distintas: ate 1989 e apds esse ano. Ate
1989, os recursos nacionais para investimento mostram  um  comportamento erritico, com  pouca
utilizagao de ajuda extema. Apds 1990, inclusivi, a ajuda externa passa a ser cada vez mais
importante, duplicando de valor em NKZ constantes, nesse ano e no seguinte, e crescendo ainda mais
fortemente para 1992 (cerca de seis vezes mais).
VIII..          Os projectos para 1992 sao, de resto, em ndmero surpreendentemente elevado, embora
de pequeno montante medio (Table PER 6).
Table PER 6
Investment Effort in 1992. ComDared
to the Former Trend
(Millions NKZ)
..... ........ _....... .............. ..... ........._.....
Initial/Final         Number of       Total      Average
Year              Projects        Cost         Cost
85/92                 1           3,778.3     3,778.3
88/92                 3           2,872       0,957
89/92                 8          85,108.5    10,638.5
90/92                 4           4,007.9     1,001.9
91/92                 3           1,627.7     0,543
92/92                29          19,898.5     0.d86
-- -- --   .   _   _  - -- -- _   _  _ - -- --   .   _ -- -    --
IX.             A actual poliftica de sadde de Angola pode ser identificada atraves de duas fontes de
informagao financeira: o Orgamento de 1991, na sua dItima versao e a analise dos investimentos
segundo a origem do financiamento e a sua utilizaVao.
X..              Quanto ao Orgamento para 1991, utilizando a classificagao ji atras explicitada,
resumimo-lo no Quadro PER 7 (Table PER 7).



ANNEX 2.2
Page 4 of S
Table PER 7
Minfstry of Health 1991 Buedget
(Millions NKZ)
I USS * 150 NKZ
Nature                      Amount          X
Personnel                   14,968.7        48.8
Goods                        2,369.5         7.7
Pharmaceuticals              4,221.9        13.8
Services                     2,298.6         7.5
External Aid                 2,429.4         7.9
Investments                  4,394.3        14.3
X0,682.5       100.0
.-.---.--.......-..-.-.-..---.-..---..--..-------
Source: Ministry of Finances, Budget 1991
Xl..            Trata-se de uma distribuihao muito proxima da observada em parses industrializados,
com os medicamentos ocupando uma posicao importante, mas nao dominante, no total dos gastos.
Os encargos com pessoal parecem elevados por standards africanos, mas 6 provavel que ji so estejam
a fazer sentir as incidOncias financeiras da monetarizacao da economia, com os salarios a aproximarem-
so de valores reais, devido ao desaparecimento ou regressao di remuneragoes indirectas. Quanto aos
investimentos, o valor observado da conta de uma assinalivel intencao de modernizaiao do parque de
equipamentos de satde, como o quadro PER 5 jd mostrava.
XII..           Quanto A distribuicao dos investimentos segundo a fonte e a utiliza9ao, observamos
no Quadro PER 8 (Table PER 8) o seguinte:
Table PER 8
Existins External Aid Drograms
bv Source and Utilization
(Millions NKZ)
I USS u 550 NKZta)
Level of Care    Donations   Extern Financ. Nat. Budaet    Total     X
PHC                ---         5,335.3        963.0      6,298.3   5.8
Secondary Care                                          21,805.4  20.0
Hospitals      6,325.0      4,714.1        850.8
.Naternities    7,621.2      1,925.4        368.9
Tertiary Care                                           31,014.3  28.5
.Hospitals     16,830.1      5,757.4        580.8
.Laboratories   1,997.8        973.9         65.2
.Physical Thor.  ---         4,067.3        741.B
Training            --           623.3          3.3        626.6    .6
Drug Adcin.         ---       47,546.3         82.7     47,629.0  43.8
Instit. Devlp.    1,078.0        350.6          4.0      1,432.6   1.3
_ ......  ... .... ... .... ..............
TOTAL            33,852.1     71,293.6       3,660.5   108,806.2 100.0
X                  31,1         65.5           3.4     100.0
-- -- - . .. . . . . . .. . . . . ............................  _ .....
Source: Ninistry of Finances, Budget 1992
(a) NKZ value as scheduled to start at 28th Feb. 1992



ANNEX 2.2
Page S of 5
XiII..       0 investimento na Sadde esta hoje pesadamente dependente da ajuda externa (96.6%),
quer sob a forma de doacgoes (31.1%), quer sob a forma de emprestimos a longo prazo (65.5%). A
parte mais volumosa, 48.3%, concentra-se no sector dos medicamentos, devido ao projecto de
medicamentos essenciais, financiado polo BAD/FAD o B6lgica, no valor total de quase 103 milhoss de
USS. 0 projecto de reabilitagao do Hospital Americo Boavida, financiado pela CEE, 6 o segundo malor,
com um custo de quase 23 milhoes de USS.
XIV..        Para Cuidados de Sadde Primarios estao destinados apenas 6% dos investimentos; 20%
irao para o nrvel secundSrio -hospitais municipais e distritais- e 29% para o nIvel terciario. Ha uma
vistvel concentragao do esforgo de reabilita9ao nos hospitais municipais, distritais e provinciais, alguns
deles severamente atingidos por destruigoes derivadas do recente conflito armado. Todavia, pouco esta
a ser investido em estabelecimentos de ensino (0.6%).



AMMX[2.1
CARE EAM=               ~~~~~~~~Page I of I
4.4. Infraestruturas sanitArias
- IU      -    o-- - -.                -- r            ,^ *-.X - - r-- .4J i  .- .1  
recentes recolhidos pelo Gabinete do Plano do Minist6rio da Saude.
Embora   represente  o conjunto *de todos os hospitais  nacionais,
provinciais e municipais, de modo a permitir separar as unidades
sanitarias do nivel primArio, ele nao distingue o nmuero de hospitais
-.aeiorns~s f'Q   d  ;-. r*^--_       r_:- ',  : ':. _..';-_  '__* _ 
hospitais municipais (223).
Com efeito, alguns municipios sao dotados de hospitais com pouco
mais de 40 camas e capacidade de internamento nos serviQos de medicina
geral, pediatria, cirurgia e obstetricia. Os hospitais provinciais te8m
ndmero variavel de camas (entre 200 e 1000) e sao dotados praticamente
de todos os servi9os clinicos, sendo alguns destes hospitais
pertencentes a instituiqBes religiosas (Chiulo e Caluquembe) ou a
grandes empresas (Endiama, Gamek, Fina, Elf).
UNIDADES SANITARIAS E CAMAS HOSPITALARES
Angola 1990
PROVINCIA   HOSPI  CENTROS   POSTOS   CAMAS   CAMAS  / 1000
I TAIS   DE SAUDE!DE SAUDE              HABITANTES
BENGO         1        18       195        306       1,9
BENGUELA      3        18       250      1 842       3,0
BIE           4         8         92       853       0,8
CABINDA       1         9        127       240       1,6
HUAMBO        6        13         27     1 096       O,8
HUILA         6        21        106       970       1,2
K.KUBANGO     1         6         35       136       1,1
K. NORTE      2         4         16       354       1,0
K. SUL        5        11        133       798       1,3
KUNENE        1         6         19       391       1,7
LUANDA        7        25        164     2'400       1,6
L. NORTE      5         3         11       997      3,5
LUNDA SUL     1         5        100       188       1,2
MALANGE       3        13        104       263       0,3
MOXICO        1         8         79       238       0,8
NAMIBE         1        4         49       331       3,1
UIGE          6        13        131       437       0,6
ZAIRE         2         4         47        79       0,5
TOTAL        56       189    .1 685    11 919        1,2
(a) - Hospitais nacionais, provinciais e/ou municipais
Foote: blat6?i  de execuqio do Plano de lecupera;io Ecooeica das Delegaqes Provincinis de Saude, 19 sesestre de 1990.



Recursos humanos
Pagel
O quadro do Pessoal da Saude representado na pagina 22
r-! *f^men te q it9n  I^tl timp Fe%rt- ron. tn+-rR,A ^ rl n4oii.r-es am
Luanda (36 % do total) e de pessoal paramedico (23 % do total).
O ndrmiero total de medicos registado em 1990 (631) 6 bastante
inferior ao que era indicado pelo Departamento de Estatistica do
MinijtArin Ha SAtIP refprpnt.A A 19RR (738). Nesta data o valor
medio da rele-sao habitanites/medico era de 12.850 contra 15.400
calculado em 1990. Com a saida massiva de m6dicos cubanos, estes
valores tendem a assumir um caracter critico, sobretudo em certas
especialidades clinicas como cirurgia, obstetricia e pediatria.
* ;: . : '
Formaqao
Devem ser realtados alguns factos decisivos da politica do
Minist6rio da Saude em materia de forma9ao, como por exemplo:
*    Extensao  dos  cursos  de  enfermagem  basica  a  todas  as
provincias do pais;
* i    Criaqao dos Institutos Medios de Sadde;
-    Criaglo do Instituto Superior de Enfermagem;
*    Reformulaqao progressiva dos programas de estudos;
-    Invescimento na formaq&o de profissionais para a docencia
do ensino medio e superior de enfermagem e farmacia;
A formagao do pessoal da saude 6 repartida pelas seguintes
escolas:
1 Faculdade de Medicina (em Luanda com um anexo em
Huambo)
...- 1 Instituto Superior de Enfermagem em Luanda
-    7  Institutos  Medios  de  Saude  para  formaqao  ce
enfermeiros de nivel m6dio e de outros tecnicos de
primeiro nivel em Luanda, Huambo, Huila, Benguela,
Malanje, Cabinda e Bi6.
-    21 escolas t4cnicas de base onde sao preparados os
enfermeiros e tecnicos auxilares de nivel basico.
Existe tamb4m um Colegio de P6s-Graduaqao criado em 1986 que
confere titulos e procede a p6s-graduaqao a medicos e a quadros
superiores de saude..
Em relaqSo ao ensino basico, existem duas escolas
administradas por congregag6es religiosas (Kaluquembe e Chiulo),
sob orientaqao metodoldgica da..D. N. de Recursos Humanos.  A
capacidade total das 21 escolas 6 de 1.770 estudantes, mas as
estatisticas revelam uma m6dia de 800 estudantes por ano. As



-  ~^NEX2.4
Page 2 of 4
condiSoes de admissio exigem 6 anos de escolaridade  e os cursos
duram 2 anos de teoria e 6 meses de praLtica.
No ensino m6dio os estudantes entram com o 8Q ano de escolaridade
e saem com a 12A classe. A formacao profissional especifica
abrange 2 anos para os alunos regulares e 1 ano para os alunos
que ja sao tecnicos basicos. A capacidade das 7 escolas medias
e de 1.705 alunos.
Os docentes para as disciplinas de forma;ao tecnica sao na
sua maioria tecnicos medios recem-formados, comr o estatuto de
monitores, portanto, sem experi&ncia profissional nem docente.
Para minimizar este inconveniente, os mesmos sao submetidos a
cursos de aperfeiqoamento.
PESSOAL DE SAUDE
Angola 1990
PROVINCIA        I MEDICOS IPARAMEDICOS   PROMOTORES POPLULACAO/
_  i      I   (*)       t DE SAUDE  :MEDICO(**)
BENGO                   11        183           150      ! 16 000
BENGUELA                48        815   .       315      i 33 000
BIE                     16        359           279      j 66 800
CABINDA                 26        398           180         5 800
HUAMBO                  31        653           106        47 000
HUILA                  .54 -      393           250         15 400
KUANDO KUBANGO          11         62            44        11 500
KUNENE                   6        134           116        37 100
KWANZA NORTE           11-        282           160        33 000
KWANZA SUL             29         258           242        22 000
LUANDA                22'!     1.842             27      | 23 900    
LUNDA NORTE            15         291           224      j 18 900
LUNDA SUL                7        177           117      1 21 700
MALANGE                 18        396            88         47 500
MOXICO                  11        199           107        27 400
NAMIBE                  15        196            79.        7 100
U UIGE                   29        480            178        27 100
 ZAIRE                12         224            48         1 4000
Orgaos centrais         25        337
Unidades sanita-
rias de nivel          20.        125      |    _        I   _
nacional f**)                              I                          !
Instituicoes de
Ensino de nivel          9         84            _ -         _
nacional
TOTAL-            631      7 888       I 2 710       ; 15 400
(Z) - Todos os profissionais de saide formados, excepto Os
promotores de sadde..
(**) - Populacao de 1989..
(23) - Inclui apenas o Hospital Sanat6rio de Luanda, os
Hospitais Psiquiatricos de Belas e Samba e o Centro de
Medicina Fisica e Reabilitacao, na medida em que os
restantes hospitais nacionais servem principalimente a
provincia de Luanda.
::en:e- .e.ac ; ci ^PAvaliacia das Est:ategias de SpT ooo, [9565-l90



RECURSOS HUMANOS NO SECTOR DA SAUDE             Page 3 of 4
M6edicos afectos so Ministdrio da Sadde - 1988
Provincias        Nacionais    Estrangeiros    Total      Habit/
/Me'dico
7..
Bengo                  1             10           11      11 191
Benguela               9             51           60      10 108
Bie                    4             17           21      49 714
Cabinda                2             21           23       6 391
Huambo                 9             35           44      32 189
Huila                  8             40           48      17 048
Kuando-Kubango         4              5            9      13 956
Kwanza Norte           3             11           14      25 436
Kwanza Sul             5             12           17      37 018
,IKunene                3             3             6      36 633
Luanda               153            206          359       3 843
Lunda Norte            3              8           11      25 391
Lunda Sul              4              3            7      21 629
Malange                2             28           30      27 933
Moxico                 6              6           12      24 608
Namibe                 5             21           26       3 Q50
Urge                   4             26           30      25 370
Zaire                  4              6           10      15 650
TOTAL.               229......      509..        738      12 850
Foate: uIthrion ltatiatico nhal 118, GP, Ihiat6rio da Sadde, Luanda Set 8a
Enforueiros por nivel de forwa;io - 1988
Provincias          H6dios       Basicos        Total    Hab/enf
Bengo                 25             125          150     1 041
Benguela              74           1 036        1 110       546
Bid                   23             350          373     2 799
Cabinda               16             303          319       461
Huambo               257             576          836     1 694
Huila                 20             817          837       978
Kuando-Kubango                        40           40     8 140
Kwanza Norte          32             262          294     1 211
Kwanza Sul            17  '          268          285     2 208
Kunene                 6             128          134     1 640
Luanda *              99             301          400     3 450
Lunda Norte           44             188          232     1 204
Lunda Sul              6             144          150     1 009
Halange               33             360          397     2 123
Hoxico                               197          197     1 499
Namibe                 9             208          217       473
Uige                  26             457          483     1 576
Zaire                  6             207          213       735
TOTAL                693           5 970        6 663-    1 423
t -io inclui lospitais lacionis e livel Central
Foote: leitfrio lstatfstica Laua 1988i, CP, ialstirio da Saide, Luanda, Set 89



Page 4 or 4
Promotores de sau'de
1988
Provincias           Rurais    Promot.sadde      Total   Habitant/
Ocupacionais              /promotor
Bengo                   62           35              97     1 609
Benguela               202           67             269     2 255
Bi6                     94          129             223     4 682
Cabinda a)
Huambo a)
Huila                  130           57             187     4 376
Kuando-Kubango a)
iKwanza Norte           141            5             146     2 439
Kwanza-Sul-[.     .    231           47             278     2 264
lunene    .    .        71           45             116     1 895
Luanda :-               17           31              48    28 746
Lunda Norte             77          115             192     1 455
Lunda Sul:              80           20             100     1514
Malange                 71           32             103     8136
Moxico                  50           11              61     4 841
Namibe                  80          152             232       443
Uige                   235           66             301     2 529
Zaire                   61            8              69     2 268
TOTAL                1 602          820          2 422      3 915
a) - Dados Aio  disponiveis.  t-0 total uia in4U Cabinda. uasabo 0e  . lubango.
FoAte: lelat6rio Istatistico hual 1988, GP. Eiisterio di Sadde, Luanda, Set 89



ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 6
MOH STATEMENT ON ISSUES AND POLICY ACTIONS
IN THE HEALTH. POPULATION AND NUTRMTION SECTOR
(For Discussion at the Negotiations of the Health Project)
INTRODUCTION
The Government is the principal provider of "modern" health services in Angola.
Many health facilities were damaged or suffered from lack of maintenance and repair during the
prolonged war. In the aftermath of war, use of existing physical infrastructure and personnel remains
inefficient. Serious health and nutrition problems exist, and rapid population growth and insufficient
family planning services constitute a problem.
2.           Improving the PHN sector's effectiveness and efficiency requires:
e     emphasis on widespread access to essential health and family planning services of
good quality and acceptable to the people, including preventive services, cast-effective
services, and equitable access to services;
*     greatly strengthened planning and management capacity (including financial
management), and information, supervision/quality assurance, support and supply
systems;
*     improvements in the quantity, quality and distribution of the sector's human resources
(including major efforts in human resources planning and management, in addition to
training);
*     increased involvement of NGOs and of the private sector in service delivery and
support (in accordance with national norms and with quality control applied to both
MOH and other services);
*     increased involvement of communities in the planning and management of health
services (and of locally managed and used cost recovery);
*     phased restoration of physical infrastructure and equipment (especially in war-
damaged areas needing resettlement and economic re-activation), with provision for
effective maintenance and repair; and
*     prevention of major increases in the prevalence of HIV infection, which in the
absence of an effective prevention program will reach epidemic proportions within a
few years, kill at least tens of thousands of Angolans, and severely limit the ability of
the MOH to deal with both AIDS cases and other health problems.



ANNEX 2.5
Page 2 of 6
GENERAL MOH STRATEGIES AND INTERVENTIONS
3.           Accomplishing the above-mentioned changes will require implementation of several
strategies in the sector.
MOH action: Decentralization, possibly with regionalization, will be a key strategy in health and
other sectors. Integration, coordination and de-verticalization of programs, management and services
are also key strategies, and they will be central aspects of approaches to family planning and to
specific health problems such as AIDS and malaria.
4.           Preparation of a National Health Development Plan (NHDP) will be a major step in
rationalizing the sector and toward increasing its efficiency and effectiveness.
MOM action: The MOH will prepare, during implementation of the Health Project, a National
Health Development Program (NHDP) which will incorporate all of the above-mentioned elements
and approaches, set priorities, and define specific programs and interventions. It will provide a
calendar and framework for planning and action at the provincial and peripheral levels. In the context
of recently passed legislation regarding the haalth sector and of related implementation orders, the
NHDP will clarify that framework and provide plans for the private/NGO sectors' contributions and
collaboration. The NHDP will be closely linked to a Public Expenditure Program (PEP) for the PHN
sector, which will be part of a multisectoral national PEP being developed by the GOA.
5.           The GOA recognizes that the extent of health status improvements achieved also will
depend on parallel improvements in incomes, income distribution, water supply and sanitation, food
security, education, and transportation.
MOH action: The MOH will participate fully in efforts to improve coordination among sectors, in
order to increase both the contributions of other sectors to improved health, nutrition and family
planning and the contributions of improved health, nutrition and family planning services to other
sectors.
SUBSECTOR ISSUES AND MOH-PROPOSED ACTIONS
6.           In the paragraphs which follow, are summarized key subsector information and issues
which are of greatest concern in the PHN sector, along with actions which the MOH proposes to take
to improve upon the current situation.
HEALTH
7.           In December 1991 the GOA approved five important pieces of legislation on the
following matters: National Health System (Lei de Base do Sistema Nacional de Cuidados de Saude);
Private Practice Authorization (Regulamento do Exercicio da Medicina Privada); Public Medical
Practice in the NHS (Regulamento do Regime Especial de Carreiras Medicas do Servico Nacional de
Sadde); Pharmacy Ownership and Practice (Regulamento do Exercicio da Actividade Farmaceutica);



ANNEX 2.5
Page 3 of 6
and Private Health Services (Regulamento das Instituigoes Privadas de Assistencia
Medico-Sanitaria).1 The major and central action in this reform is the revocation of a former piece
of legislation (Decreto Lei no. 29/77, of March 27, 1977) abolishing all kinds of private practice in
health care. The formal justification for this important change is "the recognition of the important
role that doctors and private health services may accomplish in helping the State on the provision of
health care".
8.           The basic organizational concept in the new Angolan law is the separation of two
realities: the Health System and the National Health Service. Important health policy orientations are
presented in the new legislation, especially in the National Health System Law (Lei de Base). Those
orientations concern, for example, PHC, priority to vulnerable groups, and equitable access to
services. Financing health care is no longer to be an exclusive responsibility of the State: users may
be required to contribute to the cost of providing public services by paying "taxas moderadoras"
according to their economic capacity, and they should pay the cost of private health care either
directly or through third party payers. The private practice of medicine is to be accepted. Operators
have the freedom to enter the market, under limitations set up by the law and by national professional
standards. The State intends to create competition between the public sector and the private
non-profit sector in quality and cost. To favor NGO's, Government may provide financial incentives.
Doctors in the NHS have two regimes of work depending upon whether they work only in the MOH
or may also work elsewhere. The State may contract out services from medical providers to the
general population, to achieve better quality and cost conditions while still maintaining equal access
guarantees.
9.           Implementation of the new law and the accompanying decrees will improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of Angola's health services. The MOH considers the planned creation of
a competitive environment in the health sector to be a key element of these improvements. However,
development of that environment and the flourishing of services within it may be handicapped by
certain aspects of the new law. Therefore, although many positive changes are introduced, further
refinement of the recently enacted law is needed. This can be accomplished through MOH
administrative actions (primarily decrees) and will not require changes in the law. For example,
improvements could be made with regard to private health insurance, incentives for the private
management of public sector health services, and specific allowance for the coexistence of private
sector activities within public hospitals.
MOH action: The MOH is preparing the necessary decrees and will have drafts ready for discussion
at negotiations of the First Health Project.
10.          Beyond the new law discussed above, the MOH is taking additional steps to overcome
some of the major difficulties it faces in improving the effectiveness and efficiency of health services.
*   - Major changes in health worker training are being proposed by the MOH. These include
changes in admissions standards (and admissions testing), reduction in the numbers of health
I     The first piece wa to be submitted to the People's Aembly for final approvl . The maining four wete expected to
be quickly published.



ANNEX 2.5
Page 4 of 6
training institutions, merging of the mid-level and basic level training institutions, elimination
of general education components from the curricula, reduction in the length of certain
curricula, introduction of higher standards, and changes in the status and working conditions
of non-university trainers. All of these matters were discussed at a national level seminar in
July 1991, and the MOH is revising and completing texts and regulations regarding each of
these aspects of the health training system.
*       Involvement of private enterprises, under contract, in the provision of management and
support services for health facilities and services (e.g., in the management and support of the
rehabilitated Americo Boavida Hospital).
11.             Health manpower planning and health personnel management and development are
key areas for PHN sector development. Personnel costs are likely to account for a high proportion of
MOH expenditures, and the numbers, types, distribution, skills, motivation and performance of staff
are primary determinants of the effectiveness of services in the sector.
M-OH action: It is proposed that an intensive year-long analysis of the health manpower situation and
plans be carried out, leading to the development of specific rtcommendations for inclusion in the
National Health Development Plan, specifically to include (inter alia) integrated policies, programs
and projections, by level and type of personnel, for the training and effective use of non-physician
health personnel and of non-physician health services management personnel.2 More immediately,
with military demobilization physicians and other military health personnel will become available for
work in either the private or the public sectors.
MOH action: Given the scarcity of physicians, trained technical health personnel and health system
managers in Angola, the MOH will give careful attention to decisions and mechanisms for integrating
some of the demobilized (and/or possibly secunded) military health personnel into the MOH. MOH
will also consider and deal with the implications of the new laws with regard to the incorporation both
of military health personnel and of Angolan health personnel now residing in other countries into
Angola's health system, whether in the public, private or NGO sectors.
12.             The Government, with IDA, has begun a Public Expenditure Review (PER). We
attach the highest importance to the PHN sector's active participation in this review and in the
development of a Public Expenditure Program (PEP) for the sector. Initial review of available
information regarding health sector expenditures indicates that a much better financial information
system is needed, that there is relatively little relationship between budgets and expenditures, and that
2       Tbh bealth manpowerstudy would conuiderbodh qualitative and qua  tive aspects ofthe presenthealth peronnol situation
aod would lead to pecific recommendations for future developmeat Some key is_ to be dealt with re (i) the great need for upgadin of
the skill and knowledge of the majority of Angola's health workers, and the limited educational bae from which many of them man; (,) the
efficiency (an educational ternu) of the MOH training institutions and of other tunining school in Angola; Ciii) the baic and pecialty training
of physicians, in Angol or elsewhere; (fv) the projected needs and absorptive/support capacity for health workers, by type; (v) decision criteria
and data to wupport determination of the mix of health worker to be developed, by type and level of worker, (vi) the problem of overproduction
which would be encountered i a few years if health training production pacity were increaed to very quickly met cuent quantifive deficits
in health worken; (vii) aptitude, knowldge nd skillstesiqg meclianama to aure that incomiqg tudats are capable of successfully compieting
their coure, tht studenta are making adegqate progru and receiving needed help, and that at the end of training students can competntly
perform on the job; (viii) the need for on-the-job supervision and quality control to provide periodic or continuous feedback into the training
sytem.



ANNEX 2 5
Page 5 of 6
investment and operational expenditures are skewed away from primary health care and basic level
services and toward hospital services which are likely to be less cost-effective in terms of improving
health and contributing to development.
MOH action: These problems will be addressed directly in further PER work and in the development
of a PEP during project implementation.
13.         MOH action: Because of the importance of prevention of major increases in HIV
infection, the MOH will prepare a document summarizing currently available information regarding
HIV and AIDS in Angola; policies, plans and schedules for AIDS prevention activities; AIDS
prevention resources needed, resources available (by source and year), resource shortfalls and
proposals to meet them; and intersectoral and donor coordination for AIDS control.
POPULATION/FAMILY PLANNING
14.          Angola has a relatively low population density, especially in comparison with its
resources and its high potential for economic development. However, continued rapid population
growth, which could become even faster if fertility accelerates again in the post-war era, would be a
problem for health (e.g., through closely spaced births), for provision of social services and housing,
and for economic development. We believe that health and development in Angola would benefit
from the development and implementation of an intersectoral population policy. Family planning
services have a key role to play in heath and development, but there is a need both to fully support
and promote such services and to go beyond them in a population policy.
MO-H action: the MOH will prepare draft texts regarding family planning and contraception.
NUITRION
15.          Nutrition has been recognized as a major problem in recent years in the south of
Angola, due to war, decreased agricultural production, and drought. Recently, a UNICEF-sponsored
household survey in Luanda revealed that malnutrition and ill-health are serious problems in a high
proportion of households there. The draft report of that survey notes that the associations between
health/nutrition status and other indicators such as education and income indicate that problems in the
environment (e.g., sanitation) wiil need to be attacked in order to improve the situation; this will
require intersectoral coordination D tle process of health planning. Within the health sector, the
implications of the UNICEF findings are that special attention will need to be paid to the role Af the
health services' in dealing with malnutrition and in improving and promoting sanitation, water supply,
and nutrition. Intersectoral and donor coordination are of the utmost importance in nutrition, md the
MOH will participate fully in such coordination efforts.
MOH action: The iJOH will review and summarize with representatives of other sectors what is
known regarding the nutrition situation in Angola and its determifnants and propose what can be done
to improve that situation, through health services and through other interventions.



ANNEX 2.5
Page 6 of 6
WATER AND SANITATION
16.         Water and sanitation problems clearly contribute in a major way to Angola's health
problems. As noted above, the recent analyses of the UNICEF/Oxford Food Studies Group survey
confirm this and indicate that environmental determinants of ill health (such as water and sanitation
problems) should be subject to priority attention. It is understood, for example, that repairs to water
pumping systems could do much to improve the supply of water to Luanda, Lubango, and other
cities.
MOH action: witnin the GOA and in its dealings with other sectors and with donors, the MOH will
actively promote and support improvements in water supply and sanitation, in addition to giving
priority, particularly in health education, to the role of health services in promoting and supporting
improvements in water supply and use and in sanitation by individuals, families and communities.



ANNEX 3. 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIOUE D'ANGOLA
PROJET SANTE
Description du Bureau du Projet
1.           II a ete convenu durant la mission d'evaluation que le bureau du projet serait rattache
hidrarchiquement au directeur du Cabineic do Plano du Ministere de la Sante. Le bureau sera installe
dans un bltiment appartenant au Ministere de la Sante et situe non loin de celui-ci. La rehabilitation
de ce local sera financee sur le PPF du projet.
2.            Le bureau du projet sera responsable du suivi et de la coordination du projet et plus
particulibrement de: (i) Programmer les activites annuelles et etablir leur budget previsionnel, et tenir
a jour un calendrier de celles-ci; (ii) coordonner les activites des composantes; (iii) tenir I jour la
comptabilite du projet selon des normes acceptable pour l'IDA, produire regulibrement des etats
financiers de depenses par composante et par categories, gerer les comptes bancaires (compte spEcial
et compte de contre-partie) et proceder I leur reapprovisionnement regulier; (iv) proceder aux appels
d'offres et passer les marches selon les regles de la banque; (v) adresser des rapports d'activite
reguliers (trimestriels) I l'IDA; (vi) faire exEcuter l'audit des comptes annuellement; (vii) gerer les
contrats d'assistance technique finances par la projet, et (viii) faire proceder I une etude a mi-
parcours au cours de la 3bme annee d'execution du projet.
3.            Le bureau du projet sera compose (i) de nationaux: un directeur, specialiste en sante
publique, un ingenieur genie civil, un gestionnaire, un comptable, un responsable de la passation des
marchEs, deux secretaires et du personnel d'appui (chauffeurs, gardiens et planton); et (ii) d'une
assistance technique I long terme dans le domaine de la gestion et de l'administration. Une assistance
technique ponctuelle est prevue pour l'elaboration des dossiers d'appel d'offres des equipements
medicaux, I'atelier de demarrage du projet et l'evaluation I mi-parcours. L'annexe 2 de l'aide-
memoire donne une description detaillee des termes de reference de l'assistant technique
administrateur gestionnaire.
4.            Compte tenu de l'eloignement des sites de realisation de certaines composantes
(Lubango: 600 km, et Porto-Amboim: 300 km de Luanda), des difficultes de communication que
connatt l'Angola, de l'importance et de la dispersion des travaux de construction et renovation, le
bureau du projet et plus particulierement l'ingenieur genie civil devra avoir des contacts reguliers
avec les sites-de construction. Pour faciliter cette relation, il a ete convenu qu'une installation radio
relierait le Bureau du Projet avec Lubango et Porto-Amboim.
S.            Les etudes et le contrBle des travaux de genie civil financeds par le projet seront
confies I un architecte prive selectionne sclon des procddures acceptables pour l'IDA. L'arclittecte
du Cabinete do Plano participera I la selection de I architecte et supervisera les etudes de celui-ci.
L'ingenieur LEnie civil du bureau du projet assurera la coordination generale des Etudes et des



ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 2
chantiers et programmera des visites regulibres sur les sites de construction pour la verification de
I'avancement des travaux et la certification des paiements I effectuer.
6.                 En matibre de procurement, des dossiers d'appel d'offres types pour le genie civil et
pour les equipements ainsi que les listes d'equipements ont ete pr6pare durant la mission d'evaluation.
Cependant, il est prevu une assistance technique ponctuelle pour la mise au point definitive des listes
d'equipement et la redaction des specifications technique des appareillages. Afin de renforcer la
fonction achat et passation des marches, le responsable de ce bureau participera I un stage de
formation en passation de marche organise par la Banque durant la premibre annee du projet.
7.                 Le projet financera: la rdhabilitation des locaux (227 m2), le mobilier et l'equipement
des bureaux, les vdhicules (2 tout-terrain et 1 vdhicule leger), I'assistance technique locale (540
homme-mois) et internationale (60 homme-mois), la formation I I'etranger, et 80% des coGts
operationnels.
ProUramme Architectural du Bureau du Proiet:
- Bureau directeur                           ............................. .12,00
- Administrateur Gestionnaire  .............................  12,00
- SecrdtariatlDactylo             .           ............................ 15,00
- Service Achat/Marches   .                   ............................ 12,00
- Ingenieur                                  ............................. .12,00
- Gestion                                    ............................. .15,00
- Comptabilite                               ........ I .................... 12,00
- Salle de reunions              .            ............................ 20,00
- Acceuil-attente               ............................. 15,00
- Reprographie                 ............................. 10,00
- Dep6t                   .............................. 5,00
- Kitchenette                                .............................. 3,00
- Sanitaires                 .............................. 7,00
- Circulations/Escaliers    .                 ............................ 68,00
- Archives exterieures             .          ............................. 9,00
- Total surface utile             .           .......................... 227,00 M2



ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 of 9
ANGOLA
PROJET SANTE
Termes de rference pour l'Assistance Technique
au Bureau du Projet et au Ministere de la Sante
A/ Poste: ADMINISTRATEUR GESTIONNAIRE
Responsabilite gdnErale:   Assistance a la Direction du Projet et a l'equipe de gestion du fPjd
Lieu d'affectation:       Luanda (Angola)
Duree d'affectation:       60 mois
Date de prise de fonction:    Des que possible
1.           Contexte gEnEral. L'Angola est entre dans une periode de restructuration conomique
et sort d'un long conflit arm qui a provoque un disfonctionnement et une dEtdrioration des services
de sant. Le personnel et les services de sante sont concentres I Luanda. La richesse du pays en
ressources naturelles, dans le cadre d'un dveloppement economique, devrait permettre de supporter
un systeme efficace de services de sant. Bien que la politique de sante reste I etre clarifiee et les
prioritees definies, la politique actuelle comporte de nombreux aspects positifs, incluant une focali-
sation sur les soins de sante primaire et une equitable repartition des services.
2.           Les financements exterieurs et l'assistance technique sont n6cessaires afin d'aider le
Gouvernement a rehabiliter et reconstruire les infrastructures de sante et pour ameliorer la couverture
et l'efficacite des services de sante. La CEE, le SIDA et d'autres bailleurs de fonds financent
actuellement des rEhabilitations importantes dans la ville de Luanda. Le SIDA a aussi prevu d'aider
sur le long terme la formation en cours d'emploi et la fourniture de medicaments essentiels, et le
SIDA et la CEE prevoient une assistance technique pour aider le Ministere de la Sante dans son effort
de coordination des activites des bailleurs. Le FNUAP supporte le programme national de "family
planning", et l'OMS associee I plusieurs donnateurs supporte la realisation d'un programme & moyen
terme pour la lutte contre le sida (actuellement repandu I un taux de prevalence bas pour SSA) et les
STD. Quelques ONG sont egalement impliquees dans le secteur sante, et notamment l'Eglise
Catholique qui gbre plusieurs etablissements de sante dans le pays. La BAD finance un projet pour
renforcer le programme de medicaments essentiels et en prepare un autre pour une etude sur le
secteur sante. La premibre phase de I'etude BAD a ete terminee en fevrier 1992 et le rapport a ete
discute lors d'un seminaire organise par le Ministere de la Sante et la BAD. Sur la base de ce



ANNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 9
rapport, le Gouvernement a prepare une document de strategie qui sera revu au moment des
negociations du projet.
3.           Objectifs du Premier Projet Sante Vropose par l'IDA . Le projet propose a trois
objectifs principaux: (i) developpement d'une politique de sante et renforcement institutionnel; (ii)
developpement des ressources humaines; et (iii) support direct aux services de sante a travers la
rehabilitation de plusieurs installations de sante selectionnees, et aide I plusieurs programmes de sante
prioritaires en cours.
4.           Description du Projet. Au niveau national: (i) support au developpement d'une
politique de santd et renforcement institutionnel du Ministere de la Sante et etudes de
prdinvestissement; (ii) support a des programmes nationaux en cours, incluant: sida et family
planning. Au niveau regionnal, dans la province de Huila et I Lubango: (iii) rehabilitation et
extension de l'Ecole Professionnelle de Sante, rehabilitation d'un centre de sante, et de deux postes
de sante I Tchioco et Nabambe (rataches I l'ecole); (iv) equipement de la maternite et de la pediatrie
de Lubango et rEhabilitation de postes de sante additionnels selectionnes. Au niveau municipal, dans
la ville de Porto Amboim, (v) rehabilitation de l'hopital et de deux postes de sante.
5.           Financement du projet. L'IDA financera environ 95 % du cout du projet dont 100%
de I'assistance technique.
6.           Execution du Prcjiet. Le Ministere de la Sante sera responsable de 1'execution du
projet. Une assistance technique I long terme sera necessaire. La participation d'ONG et de leur
personnel est prevue et a ete definie pendant la mission d'evaluation. Des negociations sont en cours
entre le Gouvernement, I'Eglise Catholique, CARE et "Medecins sans Frontibres". Le Ministbre de
la Sante n'ayant pas suffisamment de ressources humaines afm d'assurer la realisation de ces aspects
du projet, il a ete convenu avec le Gouvernement que les ONG selectionnees s'occuperont de la
rehabilitation de certains services de sante et assureront leur gestion. En particulier, les ONG seront
impliquees dans la rehabilitation et la gestion de certains centres de santE selectionnes de la region
de Huila et, de l'hopital et de deux postes de sante I Porto Amboim.
7.           Gestion du PLkt. Le projet sera g6re par un Bureau du Projet. Ce Bureau sera
compose de nationaux: un Directeur du Projet I plein temps, un gestionnaire-omptable et un adjoint
comptable, un service d'achat et du personnel d'appui; il sera renforce par une assistance technique
internationale dont la description des tAches est la suivante:
8.           Definition des taches. En etroite collaboration avec le personnel du bureau du projet,
le consultant assistera le Directeur du Projet dans toutes les taches d'organisation du projet et dans
l'application stricte des reglements et documents de la Banque dans le cadre de l'execution des projets
(Accords de Credit, directives pour la passation des marches et le recrutement de consultants, les
regles de ddcaissement du crddit, les regles d'audit des comptes, le rapport d'evaluation et les aide-
memoires des missions de supervision).
A partir de ce cadre gLneral. I'assistant technique devra:



ANNEX 3.2
Page 3 of 9
- organiser le travail I reatiser dans le cadre du PPF (Project Preparation Facility):
II participera I l'elaboration des documents d'appel d'offres et I la selection de(s) societe(s) responsa-
ble(s) de la construction de 5 logements et de la rehabilitation du batiment destine a abriter le Bureau
du Projet.
- organiser le Bureau du Projet:
11 participera I l'elaboration des termes de reference destines I la selection et au recrutement du
personnel du Projet et etablira une fiche de description des t*ches et responsabilites de chacun.
II participera I la mise en place des procedures d'organisation et de controle interne et notamment
les systemes de circulation et d'approbation des documents, de traitement des dossiers, de gestion du
personnel,
- mettre en place et superviser le service de comptabilite:
11 participera I la selection du logiciel de comptabilite, I l'etablissement d'une description des taches
h reatiser par les deux comptables (un chef comptable et un adjoint comptable) et I leur formation
& la comptabilite sur ordinateur I travers des seances de formation sur place ou avec l'aide d'une
societe de formation. La comptabiite sera organisee de fagon a produire des etats de depenses par
categories et par composantes chaque mois et en particulier avant la venue de chaque mission de suivi
de la Banque Mondiale.
11 participera a la mise en place les procedures de reconstitution du compte special, et les procedures
d'achat (previsions budgetaires par composantes, demandes d'achat, procedures d'achat, bons de
commande).
- determiner et programmer toutes les activit6s du projet:
11 participera & l'elaboration d'un planning detaille du projet par composante et par taches I realiser.
Ce planning sera mis a jour mensuellement et plus particulierement avant la venue des missions de
suivi. 11 proposera des reunions: (i) afin de sensibliser et d'expliquer I chaque responsable de
composante la part du projet qu'il devra realiser et (ii) afin de statuer sur les retards d'execution et
de trouver des solutions en cas de blocage.
- mettre en place et superviser la gestion du projet:
11 participera I l'elaboration reguliere des etats financiers refletant la situation du projet et permettant
d'evaluer l'avancement, de comparer celui-ci a l'avancement prevu lors de l'evaluation, prendre
contact avec le responsable de la composante, et prendre les decisions necessaires pour ameliorer le
rythme des decaissements si ndcessaire.
B partic pera I l'elaboration d une liste restreinte d'audits et preparera la consultation en vue de
selectionner une firme d'audit selon les regles "L'etablissement des rapports financiers et la revision
des comptes des projets financds par la Banque Mondiale" (Avril 1990). n verifiera que chaque
annee, avant le 30 juin, le rapport d'audit sera envoye I la Banque.
In participera I I'elaboration: des rapports d'activite du trimestre precedent, et des propositions
d'activites pour les trimestres suivants, que le projet doit envoyer a la Banque de maniere reguliere.
- mettre en place les procedures et les documents d'appel d'offres pour 'les achats
d'equipements, de vehicules et la sElection des entreprises pour la realisation des travaux de genie
civil. n1 participera I l'elaboration de ces documents, I partir des documents types de la Banque et
en accord avec les regles de l'IDA contenues dans le document "Directives pour la passsation des
.narchEs" (mai 1985).



ANNEX 3.2
Page 4 of 9
11 proposera des procedures de reception des equipements et des travaux de genie civil.
- mettre en place les procedures, rediger les termes de reference, et proceder aux
consultations pour la selection des consultants, specialistes et bureaux d'etudes. 11 participera I
l'elaboration de ces documents, selon les regles de l'IDA "Directives pour l'emploi des consultants
par les emprunteurs de la Banque Mondiale et par la Banque Mondiale en tant qu'agence d'execution"
(Aoet 1981).
- coordonner et superviser les differents intervenants dans les travaux de genie civil (bureau
d'etudes, entrepreneurs, ONG) et visiter regulierement les chantiers de construction et de rEhabilita-
tion.
- programmer et organiser les dtudes d' 6valuation I mis parcours du projet et les etudes
preparatoires k une eventuelle deuxibme operation.
Oualifications:     Dipldme d'Ingenieur (de preference dans le domaine Genie civil) plus
formation en gestion;
Si possible experience du travail dans un projet finance par la Banque
mondiale en tant qu' Administrateur Gestionnaire;
Capacite I travailler avec des homologues et au transfert de
connaissances;
Bonnes connaissances des regles de la Banque en matiere de passation des
marchEs;
Bonnes connaissances du travail sur ordinateur (traitement de texte, base de
donnEes et tableurs);
Bonnes connaissances de la langue portuguaise comme langue de travail et
bonne connaissance de I'anglais.
lse de contrat:     une annEe renouvelable pendant cinq annees.
Divers:             I'assistant technique sera base I Luanda et visitera occasionnellement la
province de Huila et Porto Amboim pour l'evaluation de l'avancement des
travaux de- genie civil et la reception des equipements.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 5 of 9
ANGOLA
Ministry of Health/World Bank
HEALTH PROJECT
B/ TORs FOR LONG TERM HEALTH PLANNING & MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AT THE CENTRAL MOH
Title(s): HEALTH PLANNING ADVISOR                  Title: HEALTH SERVICES MANAGEMENT ADVI-
SOR
Field: HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS PLANNING            Field: MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DE-
AND DEVLOPMENT                                     VELOPMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS
AND OF HEALTH SERVICES SUPPORT SYSTEMS
ORGANIZATIONAL LOCATION & COUNTER-                 ORGANIZATIONAL LOCATION & COUNTER-
PART(S): Ministry of Health. Health Plannins Unit  PART(S): Ministry of Health. Health Plannina Unit
with the head of the Planning Unit as principal    (for overall coordination of projects and health
counterpart; frequent contacts with donor repre-   services planning and development activities), with
sentatives in the areas of health, population/family  an assigned central level counterpart and with
planning and nutrition and with non-MOH service    continuous working contacts with directors and
provider representatives and staff, at the central  staff of health services management and support
level and in Lubango, Huila                        systems at the central level and in Huila Province
DURATION AND TIMING OF CONSULTANCY:                DURATION AND TIMING OF CONSULTANCY:
Four years beginning as soon as possible after     Five years, beginning as soon as possible after
project start-up, possibly preceded by PPF-financed  project start-up, possibly preceded by PPF-financed
pre-project work.                                  pre-project work.
RESPONSIBILITIES: In close collaboration with      RESPONSIBIL.TIES: In close collaboration with
counteroarts and other designated personnel, the   counterparts and with other designated personnel,
consultant will:                                  the consultant will:
Transfer specific orofessional knowledoe. skills and  Transfer specific orofessional knowledae. skills and
techniaues to counterpart(s) and (as appropriate in  techniques to counterpart(s) and (as appropriate in
terms of overall health system needs and policies)  terms of overall health system needs and policies)
to other MOH staff and to other relevant person-   to other MOH staff and to other relevant person-
nel, including NGO & and private sector officials.  nel, including NGO & and private sector officials.
Also In close collaboration with counterparts and  Also In close collaboration with counterparts and
other designated personnel, the consultant will    other designated personnal, the consultant will
assist themn to:                                   assist them to:
Analyze and assess the current status, needs,      Analyze and assess the current status, needs,
'development possibilities and development poten-  capabilities and development potential of health
tial of health planning and programming capacity   and family planning services management systems
and activities at the national (especially) and pro-  and of resources useful in analyzing and strength-
vincial levels.                                    ening such systems.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 6 of 9
Determine obiectives. ortions and alternatives for  Determine obiectives. options and alternatives for
improving the national and provincial health plan-  improving the structure and operations of health
ning capacity, along with decision criteria for se-  systems management and support systems, along
lection among the alternatives                     with decision criteria for selection among the alter-
natives
Select a set of interventions to imorove national  Select a set of interventions to imorove the struc-
and orovincial health Wlannina cagacity. and devel-  ture and operations of health systems manage-
oD action olans to implement them, including staff  ment, service deliverv and sugoort systems, and
and other resources needed for their implementa-   develon action olans to implement them, including
tion                                               staff and other resources needed for their imple-
mentation
Develop a National Health Plan, including in that  Contribute, from the health services and health
development process the assessment and interore-   systems management Doint of view, to develoo-
tation of available information and the planning,  r,ent of a National Health Plan, including support
coordination and interpretation of any additional  for the design, coordination, execution, analysis
sector studies and other activities needed for poli-  and interpretation of any studies needed in those
cy adaptation, for the development of the National  areas
Health Plan, and for assessment of resource avail-
ability and resource needs for the sector
Keep relevant health policv makers and health      Keen relevant health nolicy makers and health
system decision makers informed of progress and    system decision makers informed of progress and
of decisions to be made, throughout the process,   of decisions to be made, throughout the process,
through official communications and through other  through official communications and through other
reports and presentations in a timely and appropri-  reports and presentations in a timely and appropri-
ate way                                            ate way
OUTPUTS AND REPORTS: A schedule of outputs         OUTPUTS AND REPORTS: A schedule of outputs
and reports will be developed by the Ministry of   and reports will be developed by the Ministry of
Health, in coordination with other donors and      Health, in coordination with other donors and
technical agencies involved in or providing support  technical agencies involved in or providing support
for health/population/nutrition sector studies,   for efforts to strengthen health system and health
health planning, and policy review and adjustment  services management in Angola
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: Evaluation of the          PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: Evaluation of the
consultant's performance will be based on assess-  consultant's performance will be based on assess-
ment of (i) the degree to which appropriate knowl-  ment of (i) the degree to which appropriate knowl-
edge, skills and methodologies have been acquired  edge, skills and methodologies have been acquired
by counterparts and (ii) the appropriateness, quali-  by counterparts and (ii) the appropriateness, quali-
ty and timeliness of outputs and reports          ty and timeliness of outputs and reports
QUALIFICATIONS: HEALTH PLANNING ADVISOR            QUALIFICATIONS: HEALTH SERVICES MANAGE-
and CHIEF OF PARTY                                 MENT ADVISOR
*      Masters or doctoral level training in health
planning, public health or the equivalent relevant  *     Bachelors or masters level training in
training, knowledge, skills and experience (medical  management, public health or the equivalent rele-
training also desirable)                           vant training, knowledge, skills and experience
(medical training also desirable)
*      At least five years' working experience in
health planning at the national or regional level, at  S  At least five years' working experience in
least two of which in a developing country        the management of health services and health
services support systems, at the national level, at
least three of which in a developing country and at



ANNEX 3.2
Page 7 of 9
least 'wo of which have not been hospital-fo-
*      At least two years' working experience in   cussed
Sub-Saharan Africa
*      At least two years' working experience in
*      Demonstrated ability to work well with      Sub-Saharan Africa
counterparts and transfer knowledge and skills to
them, to lead and manage consultant teams and to    *      Demonstrated ability to work well with
coordinate their work, and to deal with representa-  counterparts and transfer knowledge and skills to
tives of other related sectors (especially popula-  them, to work with consultant teamL and to coor-
tion/family planning and nutrition/food security)   dinate central and provincial ievel management
and of international donors and technical agencies  improvement activities
*      At least a professional work-
ing/intermediate level knowledge of Portuguese,
demonstrated or tested prior to the beginning of
the long-term assignment (native speaker of Portu-
guese preferred)                                   *       At least a professional nt'ork-
ingfintermediate level knowledge of Portuguese,
o      Very good writing and communication         demonstrated or tested prior to the beginning of
skills in English, sufficient to prepare English ver-  the long-term assignment (native speaker of Portu-
sions of reports and plans for review and discus-  guese preferred)
sion with international agencies and donors
e      Very good writing and communication
i      Computer knowledge and skills sufficient    skills in English, sufficient to prepare English ver-
to facilitate introduction and professional use of  sions of reports and plans for review and discus-
microcomputers and relevant programs by counter-   sion with international agencies and donors
parts in the health planning and report develop-
ment/presentation processes (including word pro-    0      Computer knowledge and skills sufficient
cessing, spreadsheets, relational database, and    to facilitate introduction and professional use of
preferably also statistical analysis and project   microcomputers and relevant programs by counter-
management programs)                               parts in the health management systems and in
report development (including word processing,
spreadsheets, relational database, and preferably
also project management programs)



ANNEX 3.2
Page 8 of 9
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
HEALTH PROJECT
LIST OF CONSULTANTS AND SERVICES
(in man-months)
A. Strengthening Health Sector Policv and Manaaement
Project administrator (F or 1) .........              ...............  60
TA for lauching workshop (F) ....1.........                                          1
Management specialist (F or I) ................                                    60
Planning specialist (F or 1)  ........              ................  60
Mid-term  review (F)        ........................ 4
Procurement specialist (F)  ........................ 6
Audit (F)                   ........................  5
Local technical assistance () ........................                            540
B. Support for Selected National Health and Rehabilitation Proarams
B.l/SuDfort for Priority National Health Proarams
Technical assistance AIDS (F or 1 ......................... 10
Technical assistance Population, Family Planning (F or I) .....         .......... 7
B.2/Rehabilitation of selected Health Posts in the Province of Huila
Services for implementation (N)  ................................
B.3/Relocation end UJgrading of the Health School and the Health Center in Lubano_
Architectural design and Supervision (F) ...........................
Chief Technical Advisor (F) ................................... 60
Biomedical specialist (F)  .     ..................................  12
Career specialist (F)           .................................... 2
Pedagogical Programs apecialist (F) .........            .................... 2
Training Evaluation specialist (F) ..........          .................... 38
B.4/Rfehabilitation of Porto Amboim
Clinical Director           ................................... 35
Hospital Manager            ................................... 45
Stock technician            ................................... 50
Nurses (trainers)           ................................... 120
Gynecologist        .        ................................... 3
Pediatrist                  .............3.............,                             3
Surgeon           .          .................................. 10
(F)      Firm selected from short list
(F or I) Firm or Individual selected from' short list
(I)      Individual selected from short list
(N)      Services provided by NGO



ANNEX 3,2
Page 9 of 9
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
HEALTH PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL MAN-MONTH ASSISTANCE
ACTIVITIES          Internat.       Internat.        Local          Local
Long Term      Short Term      Long Term     Short Term   TOTAL
MOH                      120             -             -                  _           120
PIU                      60              16             540                           616
AIDS/FP             _          _         17             -                              17
LUBANGO SCHOOL           72              42                               -           114
PORTO AMBOIM             170             80            -                  16          250
TOTAL                    422            155             540               16         1133
Technical assistance on the field by NGO lIglesa Catolica)
Procurement: In order to streamline the procurement process, it is suggested that the PIU proceed to
the regroupment, to the extent possible, of the above technical assistance by type of field and
prepare related procurement documents. Example of such groupings could be: (a) all technical
assistance for the Lubango Health Shool (similar institution or firm selected from short list), (b)
technical assistance related to management, administration and planning (firm or individual selacted
from short list) and (c) technical assistance for AIDS and Family Planning programs (firm or individual
selected from short list). The NGO's for the Health Posts and the Porto Amboim Rehabilitation have
been assessed and selected during appraisal on the basis of their ability to: li) reach poor communities
and remote areas; (ii) involve and promote local participation; (iii) operate at low cost; and (iv) identify
and respond to local needs. In addition, the selected NGO's are already operating on the sites
considered by the project. In particular, the Catholic Church is providing nursing services and drugs to
the Porto Amboim Hospital and MSF/Spain is rehabilitating some health facilities in the Huila Province.
Draft contracts have been prepared during appraisal on the basis of sample documents provided by
the Bank.



ANNX 3.3
Page 1 of 2
TRAINING Ph'OGRAMS
1994  1995  1996  TOTAL
1.    HEALTH SECTOR POLICY AND MANAGEMENT
MOH Senior Staff (A)
-     Health Planning for Primary
Health care Systems:
(1 Central level*12months,
1 Prov. level*12months)                 8      16           24p*m
-     Health Economics/Finance
Financial Management
(1 Central level*l2months
1 Prov. level*12months)                        8      16    24p*m
- Management of Health and
Hospital Systems
(1 Central level*l2months,
I Prov. level*12months)                 8      12           24p*m
2.    REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
AIDS/STD Control Proga    Training Seminars (L)
-     Educators/trainers:
30*5 weeks                              180                  180p*w
Family Planning (L)
-     Prevential Personnel/Nurses:
180*3 weeks                             60    240   240   540p*w
-     P3pulation/Family Planning:
130*2 weeks                             130   130           260p*w
-     Family Planning Policy:                                 -
75*2 weeks                              75    75             150p*w



ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 2
1924  I199  I199   TOTAL
Lubango Health School
-     Biomedical Engineering (A):
1*12months                             4      8             12p*m
-     Study Tours (A)
School Director*lm
Studies Dept Dir.*lm                   2                    2p*m
-     Doc. Specialist*12m (A)                        12           12p*m
-     Health Training Seminars (L)
20 trainers*6days                      36    60    24    120p*d
Porto Amboim Hospital (L)
-     2 gynecologist*3months                  2      2      2     6p*m
-     3 pediatrist*3months                    3      3      3     9p*m
6 technicians (small surg.)            20    20    20    60p*m
Note: (A): Abroad training
(B): Local training



ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 8
HEALTH PROJECT SUPPORT FOR PRIORlTY PROGRAMS:
AIDS AND POPULATION/FAMILY PLANNING
A.    Support for the National AIDS Control Program  '
Background
1.    WHO estimates that in 1992 there will be an additional 700 new AIDS cases in Angola;
120 of these cases will be diagnosed among children. In 1992, the total amount of HIV infected
persons is estimateci at 10,000. However, this number could increase very rapidly due to
increased mobility within the country and to the return of Angolans from neighboring countries
where the HIV prevalence is much higher. In order to taclde this problem, the Ministry of
Health in collaboration with the donor community developed an operational program and is in the
process of seeking external financing.
The National AIDS Control Program (PNLS)
2.    The main objective of the National AIDS Control Program (PLNS - Programa Nacional
de Luta contra o SIDA) is to better control blood transfusions, assure use of sterile needles and
syringes in health facilities throughout the country, carry out educational campaigns geared
towards young people (to create awareness about safer sexual behaviors and the use of condoms),
and to make condoms more available. This program will thereby help in the reduction of HIV
transmission throughout the country. In this context, the following strategies will be adopted: (a)
the elaboration of an operational AIDS program for the national as well as provincial levels, (b)
the identification of institutions that can assist in the implementation of this program; (c) the
recruitment of international as well as local technical assistance in the areas of management,
health education, etc.; (d) the training and recyclage of local personnel; (e) the modalities for
collaboration between the various institutions working on educational aspects of AIDS/STD; and
(f) the enlargement of the network of laboratories capable of diagnosing HIV and STDs.
3.    The following donors are supporting the various operational components of the PNLS:
(a)    WHO 3nd UNDP are supporting the management of the program;
(b)    The French Cooperation is supporting the clinical aspects of the program;
(c)    WHO, EEC and SIDA are supporting the laboratories and the epidemiological
surveillance;
(d)    The World Bank, in collaboration with UNICEF and UNFPA, will support
Government's efforts in the area of health education.
V l. FHat HNm& Pts aiceut for as Xm. AMS Co" P_og, fomead eme pureW's Jnfaiim, E*idmu amd Co_min
(EC.)  at ** Mime oqf  MOHe VOA; wm b  ppt m MBC _ of dme PaPUb&Wfa*r pbenba sv&i.. it 13 afi_b
d.cdm Qhr. qsecc mpeo if me Fui N   P*kw&    .qupat forw 1pabW&hV ptfn -bv*iu



ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 8
4.    The Health Education Component of the PNLS has as its main objective to: (a) facilitate
the flow of information about AIDS and STDs to and within the target groups in order to reduce
the risk of transmission of the HIV virus through sexual contact; and (b) undertake surveys and
studies on the knowledge, attitudes and sexual behaviors (KAP) related to the transmission of the
HIV virus .J sexually active high risk population groups.
Proposed IHealth Project Support for AIDS Control Activities
5.    The project will finance the following aspects of the health education component of the
PNLS:
(a)    provide assistance at the provincial level in order to put in place information,
education and communication (EEC) activities related to AIDS and STDs by
organizing a training session for provincial staff on health education and EEC
related to sexually transmittable diseases and AIDS and the use of condoms.
(b)    Strengthen the collaboration between the various actors involved in health
education activities including the media (radio, television, newspapers), the
National Institute of Educational Research and Development (INIDE), Angolan
Association to Combat AIDS, etc.
(c)   In order to promote the usage of condoms, the national health education program,
in parallel with the distribution and sale of condoms, will organize radio and
television campaigns so as to inform the public regarding the access to and use of
condoms.
(d)    Define a nationwide strategy for the distribution and sale of condoms.
(e)    Undertake KAP studies in the provinces of Benguela, Vinge, Malange, Zaire and
Luanda.
6.    Short-term international technical assistance will be required to train nationals in the
development of a methodology for the development and utilization of educational materials. This
technical assistance will also be required to test these educational materials in order to ensure a
maximum impact on the target groups.
7.    The cost of these activities is estimated at $730,000 over a period of 5 years. The project
will finance 12 person-months of technical assistance, the purchase and distribution of condoms,
the production of radio and television spots, the publication of educational articles for AIDS Day,
and the preparation and distribution of an AIDS/STD educational manual for primary and
secondary schools. A provisiuun h aiso been made to organize a training course for provincial
staff on health education and EEC (an external consultant will be recruited to teach the course). In
addition, provision has been made under the PPF for the financing of 2 person-months of
technical assistance for IEC preparatory activities.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 8
PROPOSAL FOR IDA FINANCING FOR PNLS
(US$'O00)
, ~                  .1- ,  ,         ,
|  l99Z    993| 1994   199S    1996    1997   TOTAL
TRAINING
Seminar for 30 education trainers           26                                           26
EOUIPMENT/MATERIALS
1. Equ;- dent for radio and television       5                                            5
spois
2. Publication of articles related to       10       10      10       10       10        50
AIDS and STDs in various
newspapers
3. Preparation of a sexual education        15                                           15
manual to prevent AIDS and
STDs in primary and secondary
schools, commnunities and for
education of prostitutes
4. World AIDS Day                            3        3       3        3        3        15
5. Distnbution of condoms                   75       75      75       75      75        375
6. Advertising campaign                     10       10       10      10       10        S0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/
STUDIES
1. KAP Surveys
Benguela                                   2.5
Vigo                                               2.5
Malange                                                     2.5
Zaire                                                               2.5
Luanda                                                                       2.5
12.5
2. Technical Assisance                      90               90                         180
TOTAL                                      236.5   100.5   190.5   100.5   105.5        728.5
PPF Fmancing 1992/93                35
2 person/months of technical
assistance



ANX3A
Page 4 of 8
B.    Support for National Population/Family Planning Activities
Background
8.    Angola's total population density is 8 per square kilometer. The country's population
grew at estimated average annual rates of 2.0% in 1965-73, 3.5% in 1973-80, and 2.5% in 1980-
89, and UNFPA estimates that it is growing at an annual rate of 2.08% in 1990-95. These
estimates are tentative and are based on weak data; a national Demographic and Health Survey
proposed for 1993/94 and a proposed national census (for which enumeration could possibly begin
in 1995) will provide better bases for planning in health and in other sectors. There is concern
that with peace population growth rates might accelerate. Rapid population growth and
insufficient family planning services are likely to constitute a problem for health (e.g., through
closely spaced births) and for provision of social services and housing. Many health service
facilities, especially in rural areas, have been damaged during the war, and in general the
efficiency of the health services, which are a crucial channel for family planning services and
commodities, is low. Contraceptive use is very low, although a latent demand is present and
efforts to increase family planning use are underway.
The Pplation Studies Unit
9.    The Ministry of Plan's Population Studies Unit (Nucleo de Estudo da Populacao), with
UNFPA support and the participation of the MOH and other sectors, is developing a National
Population and Family Planning Policy. The GOA's Economic Recovery Plan (Plano de
Recuperacoa Economica) for 1993-95 is to have a chapter on population, with a proposal for the
chapter being prepared by the unit for review in June 1992. An interministerial Technical Group
for Population and Family Planning Policy Development was created in May of 1990. UNFPA-
supported long term Technical Assistance to the unit is assured until late 1993, and UNFPA has
been seeking funding to continue that assistance after that time. Among the principal concerns of
the unit, in addition to policy development, are the preparation, execution, technical quality,
analysis and interpretation of a national census and of other population-relevant studies. The unit
is also concerned with the dissemination of the results and conclusions of such studies and the
correct use of their findings and recommendations by planners and decision makers in all sectors.
Currently. the unit foresees that a national Demographic and Health Survey will be carried out in
1993/94 and that a national census will be prepared and carried out, with enumeration possibly
beginning in 1995.
The National Family Planning Program
10.   The National Family Planning Program is organizationally a part of the Maternal and
Child Health Department in the Ministry of Health's Na ional Public Health Directorate. It is one
of two programs in the Department's Maternal Health Sector (the other being the Antenatal Care
Program). The Family Planning Program has been expanding, with financial and technical
support from UNFPA and other donors. UNFPA supports the training and upgrading of mid-
level nurses in MCH, provides medical equipment and supplies for MCH and delivery rooms, as
well as some contraceptives for the PNPF. Swedish SIDA (ASDI) supports a program to
coordinate obstetric care in Luanda Province (CAOL). The International Planned parenthood
Federation (IPPF) supports activities to sensitize and mobilize the population for MCH, with



ANNX 3.4
Page 5 of 8
special emphasis on family planning, and provides the majority of the PNPF's contraceptives.
UNICEF supports community level activities, with emphasis on the training and supervision of
traditional birth attendants. However, the PNPF remains an essentially urban program with
limited coverage and a limited number of outlets. There are now 43 PNPF family planning
service points, nationwide, up from 31 functioning through 1991. UNFPA estimates that
contraceptive prevalence rate is 4.1% in 1992 and will reach 5.9% in 1993 and 8.4% in 1994.
11.   The National Family Planning Program was recently reviewed and discussed in the
context of Angola's National Conference Safe Motherhood. One of the Conference's final
recommendations, as part of efforts to attain the objective of reducing maternal mortality by 50%
by the year 2000, was to "expand family planning services, strengthening their integration into
maternal and child health care, assuring adequate community awareness and giving special
attention to the needs of adolescents". A related final recommendation was to "permit the
unrestricted ("de forma livre") sale in pharmacies of barrier methods of contraception,
nevertheless requiring a medical prescription for access to hormonal methods". The need to
follow-up on proposed changes in related laws is also noted. Other recommendations stress the
importance of improving social communication for maternal health and family planning, including
family life education in the schools and interventions to "inform, sensitize and promote
participation of change agents such as activists, teachers, and community and religious leaders in
the general mobilization for maternal health topics, including family planning and sexually
transmitted diseases, with special attention to AIDS".
12.   Angola's family planning program effort is rated as "weak" in the first report of a recent
UNFPAIPopulation Council cross-national comparison of family planning programs in 103
developing countries with more than one million population. In that questionnaire study of 30
indices of family planning program effort, Angola's score of 39 (of a possible 100) places the
program slighty above the sub-Saharan African countries' average 1989 score of 36 (up from 15
for SSA in 1982, but still close to the 1989 score of 33 for the lowest rated region, the Middle
East/North Africa).W The authors of the study find program effort to be an important factor in
fertility decline at every level of socioeconomic status. They also note that good programs, in
addition to assuring the availability of contraceptives, "typically add a strong component of
education, legitimation, and endorsement". Angola needs to advance in all of these areas, as a
means of improving maternal and child health, to make the necessary services available to those
who want to plan their families, and as one means of facilitating social and economic
development. Both the public and the private sectors will need to be involved in those efforts.
;a/    John A. Ross and Padw Mauldin, Family Planning Pnmgman: Effoits and Rsults, 1982-1989. Studiea in
Family Planning, VoL 22 Number 6, Novcmwbr/Docember 1991.
3/    Roa and Mauldin, p. 363.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 6 of 8
Proposed Health Project Support for Population/Family Planning Activities
13.   The project will provide through UNFPA $520,000 to support both policy and program
development in population and family planning. The Ministry of Health's National Family
Planning Program will receive $320,000 to fund equipment purchases for MCH/family planning
facilities. In addition, training seminars will be held for provincial level health personnel (on
family planning program management) and for nurses (family planning service training). A total
of $200,000 will be provided to the Ministry of Plan's Population Studies Unit, from 1993 to
1995, to fund 7 person./months of technical assistance for the development of a National
Population and Family Planning Policy, to prepare a national seminar in 1993 to build support for
the development, and implementation of population and family planning policies, and programs
and activities of the Technical Group for development of Population and Family Planning Policy.
(As described in part A of this annex, other First Health Project funds, not included in the
$520,000 total, will be provided through WHO and the National AIDS control program to support
and coordinate IEC and condom distribution efforts which will benefit both the AIDS control and
the Population and Family Planning Programs).



ANNEX 3.4
Page 7 of 8
HEALTH PROJECT SUPPORT FOR NATIONAL PROGRAMS
IN POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING (US$'OOO)
YEARS|
PROGRAM & ACTIVITY           j193  1.                        A  SL
199    |   994 1993       1996       1997      TOTAL  |
MOH: NATIONAL E'AMILY
PLANNING PROGRAM 
BEuigment
1. MHC/FP Service Facilities           30        100         80                             210
2. Audio Visual Equipment                                    10         10                    20
Traiini
1. Provincial level personnel;                    10         40        40                     90
Nurses (family planning
training); and Management,
supervision and logistics
peronnel.
Subtotal                                30       110        130         50                   320
MOP: POPULATION STUDIES
UNIT                                                                                              l
Technical Assistance
1. Development of a National           25         75         25                              125
Population and Family Planning
Policy
Trininn
1. National Seninar on Population                 S0                                          S0
and Family Planning (late 1993)
2. Technical Group Activities for                            10         10          5         25
Development of Population and
Pamily Planning Policy
Subtotal                                25       125         35         10          5        200
TOTAL        L                         55        235        165         60          5        520



ANNEX 3.4
Page 8 of 8
C.    Management of the IDA Contribution for Priority Program Support
14.   The funds from the IDA credit to support health education activities will be administered
by WHO - this is due to its key role in the management of the National AIDS Control Program
in Angola. The funds available to support family planning/population activities will be
administered by UNFPA. Funds will be allocated on a yearly basis to WHO and UNFPA who
will be responsible for allocating funds for the various IDA-financed activities. Both WHO and
UNFPA will be required to submit quarterly and annual reports on the status of project activities
and annual work programs for the following year (with the corresponding budgets). These
reports and budgets will determine the funding allocation for the next year of project
implementation.



ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIOUE D'ANGOLA
PROJET SANTE
Rehabilitation d'environ 10 postes de santf dans la Province de Huila
1.          I1 a ete convenu lors de la mission d'evaluation que la rehabilitation d'environ 10
postes de sante serait confie I Medecins sans Frontieres-Espagne. L'ONG organisera et supervisera
la realisation des travaux, assurera le redemarrage de l'infrastructure et la formation sur place du
personnel de l'infrastructure r6habilite.
2.           Proggamm : sur la base des etudes preparatoires du consultant, il a ete decide que
le poste de santd type aurait une superficie totale de 110 m2 repartis suivant le programme
architectural annexe. Le nombre de pieces rehabilitees sera limitd au nombre de pieces necessaires
au fonctionnement d'un poste type I savoar: salle de soins et observations, bureau infirmiere, salle
de pediatrie vaccination, salle de consultation, dep6t pharmacie, aire d'attente exterieure couverte en
structure legere.
3.           Strategie pour la realisation des travaux: L'ONG passera des contrats avec des
entreprises locales de batiment pour realiser les travaux suivant des rbgles acceptables pour l'IDA et
supervisera la realisation des travaux. Une reception des travaux sera organisee conjointement avec
le bureau du projet. L'ONG mettra au point la liste type d'equipement et mobilier, et procedera en
collaboration avec le Bureau du Projet I la consultation internationale pour la fourniture de ces
dquipements. La reception des equipements sera faite conjointement avec le bureau du projet. La
procedure d'achat sera programmee de telle maniere que l'arrivee des equipements colncide avec la
fin des travaux.
4.           L'ONG mettra en place le personnel necessaire pour demarrer le fonctionnement de
ces postes de santE, former le personnel angolais en place et assurer le suivi du fonctionnement
pendant une annee.
5.           Le gouvernement s'engage: I mettre le personnel medical (3 personnes) dans chaque
poste de samE et maintenir l'affectation de l'equipe formee par l'ONG pendant la duree du projet.
Le Drojet financera: la rEhabilitation et l'equipement des postes de sante, le formation du personnel
et le suivi du fonctionnement. Ces ElEments feront partie de la convention signee entre le Gouverne-
ment et l'ONG.
6.           L'ONG se conformera au contrat type analyse pendant la mission d'evaluation,
notamment en matiere de rapport d'activite et d'audit des comptes.



ANNEX 3.5
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIQUE D'ANGOLA
PROJET SANTE
POSE DE SANTE TYPE
1.            Au cours de la mission d'evaluation la description du poste de sante type qui sera
construit dans le cadre du projet a ete arrete. II a etW convenu que la surface totale du poste serait de
110 m2 et que 10% de la valeur du poste serait affecte I la construction d'une aire couverte d'attente
en structure legbre et I l'installation d'un systbme de reserve d'eau avec pompe I main (dont une
supplementaire fournie en secours).
La surface des locaux s'dtablit comme suit:
- Salle de soins et observation        ...................... .20,00m2
- Bureau infirmibre                    ...................... .16,00 m2
- Salle de pediatrie vaccination       ...................... .20,00 m2
- Salle de consultation                 ...................... .16,0 m2
- Dep6t pharmacie                       ....................... 8,00 m2
- Circulation couverte                  ...................... .17,00 m2
- Total surface utle                   ...................... .97,00 m2
- Surface des murs (10 %)              ....................... 9,70m2
- Surface Hors Oeuvre                   ...................... .106,70m2
- Surface HO Sanitaires extErieurs   .   ...................... 3,30 m2
...................... 110,00m2
2.             L'equipement du poste a ete arrete I partir des listes preparees par le consultant et
comprend le mobilier et equipement necessaire pour: les consultations, les examens, les consultations
PMI, le bureau d'infirmier, une chambre d'observation et le stockage pharmacie.



ANNEX 3.5
Page 3 of 3
L'gquige type affectde au fonctionnement du poste sera la suivante:
- Infirmier
- Technicien.1
- Aide.1



ANNX 3. 6
Page 1 of 8
Programa9&o a organiza9&o
do Novo Instituto de Formaq&o em Saude, Lubango
1.          As necessidades em pessoal das quatro provinciasl a ser abrangidas
pelo novo Instituto de Formaglo em Sadde de Lubango, e a capacidade t6cnico-
financeira para absorver os graduados, determinam os programas de formagao e o
nulmero de alunos a ser admitidos em cada um dos programas.  0 quadro seguinte
resume as estimativos e propostas desenvolvidos nas discuseoes durante a Missao
de Avaliag&ao da propoota de projecto2, incorporando ajustamentos para perdas
antecipadas durante os cursos.   0 quadro nAo considera a necessidade de
formaq&o/reciclagem para pessoal actualmente em servigo, outro papel importante
do novo Instituto.
TIPO DE          PRODVQ  ENTRADA  FORMAVAO  ANOS           NUMERO DE ALUNOB4
PESSOAL          AO      ANUAL3   PREVIA    DO         ano   ano    ano    TO-
ANUAL                       CURSO      I     II    III    TAL
Quadrom de         20          24   120 ano     2     24     22             46
Administraglo                                                                   _
T6clcos           2C          30  12 ano       3     30     28      26     84
N6dios do                          (20)ou
Enf-rmagem                         Aux.Enf.
(10)
Auxiliares de      50          60   80 ano      2     60     55             115
Enferuagem
T6cnicos
Especialistas
Estomatologia    12           14  120 ano      3     14     13      12     39
Laborat6rio    10          12  120 ano       3     12     11      10     33
Farmacia    10          12  120 ano       3     12     11     10      33
Nutriglo     6           7   120 ano      3     7      6      6       19
Reabilitaq&o/     6            7   120 ano     3     7      6       6      19
Re-educaqao
TOTAL:    139        166               22    166    152    70       388
Alunos  Alunos              Anos-   ANO    ANo    ANO    Alun
a       admitid             curso   I       II      III    as
termin  os                                                 simu
ar      anualme                                            ltan
anualm  nte                                                eos
ente



ANNEX 3.6
Page 2 of 8
2.         Nas discuss5es entre Oa Directores e outros representantes do actual
Instituto Medio de Sadde de Lubango e da actual Escola Tecnica de Formaqao de
Sadde de Lubango, a Director do Projecto da Sadde, e a missAo da IDA para a
avaliag&o do projecto, surgia a proposta seguinte para a organizaglo
administrativa e pedagogica do novo Instituto de Formagla em Sadde, Lubango:
ORGANIGRAMA E ESQUEMA KATRICIAL PROPOSTO PARA
A ORGANIZACAO ADNINISTRATIVA B PEDAGOGICA
DO NOVO INSTITUTO DE FORMACAO EM SA(DE, LUBANGO
ORGANIGRANA
I            [ ~~~Director do Instituteg
Gabinete Tecnico
I(CiAncias pad gogicas
Sub-Director para a                 Sub-Director para o
Adainintragac                           Ensino
Todo o pessoal de             Todoe Oa Coordenadores dos cursos
administragio e de            (p.ex., Tecnicos M6dios de Enfer-
apoio logistico               magem, Quadros de Administraglao,
Tecnicos Especialistas) e. ao
mesmo nivel,todoe oe Coordenadores
de Mat6rias/T6nicos (p.ex., Admi-
nistragao/Gest&o, Ciencias Biome-
dicas Basicas, Conhecimentos e
Destrezas Clinicas, Estagios
Praticos)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--



ANNX 3.6
Page 3 of 8
ESQUEMA MA2IRCIAL DA ORGANIZA LO
DO INSTITUTO
Coordenadores dos cursom
(p.ex., dos cursos para a formagao de T6cnicos
M6dios de Enfermagem, de Quadros de Admini-
stragao, de Tecnicoe Especialistas)
Coordenadores de
Mat6rias/T6fticos
(p.ex., Admini-
stragao/Gestao,
Ciancias Bio-
medicas BAsicas,
Conhecimentos e
Destrezas Cli-
nicas, Est&igios
Pr&ticos)
3.          Existem varias quest8es  a esclarecer para a programagRo e a
organizagAo do Instituto:
*     Disponibilidade de professores adequados em termos de formagao,
experiGncia profissional, aptitude e interesse para o ensino
*     Disponibilidade de um administrador adequado para o Instituto
*     Capacidade  em  gestao/administragao  (geral  e  pedagogica)  dos
directores/coordenadores
*     Disponibilidade  e  interesse de ndimeros  suficientes  de  alunos
qualificadoe em cada uma das provincias abrangidas
*     Capacidade financeira/orgamentos provinciais para absorver o0 alunos
graduados do Instituto 9 para prover o apoio necessario para o bom
funcionamento deles nos postos de trabalho
*     Disponibilidade de sitios e de monitores adequados para os estagios
praticos dos alunos
*     Calendario de execuglo das reformas previstas nos programas e
instituig8es do Ministerio da Educagao
*     Necessidade de desenvolver um conjunto de tests adequados para a
identificagao o selecg&o de candidatoa para cada curso e para a
avaliagLo formativa e final do. conhecimentos e destrezas dos
alunos, durante e ao final dos cursos
*     Necessidade de desenvolver um programa de preparagao de candidatos
marginais para os exames de entrada ao Instituto
*     Necessidade   de   estimulos/incentivos   para   Os   directores,
coordenadores e outro pessoal do Instituto, para motivar a sua
participagao e o bom rendimonto



ANNEX 3.6
Page 4 of 8
[ANOTACOES]
1.    As quatro provincias a prover alunos e receber alunos graduados do
Instituto sao Huila, Cunene, Namibo e Kwando Kubango.
2.    Os consultores de SODETEG contratados pelo Ministerio da Sadde, durante a
preparaglo da proposta do Primeiro P:-jecto de Saide para um financiamento da IDA
(Associaglo para o Desenvolvimento 1 _ernacional - do Banco Mundial), estimaram
as necessidades anuais de formacao de pessoal novo para as quatro provincias a
ser servidas pelo novo Instituto de FormagLo em Saude, Lubango.   Tambem
propuseram antecedentes em termos de educagao previa e as durag6es dos cursos
para cada tipo de pessoal a ser formado no Instituto.   Foram ajustados o8
estimativos feitos pelos consultores,  nas discussoes durante a missao de
avaliag&o.
3.    Entrada Anual = Produgao Anual, maim 20% de ajustamento para perdas durante
o curso.
4.    0 ndmero de alunos diminua de ano em ano, por perdas.



aIx 3. 6
Page 5 of 8
REPUBLIQUN D'ANGOLA
Projet Sant6
Programmie Ic 1Ec.ol de Lubango
Lists dos locaux               Q      m2 utiles   Total    Totaux
1/ Administration
Direction
1.01 Bureau directour             1      18.00     18.00
1.02 Secr6tariat                  1      12.00     12.00
1.03 Directeur des Etudes         1      15.00     15.00
1.04 Secr6tariat                  1      12.00     12.00
1.05 Secr6tariat g6n6ral          1      15.00     15.00
1.06 Secr6tariat                   1     12.00     12.00
1.07 RUprographio                 1      15 00     15.00
1.08 Sanitaires                    1     1U000     10.00
109.00
Comptabil itl
1.09 Chef comptable               1      15.00     15.00
1.10 Comptabiliti                 1      20.00     20.00
1.11 Tr6sorerie-quichet           1      20.00     20.00      55.00
Services 4l1ves
1.12 Chef do service              1      15.00     15.00
1.13 Salle do service             1      15.00     15.00      30.00
Economat
1.14 Chef do service              1      15.00     15.00
1.15 Bureau                       1      15.00     15.00      30.00
Personnel
1.16 Chef do service              1      15.00     15.00
1.17 Secr6tariat                  1      15.00     15.00      30.00
Sanitaires
1.18 Sanitaires personnel         1      20.00     20.00      20.00
2/ Professeurs
2.01 Bureaux                       5     12.00     60.00
2.02 Salle d-.rtunion              1     45.00     45.00
2.03 Sanitaires                    1     12.00     12.00    117.00



AMNW3 6
Page 6 of 8
3/ Etudes
3.01 BibliothAque/Lecture        1    200.00    200.00
3.02 Reprographie                1     1S.00     15.00
3.03 Sanitaires                  1     20.00     20.00    235.00
4/ Enseignement
4.01 Salles de classe            9     60.00    540.00
4.02 Salle de clause             7     40.00    280.00
4.03 Salle polyvalente           1    200.00    200.00
4.04 Laboratoires                5     75.00    375.00
4.05 Sanitaires                  4     25.00    100.00  1,495.00
5/ Ataliers
S.01 Stomato                     1     S0.00     S0.00
5.01 Kn&sith6rapie              1     S0.00     50.00    100.00
6/ Restauration
6.01 Salle & manger              1    1S0.00    150.00
6.02 Cuisines                    1     50.00     S0.00
6.03 R6uerves                    1     30.00     30.00    230.00
7/ LOgaments
7.01 Internat ch. par 8         25     60.00  1,SCO.00
7.02 Logements professeurs       4    110.00    440.00  1,940.00
8/ Loqistique
8.01 Buanderie-nettoyage         1     50.00     50.00
8.02 Transformateur              1     15.00     15.00
8.03 G4n6rateur                  1     15.00     1S.00
8.04 Trait.ment eau              1     12.00     12.00     92.00
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Total surface utile on m2..................             4,483.00
Surface totale y compris murs (+ 10%) en m2...          4,931.30
___________________  - ---------------------------________- ________



Page 7 of a
REPUBLIQUE D'ANGOLA
Projet Sant&
Programme architectural Centre de Sant6 du campus
Lists des Locaux              Q      m2 utiles   Total    Totaux
----------------------------------------------------------------_
1/ P4diatrie
1.01 Salle vaccination            1     20.00     20.00
1.02 Salle soins-r6hydr.          1     20.00     20.00
1.03 Enr6gistrement               1     15.00     15.00
1.04 Salle consult. enfant        1     15.00     15.00
1.05 Bureau                       1     12.00     12.00      82.00
2/ Somns adulte-
2.01 Salle de consult.            1     15.00     15.00
2.02 Lits observation (4)         1     20.00     20.00      35.00
3/ Maternit6
3.01 Salle consultation           1     20.00     20.00
3.02 Salle de travail             1     15.00     15.00
3.03 Salle accouchemont           1     2S.00     25.00
3.04 Haternit& 6 lits             1     30.00     30.00
3.05 Bureau sage-fame             1     15.00     15.00    105.00
4/ Laboratoire
4.01 Salle labo                   1     30.00     30.00      30.00
5/ Radiologie
5.01 Salle radio                  1     25.00     25.00
5.02 Salle d6veloppement          1     10.00     10.00      35.00
6/ PharmaciL
6.01 Stockage                     1     20.00     20.00
6.02 Distribution                 1     10.00     10.00      30.00



a=XL 3 6
Page 8 of 8
7/ Stomato
7.01 Salle consultation             1      16.00      16.00      16.00
8/ Bureaux
8.01 Chef de centre                 1      15.00      15.00
8.02 M6decin                        1      15.00      15.00      30.00
9/ Divers
9.01 Zone attente                   1      30.00      30.00
9.02 Stockage mat. enseign          1      10.00      10.00
9.03 Sanitaires                     1      20.00      20.00
9.04 Salle r6union                  1      20.00      20.00      80.00
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Surface utile en m2                                             443.00
Surface hors oeuvre en m2(+30%)                                 S75.90
(y compris circulations int6rioures)
--------------------------------------------------- --------------



ANNEX 3.7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIOUE D'ANGOLA
PROJET SANTE
Rehabilitation de l'Hopital de Porto Amboim et de deux postes de sante
1.           11 a ete convenu que la rehabilitation de l'hopital et de deux postes de sante (kn
42 et Pinda) serait confie a l'Eglise Catholique d'Angola. L'ONG supervisera la realisation des
travaux et assurera la gestion, I'assistance technique et la formation du personnel de l'hopital et
des deux postes de sante.
2.             rogmme: Sur la base des etudes preparatoires du consultant, il a ete decide
d'ajouter un pavillon de 16 lits pour les contagieux, ce qui porte le programme k 619 m2 de
construction e: 1825 n2 de rehabilitation pour l'hopital; et de reconstruire les deux postes de sante
suivant le plan type mis au point durant la mission (110 m2).
3.            Strategie pour la rdalisation des travaux: L'architecte selectionne par le Bureau du
Projet procedera I l'elaboration du dossier d'etudes (plans d'execution, descriptifs, et quantitatifs)
qui servira de base ' la selection, par appel d'offre international, de l'entreprise qui sera chargEe
de la rEalisatior des travaux. Le bureau du projet procedera: (i) I l'elaboration du dossier d'appel
d'offres, sur la base des documents techniques fournis par l'architecte, selon les docuiments
standards acceptes par l'IDA, et (ii) I un appel d'offres pour realiser les travaux. Le controle
technique des travaux sera effectue par l'architecte selectionne par le projet, et le contrdle
financier (certification des ddpenses) par l'ingenieur du bureau du projet. L'eglise participera a la
programmation des travaux qui seront planifies de telle manibre que les activites de l'hopital ne
soient pas arretEes. Les travaux seront receptionnes conjointement par le bureau du projet et par
l'Eglise.
4.            Les listes d'equipement prEliminaires seront revues par l'Eglise et remises sous
leur forme definitive au bureau du projet pour lancement de l'appel d'offres. Cette procEdure
sera programmee afin que la livraison des equipements coincide avec la fin des travaux de
l'hopital.
5.            Dans le cadre de l'assistance technique mise en place par I'Eglise, cinq personnes
seront affectees pour la duree du projet: un directeur de clinique specialiste de sante publique, un
gestionnaire, un specialiste en approvisionnement et en gestion des stocks et deux infirmieres.
Les deux infirmibres travailleronri plein temps pendant la totalit6 de la duree du projet et les
trois autres specialistes auront une presence decroissante pendant l'execution du projet afin de
laisser de plus en plus de responsabilite  leur homologue respectif, qui devront etre autonomes I
la fin du projet.



ANEX 3.7
Page 2 of 3
6.            La formation du personnel sera assuree par I'assistance technique au cours de leur
travail quotidien et il sera fait appel I des consultants locaux pour animer des sessions de
formation sp6cifiques sur place dans les domaines de la gynecologie, de la pediatrie et de la petite
chirurgie.
7.            Le eouvernement s'engage: I mettre en place le personnel n6cessaire au bon
fonctionnement de I'hopital rehabilite (110 personnes), des deux postes de sante (6 personnes), et
I financer le nouveau budget de l'hopital (salaires, m6dicaments, nourriture...). Le Proiet
financera: la construction et la rehabilitation des infrastructures, le mobilier et l'equipement
medical, I'assistance technique, la formation, les vehicules, divers livres et materiels p6dagogi-
ques, et les coOts de fonctionnement des vehicules. L'ONG se conformera au contrat type analyse
pendant la mission d'dvaluation en matiere de rapports d'activites et d'audits des comptes.



ANNEX 3.7
Page 3 of 3
ProkTamme architectural pour la rehabilitation de l'h6pitaldPorto-Amboim
Liste des locaux                Qm2 HO                    Tota          Totaux
A. Renovations
A. 1 Consultation externe       1                169
A.2 Services generaux           1                160
A.3 Morgue                      1                 57
A.4 Admin., labo, consult.      1                435
A.5 Bloc operatoire, hosp.      1                610
A.6 Stockage, vestiaires        1                 86
A.7 Hospitalisation             1                308         1825
B. Construction
B.1 Cuisines                    1                120
B.2 Maternite                   1                100
B.3 Radio-pharmacie             1                144
B.4 Laboratoire                  1               150
B.5 Contagieux                   1               105          619
Total surface construction-rEhabilitation: 2444 m=



AKGOSA
First Welth Project
Project Cost Estimates
Tcbl 10. Insitutloalt Devteplt
Detailed Cost Table
Quantity                 Unit Cost                          lase Costs In 1US
at   02   03   04   OS totat           1.05           01        02       0s        04        05    Total
i. IUVESTEUIT COSTS
A:................
A. Vehicls
FM                           2    0    0    0    0    2            30000        60000        0         0         0         0    60000
S. equlpant N  funiture
C    utera                   7    0      0     0    0    7         10000        70000        0         0         0         0    70M00
Fox                          I    0    0    0    0         1        1000         1000        0         0         0         0      1000
Telaal                      I    0      0    0    0       1        3000         3000        0         0         0         0      3000
laledo                       1    0      0    0    0       1       am00         60000        0         0         0         0    60000
Furnitwr                         .    -            -    -            -         20000        0         0         0         0    20000
Photaopie                    2    0    0    0    0    2            10000        20000         0        0         0         0    20000
. ........ ............~~~~~~~~~~~~....  ,..... .............. ..... -..... -. . ....... ......... .......
Sb-lota                                                                         10             0        0         0         0    1
C. INTL Technical Assstuic
Project  lwnlstrator        12   12   12   12   12   60            12500       150000   150000   150000   150         15W000   750000
STTALsIi:hfngworkslup        1    0    0    0    0         1       18000        160          0         0         0         0     1600
ST Prowuement  cliollat    3    3    0    0    0    6              16000        S4000    54000         0         0         0    10600
lntit. Strwoth. 2 LITA      24   24   24   24   24  120            12500      300000   300000   300000  .300000   300000  1500000
Iowatment Studie -s                        -    -         -                    500o0    50000    50000    50000    50000   250000
Nld-tem review               0    0    4       0    0    4          6000            0         0    72000         0         0    72000
Audi                                     t I         1    5        20000        20000    20000    20000    20000    20000    100000
.....~~~~.... . ......... ......... .............. .... .... .... ....
Sah-Totml                                                                       59Z000   574000   592000   520000          520000  2796000
t- Training
wealth Plrning for PNC       0     2    0    0    0    2           40000          .0     80000         0         0         0    80000
Nealth Ecot-Alcs/Finan       0    2    0    0    0    2            40000            0    80000         0         0         0    60000
Nmt of Nospital Systm        0    2    0    0    0    2            4000             0    80000         0         0         0    mm000
j ._ .......~~~~~~~~......... ......... .... ......  ......... ............ ......... .... 
ab-Total                                                                             0    240000        0         0         0   240000
E. LOCAL Technical Assist.
Enginer                     12   12   12   12   12   60             2000        24000    24000    24000    24000    24000   120000
AIcoumtnt                   24   24   24   24   24  120             200         4800     48000    48         4800      48000   240000
Proumnt Speilist             12   12   12   12   12   60            2000        24000    24000    24000    24000    24000   120000
Awinistretor/Secr.twry      24   24   24   24   24  120             1000        24000    24000    24000    24000    24000   120000
ISupport                    36   36   36   36   36   180            1000        36000    36000    36000    36000    36000   160000
Sub-Total                                                                       156000    156000   156000   156000    15600   70000
Total INVESTNEET COStS                                                                1002000   97000     74000   676000   676000  4072000
II. RECURREIt COSTS
............... ,
A. operating Costs               -     -    -    -                                   40000    40000    40000    40000    40000   200000                 II
S. Vehicle Oper. & Nalnt.                                                                                                                               as
Sedan                       -     -    -            .    .                       3750     3750      3750      3750      3750   1t750
FWU D                             -     -    -    .    -                        15000    15000    15Q00      15000    1'DQ       75000



Su-Total                                                                          18750     18750    18750    18750       18750     93750
C. Computer Naintnance-                       -                 -           -m0                  7000      70001    7000       70       35800
D. Tra wl Local Staff                         -     -                                  2000      2000      2000      2000      2000     10000
E. Trml Intl. Staff               24    24   24   24    24   120           700       1t800    16800       16800    16800      1680      84000
F. Local Srlerle
Project Director             12   12   12    12    12   60            200         2400      2400      2400      2400      2400     12800
Secretary                    12   12   12   12   12   60              100         1200      1200      1200      1200      1200      6000
Sub-Total                                                                          3600      3600      7'w       3600      3600     1OO0
;...... .......... ...... ........... .. _ ............ ......... .............. ......... ......... ....
Total REC5 RT CO1STS                                                                     98150    88150    881S0    88150        88150    440750
suuuans"   amuuu.muanaua amaaauuu  mu"a3muu  333333mom
Total                                                                               1090150   105810   836150   7641S0   764150   4S12750
5/29/19M2 4sS0



MGOLA
First Health Project
Project cost Esttimtes
Table 20. National AIDS ond Fa ily Pluming Progra_
Detailed Cost Table
S'S
_un tity                  Uhit Cost                          lOse Costs In SUS
01    02    03    04    05 Tota1        1-05           01        OZ        03       04        05      Total
1. IIWSTNWT COSTS
................................ 
A. Trianing AIDS
Slminor-30 Educ. trainer     *    *                        -.                    26000         0         0         0         0     26000
5. Eqaip ntifterials AID0
6x  rodlio 1, TV 1pot     -                                                               w                     00               50
Pu. -rtict  1In pr           - s-                                                10000     10000    10000    10000    10000        SO50Q
Sex Edu.  awnuel                   -                 -    -                      15000         0         0         0         0     15000
World AIDS ooy                     -           -           -           -          3000      3000      3000      3000      3000     15000
c,rdm                              -     *           -                           175000    75000     75000    75000    75000   375000
AIDS Adv. CaIgn                                                                 10000     10000     10000    10000    10000       50000
Sub-Total                                                                        113000    1W0000               98000    96000    510000
C. KAP Studles AIDs
naeoalt                      -        -     -     -        -                      2500         0         0         0         0      2500
Vlp                          .    .      .     .     .    .                          0      2500         0         0         0       500
Nauige                             -                                                 0         0      2500      ,0           0      2500
Zaire                                                   -        -                   0         0         0      2500         0      2500
Lumsd                        .                                                       0         0         0         0     2500       2500
Sub-Total                                                                          2500      2500                2500                12500
Q. Tedihncal AssituweA IDS         5   0       0     5     0    10       18000        90000         0         0    90000          0    10000
E. Equipment FP/NON
'HCNUP ServiCe FCIlitis    - n-                        -    -            -         30000  . 100000    m0000          0        0    210000
Audio visual Equpuipnt       *     *    -      -     -     .                         0     10000    10000          0         0     20000
Sib-Totat                                                                         30000    110000    90000          0         0   230000
F. Training FP/NON
Prow. persmi  nase-                                                                  0     1000      40000    40000          0     90000
6. Toch. AsItance fP/HOP
Pop. & F  Policy              1    3      3     0     0    7        18ao0        18000    54000    50              0              lm 126000
11 Training FP/HOP
Seminr an Pop. & FP         0-                                                             -  0  50000   0         0         0    S0000
Tech. act. Pop./FP Policy    -     -                                                       l m -    -  0 O o100  10000  5000  0    25000
Sub-Total             ,                                                               0    60000      10000      5000         0     75000
................................. ............. ......... I............. .........  .............. .........
lotat INWSTIEUT COSTS                                                                   279500    339500   294500   235500   100500   1249500
total                                                                                279500    339500    294500   235500   100500   1249500
.29/. 992 9:50                                                                                                                                                II



ANGOLA
First Health Project
Project Cost Estimtes
Table 30. Itehabilitation & Upgrsding of Health School -    ul,o
DOtai led Cost Toble
Wis
usntity                      Unit Cost                           Esse Costs in SOX
01     02     03     04      OS Total         1-05           01         02        03        04         05     Total
....................................................................................... ......... ..............   ............................................................
1. IMVEST6EET COSTS
.. .   ............... .
A. Ecole ds Cadre
Civil Works                     0   2500   2500      0       0   5000         700             0   1750000   1750000         0          0   3500000
VWD                            *      -      -       -                                        0    17h000    175000         0          0    350000
Sub-Totat                                                                                      0   1925000   1925000         0         0   3850000
1. Centre de Snte du Caps
. Construction                    0      6    2         0      0    576          700            0    201600   201600           0         0    403200
C. Thfoco
Rehfalitation                   0     60     60      0       0    120         300             0     16000     18000         0          0     36000
D. Cm awbea1
Costruction                     0     55     SS      0       0    110         700             0     38500     36500         0         0      77000
E. Padistris
hIabltation                   -      -              -             -                          0    100000    100000         0          0    200000
F. Centre de Naintwnen
Construction                    0    142    142       0      0    264         700             0     99400     99400         0          0    19600
. low. of Exis. eath Ctr                           -0                                                    50000         0         0          0     50000
N. Equlpment
Ecole de Cadres                                      -      *                  -              0         0    600000-        0          0    600000
NsAbb                                                                                         0   -  -  O  0  20000         0         0      20000
Thloco                                *                     -        *                        0         0     20000         0         0      20000
Centre de fint     c                  *              -      -      -           -              0         0     60000         0          0     60000
Cops Heslth Center                                                 *                          0         0    300000         0          0    3000O
Pedlatrle Ceter                -0                                                                       0     50000         0          0     50000
'Euisting Nlalth Center                        *         -                                    0         0      500-          0         0     50000
... ..s.......... .... ...... ......... .......... ......... .......... .........
Sub-Total                                                                                      0         0   1100000         0         0   1100000
1. Vehicles
FWD                             2      0      0      0      0       2       30000        60000          0         0         0         0     60000
N;nibus                         2      0      0      0       0      2       50000        100000         0         0         0         0    100000
SWedn                           I      C      0      0       0      1       1S000        15000          0         0         0         0      1SO0
.........  ............. .........  .............. .........  ............. .............. ...................
Sub-Tottl                                                                                 17S000         0         0         0         0    175000
J. Technical Assistance
LTTA for School                12     12     12     12      12    60        12500       150000    150000    1S000      150000    150000    750000
ItTA  iomedical Spec.           0     12      0      0       0     12       12500            0    150000          0         0         0    150000
STTA Career Specilist           0      2      0      0       0      2       1000            0      36000         0         0         0      36000
STTA Pedagglcal Program         0      0      2      0       0      2       16o00            0          0     36000         0         0      36000
SlIA Profesor Evslustion        0      0      2      0       0      2       18000            0          0     36000         0         0     36000
St A Profesor Training          5      I      7      7       7     36       18000       14OO    126000    160         126000    126000   648000
Architectural Fees                    -          -      -      -               -             0    159000    159000          0         0    318000
.... .....  .... ...... ..... ...... ...  . ........  ............. ........ .........  .. ,.,,
Sub-lotal                                                                                294000    621000    507000    276000    276000   197400 JW
K. Training 
Training Abr. helmed. Eng             -      -      -          -                             0      43000         0         0         0     43000             a
Seminars                          -       -         -       -      -           -          3500       3500      3500         0         0     10500
0ocusentation Fund                 -      -          -      -            -               40000      40000     40000     40000     40000    200000
Trng. Abr. School Direct.             -             -              -                      7500          0         0         0         0      7500



Trn. Abr. Studies Dir.                                                                   7500         0         0         0          0      7500
5mb-Total                                                                                56500     66500    43500      40000      40000    26JS00
Total INVESTMEX T COSTS                                                                        S27500  3140000  4033000   316000   316000  033Z500
11. REORRET OO~ST
................
A. Vehicle oper. & Naint.
NInibu-  *  -                                       *      .                  -         a20       250       20         2         2500     125000
FM                                   -                     -      -                     15000     15000     15000     15000      15000     75000
Sedbn                         -          *          -      -                  -          3750      3750      3750      3750       3750     I6750
SURk-Tatel,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ...................................................----
mb-Total 4o750                                                                                      3750     43750     43750      43750    218750
U. 0piat1in Costs
School                        -       *      -                    -                     24000    24000    24000    24000    24000    120000
e ntre dc Ksanten             *       -                    -                  -         12000     12000     12000     12000      12000     60000
It-oa                                                                                 ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... .........
5mb-Total                                                                                36000     36000    36000    36000        36000    160000
Total f?UEOU?OT OOST0                                                                                                                    7.75     396750
lotat                                                                        wm~~~ mazzmum   mm.  mum  mm      -~  mmuinon
Total                                                                                       607250  3219750   4112750    395750    395750   873125
S12A/992 9sS0



ACOU
First Neolth Project
Project Cost Estistes
Table 40. Hullo Provfnce - Meath Centers/Posts
Oetal1ed Cost Table
'US
Qntity                    Unit Cost                      Dase Costs In 31
01    02    03    04    05 Total        1-05          01       02       03      04        or,   Total
....................................................................... ......... ..............   ......................................................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. P heb. health Ctrs.            0    3      3     3     1    10       45000           0   135000  135000  135000   45000  450000
0. Equipment Nith Ctrs.           0    3      3     3     1   10        20000           0    60000   60000   60000   20000  200000
C. LIaunchbirFollow-up TINS       0    3      3     3     1   10        10000           0   30000   30000   30000    10000  100000
Total IIVESTHENT CSTS                                                                      0  225000  225000  225000    75000  750000
me." mm   mm. ma ma. mmmm
ToItol                                                                                  0   225000  225000  225000    75000  750000
5/29/1992 9t50
.  -
U f



ANGOLA
First Nealth Project
Project Cost Estimtes
Table 50. Porto Aiboln Hospital
Detaeled Cost Table
SWS
*Mt f ty                    Unit Cost                          lose Costs In SUS
01    02    03    04    05 Total            1 05           01        02       03        04        05     Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Porto A,ibb    Hlospitel
EhatbfItatimn               0   900   900        0      0   1800         300            0   270000   270000          0         0   S40000
Conatuctoln                 0      0   620       0      0   620          700            0        0   434000          0         0  434000
Extel t     abititatin     -      *             *        -0                                      0    45000          0         0    4S500
Sub-Total                                                                                0   210000   749000          0         0   1019000
S. PIMA Helth Post
Contructlon                 0    55    S5        0      0    110         700            0    36500    38M00          0         0     770JO
VD    .                .       -         .      .      .      .           .            0        -          0         0         0     am
.........  ............. .........  .............. .........  ................................. .................. .
SubTotal                                                                                 0    46500    38500          0         0    85000
C. Health Post KN 4T
Comtruction                 0    55    SS        0      0    110         700            0    35500    38500          0         0    77000
V.    '                    -  -          -      -             -           -            0      8000.        0         0         0     a000
. ........ ............. ....... ............. .............................. .............. ......... .............. ......... .............. 
Sib-Totol                                                                               0    46S00    38500           0         0    85000
0. Equipmant
Porto Ao-im                                  -                -                         0        0   650000  *       0         0   650000
pied-                                           *                                      0         0    20000          0         0    20000
i 47                                                                                             a    2 -  -  0 0    2000  0   0    20000
Sub-Total                                                                               0         0   690000          0         0    690000
. FW                           1     0      0      1      C      2       30000        30000         0        0    30000          0    60000
Abulmnce                    0      1      0      0      0      1       50000           '0    50000         0         0         0    50000
Sib-Total                                                                           30000    50000          0    30000          0    110000
F. Training
ynecology                  3      0      0      0      0      3        1500        4500         0         0         0         0      4500
Pediatrfcs                  1      1      1      0      0      3        1500         1500     1500      1500         0         0      4500
Surwry                      4      3.    3       0      0    10'    1500            6000      4500      4500         0         0     15000
Sub-Total                                                                            12000     6000      6000         0         0     24000
G. Technical Assistance
Clinical Oirector          12    12    11        0      0    35         3000        36000    36000    33000          0         0    105000
pitatl anger               12    12    12        9      0    45         3500       42000    42000    42000    31500            0    157500
Stock Technician           12    12    12    12         2    SO         2000       24000    24000    24000    24000         4000    100000
nurses                     24    24    24    24    24   120              S00       12000    12000    12000    12000    12000    60000
114000   114000    111000    67500    16000   422500
total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                    156000   533000   1633000    97500    16000  2435500               El
11. RECURRENT COSTS 
,...............
A. Operating Costs
Porto Aibo i



3. Vehicle Oper. & Naint.
FiD                                -      -      *      -      --                     7500      7500      7500    15000    15000       52500
Ambuic a                               -      -                                          0 -  -  0  12500    12500    12500  12500    50000
......... ......... ......... ......... ......... .........
Sub-totel                                                                              7500    20000    20000    27500        2500    102500
Total RECUREIT COSTS                                                                         E2500    95000    95000   102500    102500   477500
Tot_      - .--  _ _a *ua _-.. .._- 
Total            z                                                                       238500   626000   1728000   200000    118500  2913000
5IZ9/1992 9:51
Go



Page, I 0
REPUBLOU DDANGOYA
PROLET SANTE
Activitds du Projet           I 1993   1994   1995          1996     1997     1998
Mid-Term
1. RENFORCEMENT INSTITU1IONNEL                               Review
1.1. Recrutement assistance technique          X
1.2. Installation unitd du projet              X        X      X          X         X
1.3. Etudes de preinvestissement:
- Sdlection des themes                                     X
- Execution des etudes                                                           X
1.4. Evaluation Formation local senior staff   X       X       X          X         X
1.5. Evaluation assistance technique           X       X       X          X         X
2. REHABILITATION
2.1. Support programmes nationaux
Sida:
- Semmaires formateurs                      X       X      X           X         X
- Etudes KAP (5 regions)                    X
IEC:
- Publication articles, campagne            X       X       X          X         X
de publicite
- Publication manuel d'6ducation            X
sexuelle
- Equipement IEC                                    X
- Distribution de condoms                   X       X       X          X         X
PF:
- Seminaires de formation                   X       X       X
- Equipement audio-visuel                                   X
- SEminare population                       X



ANNEX 3.9
Page 2 of 2
LIE DES INDICATEURS D AC11T              (suite)
Activites du Projet             1993   1994    1995         1996     1997      1998
2. REHABILTATION (suite)                                     Mid-Term
Review
2.2. Postes de sante Huila (estimation)
- Convention avec ONG                      X
- REhabilitation physique et                       3       3          3         1
mise en fonctionnement
2.3. Lubango
Ecole, centre de sante du campus:
- Convention de jumelage                    X
- Construction/Equipement                                  X
- Mise en fonctionnement                                    X
- Recrutement annuel                                       166         166      166      166
- Nombre de dipl8mes                                                   139      139      139
Centre de maintenance:
- Construction et mise en fonctionnement                   X
P6diatrie:
- RenovationwEquipement                                     X
Postes Nabambe et Thioco:
- Renovation et mise en fonctionnement                      X
2.4. Porto Amboim (h8pital et 2 postes)
- Convention ONG                            X
- Renovation/construction/equipement                        X
- Mise en fonctionnement (100 lits)
.~                                                                 



Page 1 of 2
,REPUBLIC OF ANQ;OL
] nIONSUIMARY
1.    Ban Supervision inpgt.
Regular supervision needs are described in table I below. In addition, specific tasks such
as review of progress reports, prorement and disbiusement actions, audit review, etc... are
estimate to require an average of twelve staff weelm of various specialists inputs per annum.
2.      owes's contrbution to supision.
(a) Progress reports will be submitted on a quaterly basis, according to the smdard
progress report discussed with PIU durin appraisal. Th. PIU wiUl colect inputs from each
responsible head of componen and prepare the reports which will be reviewed an approuved
by the Minister of Health before sendig them to DA.
(b) Once a year, a joint Government/IDA mission would be undertaken to review the
draft investment and recurrent MOB budgets to ensure the application and financing of the MOH
policy; in addition, and by May 31, 1995 at the latest, a Govanment/DA mid-tem review
would be undertaken to asse  progress in achievn the project development objectives; to
facilitate this review, tie Government will prepare by April 15, 1995 at the late, a mid-term
project review document to be furnished, four week prior to the review, to IDA and all the
departments and agencies involved in project irnplemention
(c) Ihe PIU wiU be responsible for wordiatg arrangements for IDA sevision
missions and for providing information to them
(d) Missiou briefing and wrap up meetinp will be chaired by the Miniser of Health and,
in his/her absence, by the Director of Planing Deparen and wil include aU heads of
departn  and agencies concerned.



Pog 2 of 2
MDA suagybba mhh.d Input Into key acdvldm
02193                   Roview of condiWion of           Hamf Spoiuliu                                4
effoativaacg                    _mplanaaion SpciaLI
0693                    Fag S upeuisioo                  Hoh  Spoiuist                                 10
Impk.maaon SpeolaL/
A;l
/93                     Supaviuion                       Mon& m Spoialit                              2
05/94                   Sup.via                          Huakh Spcs                                    S
Rsviw PI/PEP                    Imp1mnmaon Sp.iL
11/94                   SuPavion                                  _Sp                                 4
-  eaki Speacial
05/95                   Mid -mnm                          Huh Eoomnin                                  10
Supc;vuia                        Health Speci"t
Review PIP/PEP                   Magmumt Speil
-_ S                 pmAnki
11/95                   Supuvio                                      spsoieat                         2
05/96                   SupeWiv                           Heat Speoie                                 4
aam=mp a Sp.ciudii
11/96                   Supmuo                           HO& Spe4iM                                    6
Review P IPAPD                   HEat l3ooeo.0t
Imleug Spa  ilAoiWA
05/97                    SupAo                                     peuit                               2
11/97                   C      _mpian                  -. Heal Speoo i *                               10
1_E_an Spoe"
- -_
_Spoo mm



ANE 3. 11
REPMBLIC OF AIOOLA                     Page 1 of 4
FIRST HEALTH PROJWCT
IMPLZENNTATION SCOHEDULX BY COMPONENT
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-------
1 1993   1 1994   1 1995   1 1996   1 1997   1
11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 1
I        I         I         I         I         I
1/INSTITUTIONNAL STRENGTHENING    I         1                  I 1       1         1
I        I         I         I         1         1
Vehicles                          Ixxxxuxxxxl         I         1        1
Equipment                         Ixxxxxxxxxl                   1        1 
Intern. Technical Assistance      I                   I         1        I         1
Project Administ.              1                                     xxxxxxxxxxx 
Lauching Workshop              I xx      I         I         I         I        I
Procurement specialist         I xx      I xx      I         1         1
Instit. Strengthening (2)      1           ---------------xxxx               xxxl
Investment Studies             I xxx   I xxxx   I xxxx   I xxxx   I xxxx   I
Kid-term review                I         I         I xx      1         1        I
Audit                          1 xx      I xx      I xx        xx        xx
Local Technical Assistance                   1       1         1        1         1
Engineer                               I                                 xl
Accountant                     1                                   x-xxxxxxx-xxxl
Procuremnt Specialist          1                                       xxx=oxxxxl
Administrator/Secretary        I 1
Support                   I       x xxxxx--x--x-xx---xXxxxxxxxxxxl 
Training                          1         1         1         1        1         1
Health Planning                I         I      xuxxxxxx    1         1         I
Health Economics               I         I         I     x"-xx-x    1           I
Management Hospitals                     I      xxxxxxxr     I         I        I
I        I         I         I         1         1
2/ REHABILITATION                 I         I         I         1         I        I
2.1./Aids/FP Programs             1         1         1         1          
Training AIDS                     I xxxx   I          1         1         1        1
Equipment/Materials AIDS                    I         1         1         1 I
Equipment radio & TV spots     I         I xx      I         I         I        I
Articles in press              I Xs      I xz      I xx      I xx      I xx     I
Sex. Educ. Maual               I   xx   1          1         1         I        I
World AIDS Day                 I    -x  I       x  I      x  I     x  I      x  I
Condom                         I   xx   I   xx   I   xx   I   xx   1   xx   I
AIDS Adv. Campiga                     xx           I      xx I     xx I      xx I
XAP Studles AIDS                  I         I         I         I         I        I
Benguela                       1 xx      I         I         1                  I
Vigo                           I         Ixx                1         1         I
Malange                        I                   I xx      I         I         I
Zaire                          I         I         .         Ixx 
Luanda.                                  I         I         I         I xx      I



AWY3. 1
Page 2 of 4
RtPVBLIC Or ANGOLA
FIRST HEALTH PROJtCT
IMPLMENTATION SCHEDULE BY COMPONENT
1 1993   1 1994   1 1995   1 1996   1 1997   1
I  f - ---------I-----I-- -----I-------- I
l: 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-------
I         I         I         I         I          I
Technical Assistance AIDS           Ixxxxxxxxxl         I         lxxxxxxxxxl
Equipment FP/MOH                    II                            I         I 
NMC/PP Service Facilities        I   xxxx I   xxxx I   xxxx I             I
Audiovisual Equipment                      I I xx    I xx      I          I         I
Training FP/MOH                     I         I    I              I          II
Nurses                                     I I   xxxxxxxxxxxxuxxxxxxxx              l
Technical Assistance FP/MOP         I    I         I         I               I         I
Pop. &  P Policy                 I   xxxxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxl               I         I
         1         1    ~    1
Training FP/MOP                               I         I         I          1         I
Seminar on Pop. & FP             I         I   xx   I     I         I               I
Tech. act. Pop/FP policy         I         I xx      I xx      I xx       I         I
I         I         I         I         I          l
2.2./Huila Health Posts             I         I         I         I I                  J
Rehabilitation                      I      --1-    - ----    - -- ------------I-I
Equipment                           I         lIx       Ix=       I  xx    I
Training & Follow-up                I         I               ------------   xxx-
2.3./Lubarzgo                       I         I         I         I         I
Architectural Drawings              lxxxxxxxxxl                   I I        I
Civil Works                         I         '         1         1          1         I
Health School                    1         1                 --- x-xxoxxxxx I-I
Health Center                    I         I   xxzxxxxz        I          I
Health Posts                               I   xxxxxI          I          I         I
Podiatric Center                 I         I   xxxx            I                    I 
Maintenance Center               I         I   xxxxxl          I          I         I
Existing Health Center           I         I   xxxxx          I          I
I         I    *                        II
Equiyments                          I      t            ixxxxxxxxxxxx        I  
Vehicles                                    x I         I               I         I
Technlcal Ansistance                I         I         I          I         I         I
Long term TA                     I                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Biomedical                       I         lzxxx-xxxxl         I          I         I
Carer SpecLalist                 I         I xx      I         I          I         I
PedagogLcal Program              I         I         I   xx   I           I         I



ANNE 3.LL
Page 3 of 4
REPDLWC OF ANGOLA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE BY COMPONENT
1 1993   1 1994   1  1995   1 1996   1 1997   1
-------I---------- I            --------I------
11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 1
------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-------
Evaluation                       I          I         I   xx   I           I          I
Tralnlng                         I   xxx  I   xxx  I   xxxx I   xxxx I   xxxx I
Trainlng                            I          I         I          I         I          I
Diomedicals                      I       xx     -    1           l         I          I
seminars                                z  I       x  I      x  I          I
Documentation Fund               I           -xx--xx-x-l         I         I
School Director                  I    x   I           I          I         I          I
Studies Dlrector                         x s I        I          I         I          I
2.4./Porto AmboLm                   I          I         I          I         I
Civil Works                         I          I         I'         I         I          I
Hospital                         I          Ix--xx-01xI1xxzx     I    I               I
Health Posts                     I          I   xxxxxlxx         I         I          I
Equipment                           I          I      xxx ixxxxx    I         I          I
I         I         I          I         l     
Vehicles                            I   xx   I           I          I         I          I
Training                            I          !         I          I
Gynecology                       I   x    I   x    I   x    I              I         I
Pediatrics                       I      x  I       x  I      s  I                   I
surgery                          I xx       * xx      lxx                  1
surg ry                 ~~~I xx    I xs       I x       I          I         I
Technical Assistance                I          I         I          I         I          1
Clinlcal Director                I  WWW wI                                 I          I
Hospital Manager          I                   I                                       1
Stock TechnLcian                 I                                                    I
Nursoe                           I



NNY3.11
Page 4 of 4
ANGOLA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECr
(USS million)
QUA~~~TER  ~~ISBURSEMBNU                                    (PERCSBUkEDT
,.   'i.     :..- . i. ... ['..__
Sepwbn 30, 1M                                  0.s                       0               .         4_l
Deceaberl, 1993 I0.                                                      1.6                       4
Match31, 1994                                  0._                       2.4                       4
Jun 30. 1994                                   1.0_ 3.4                                            5
5*mber3, 1994                                  1.4                       4.8                       7
D.oanher1. 1994                                1.4                       62                        7
March 31, 1995                                 1.4                       7.6                       7
Jun  -0                -                       1.2            T.1                                  7
Sq_ tba3   30, 1995                            2.0                      11.1                      10
Dcembe 31, 1995                                2.1                      13.2                       10
March 31, 1996                                 1.9                      15.1                       9
Jun. 30, 1996                                  1.7                       16.8           18
Se_tmbe 30, 1996                               0.7                      17.5                       3
Dooember3l, 1996                               0X                       18.0                       2
March 31, 1997                                 0.3                       11.3 
June30, 1997                                   03                        18.6                      1
Sep_mber 30, 1997                              0.5 9.1                                            2
Deo_nm31, 1997                                 05                        19.6                      2
Mrch31 1998-                                  0.4                      20.0                       2
Jue 30, 19  CLOSING DATE                       0.2                      20.2 



