.~ te--lf"
CREDIT NUMBER 2490 ANG
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2490 ANG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        o9uq      '      , 1993, between the
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (the Borro*er) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B)   the Association has received a Health Policy Statement
(the Policy Statement) dated December 15, 1992, from the Borrower
describing its policies in the Health Sector and its commitment to
the implementation of such policies.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitutes an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(b)   "PIU" means Project Implementation Unit established
within MOH's Planning Department pursuant to Despacho No. 56/H/92
dated September 9, 1992, issued by the Minister of Health of the
Borrower;
(c)   "NFPP" means the Borrower's National Family Planning
Program;


﻿-2-
(d)   "PNLS" means the Borrower's National AIDS Control
Program;
(e)   "UNFPA" means the United Nations Fund for Population
Activities;
(f)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(g)    "Health Post" means basic public health services unit
at the local level;
(h)   "Health Center" means basic public health services unit
at the municipal level;
(i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)   "Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements
entered into between the Borrower and government or private
institutions selected to carry out, on its behalf, certain Parts of
the Project and described under Part C of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(k)   "DGMC/KZ" means Direcdo Geral das Miss6es Cat6licas do
Kwanza Sul;
(1)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association pursuant to an
exchange o  letters between the Borrower and the Association dated
September 19, 1989, and September 25, 1989;
(m)   "fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31; and
(n)   "Project  Performance  Key  Indicators" means   those
indicators designed to measure the Borrower's performance in
achieving Project objectives agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million   two    hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 14,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions cf
Sehedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a, The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on -he principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at-a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(b)   The commitment charge shall ac-true: (i) from the date
sixt7i days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outsteading from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2003 and ending March 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2013, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof.by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each


﻿-5-
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
health, administrative and financial practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through PIU, shall: (a) open an
account in dollars, or such other currency as may be acceptable to
the Association, in a commercial bank (the Project Account), on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (b) make an
initial deposit into such account, in dollars, or such other
currency as may be acceptable to the Association, in an amount
equivalent to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000); and
(c) maintain the Project Account throughout Project implementation,
and deposit every four months, into said account, such amounts in
dollars, or such other currency as may be acceptable to the
Association, as shall be required to timely replenish the Project
Account and ensure continuous availability of funds corresponding to
the Borrower's contribution to the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall:
(i)   not later than October 31 of each year, until the
completion of the Project, conduct an annual
review to: (A) assess progress achieved in
Project implementation in compliance with Project
objectives and the Performance Key Indicators;
(B) monitor state of maintenance of buildings
constructed or rehabilitated under the Project;
and (C) assess the results of training programs
carried out during the previous year and discuss
and agree on the training programs for the
forthcoming year; and
(ii)   not later than October 31, 1995, conduct a mid-
term review to: (A) monitor degree of compliance
with Project objectives and Performance Key
Indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association; (B) review, and adjust, if
necessary,   the  description  of   the  Project
provided in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(C) assess  the   performance  of   consultants'
services contracted by the Borrower under the
Project; (D) monitor availability of funds in the
Project Account referred to in Section 3.03 of
this   Agreement;   (E)  review   staffing   and
qualification   of   Project  management   staff
rsierred to under Part A of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and (F) review the Policy Statement.


﻿-7-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   not later than July 31 of each year, until the
completion of the Project, furnish to the
Association, for itr -eview and comments, a
report in such detai   as the Association shall
reasonably request, 3ucluding an evaluation of
progress achieved in carrying out the Project;
and
(ii)   promptly after carrying out the reviews described
in (a) above, carry out the recommendations of
said reviews as agreed between the Borrower and
the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the
Project: (a) maintain with functions, responsibilities, experience,
qualifications  and  terms   of  reference  satisfactory  to  the
Association, the staff responsible for Project Implementation as set
forth in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (b) take all
necessary measures to make available housing, office space, and
transportation to consultants employed under the Project; and
(c) take all necessary legal and administrativqe measures to ensure
that staff having received training financed under the Project would
provide a formal commitment to full-time working, upon return, for
the respective government agency or institution for a period
equivalent, at least, to twice that of the training.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1994, furnish to the Association a document defining the role of
demobilized army staff in the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall submit to the Association for
review and comments: (a) not later than October 31 of each year, the
draft annual recurrent budget for the health sector for the upcoming
calendar year; and (b) not later than October 31, 1994, the draft
investment plan for the health sector for the period 1995-1999.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year,
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at    least one year    after  the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿-9-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records   and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which make it improbable that the Borrower, MOH or PIU, as the case
may be, will be able to perform any of their obligations under this
Agreement or any of the Implementation Agreements;
(b)   the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action concerning the Borrower's Policy Statement
that would materially affect the implementation of said Statement
and the achievement of objectives of the Project; and
(c)   Law No. 21/B/92 dated August 28, 1992, (Lei de Base do
Sistema Nacional de SaOde) and other recently enacted legislation
and regulations relevant to the Project shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are, namely, that any of
the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) shall occur and shall


﻿- 10 -
continue for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Project Account has been opened and the initial
deposit made into it in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.03 of this Agreement; and
(b)   that consultants' services have been contracted to carry
out the audits referred to under Section 4.01 of this Agreement, in
accordance with technical and contractual terms satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished by the Borrower's Attorney General to the Association:
(a)   that this Agreement has been duly ratified by the
Borrower's Council of Ministers or its legal successor under a new
Constitution and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Implementation Agreements have been legally
executed and are binding upon the Borrower and its respective
counterparts.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
127 Avenida Quatro de Fevereiro
Luanda
Republic of Angola
Cable address:                Telex:
MINSAU                    9983363
Luanda, Angola
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By/         h
Authorized Rep esentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B S' Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                100% foreign
under:                                     expenditures;
and 80% local
expenditures
(a) Parts B.3 (a),        3,260,000
(b) and (c)
of the Project
(b) (i) Part B.2 of         280,000
the Project;
and
(ii) Part B.4 of         710,000
the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(2)    Equipment, vehicles,                     100%
materials and furni-
ture under:
(a) Part A of             210,000
the Project
(b) Parts:
(i) B.1 (a) of        350,000
the Project
(ii) B.1 (b) of        140,000
the Project
(iii) B.2 of the        140,000
Project
(iv) B.3 (a), (b),     920,000
and (c) of
the Project
(v) B.4 of the
Project           570,000


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3) Consultants' services:                     100%
(a) under Part A         2,480,000
of the Project
(b) under Parts:
(i) B.1 (a) of          210,000
the Project
(ii) B.1 (b) of          210,000
the Project
(iii) B.3 of the        1,770,000
Project
(iv) B.2 of the           70,000
Project
(v) B.4 of the          350,000
Project
(4) Incremental                                20%
operating
costs under:
(a) Part A of               70,000
the Project
(b) Parts:
(i) B.3 of the           70,000
Project
(ii) B.4 of the           70,000
Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Refunding of                 850,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                1,470,000
TOTAL                14,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   "incremental  operating   costs"  means  expenditures
incurred by PIU for Project implementation on account of operation,
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, supplies and consultants'
services directly related to the implementation of the Project as
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (ii) payments made
for expenditures under Category (1), until the Association has
received documentary evidence satisfactory to it confirming the
Borrower's legal ownership of land where civil works will be carried
out under Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project; (iii) payments made
for expenditures under Category (2) (b) (i), until the PNLS Imple-
mentation Agreement between MO and WHO has been signed, (iii) pay-
ments for expenditures under Category (2) (b) (ii), until the NFPP
Implementation Agreement between MOH and UNFPA has been signed; (iv)
payments under Categories (1) (b) (i), (2) (b) (iii) and (3) (b)


﻿- 17 -
(iv), until the MSF Implementation Agreement between MOH and M6dicos
Sin Fronteras has been signed; and (v) payments under Categories (1)
(b) (ii), (2) (b) (v), (3) (b) (iii) and (4) (b) (ii), until the
DGMC/KZ Implementation Agreement between MOH and DGMC/KZ has been
signed.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the
Borrower's health policy, health sector management and public health
program development capabilities; and (b) improve health care in
selected locations, at the national, regional and municipal levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening of Health Sector Policy and Management
1.    Strengthening of health policy development:
Strengthening of MOH's health policy formulation and health
services programming and management capabilities.
2.    Institutional strengthening of MOH:
(a)   Assisting MOH's Departments of Planning, Public Health
and Human Resources to (i) define health policies, and (ii) manage
the health sector;
(b)   strengthening  of   MOH's   Department  of   Planning
capabilities for Project management;
(c)   provision of short-term training for senior staff ia the
fields of Health Policy and Health Sector Management; and
(d)   building   rehabilitation,  acquisition   of   office
equipment, training materials, supplies and vehicles for MOH and
PIU.
3.    Carrying out preinvestment studies jointly agreed between the
Borrower and the Association in, inter alia, the following areas:
(a)   Health Sector Management;
(b)   Human Resources Development;
(c)   Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD), and Maternal and
Child Health;


﻿- 19 -
(d)   Health facilities rehabilitation; and
(e)   Identification of follow-up investment operations in the
health sector.
Part B:     Improvement of Selected National Health and
Rehabilitation Programs
1.    Strengthening of the following national health programs,
through the provision of training, acquisition of equipment and the
carrying out of information activities:
(a)   AIDS/STD Control Program; and
(b)   National Family Planning Program.
2.    Rehabilitation of selected health posts in the Province of
Huila:
Rehabilitation, including waste disposal, sanitation and
sanitary water supply; furnishing, equipping and reorganization of
about ten Health Posts in the Province of Huila.
3.    Relocation, construction, upgrading,    rehabilitation  and
equipping of selected facilities in Lubango:
(a)   Health  Professional School for nurses and health
technicians including:
(i)   construction of new school facilities, including:
(A) a new health center in the School's campus;
and (B) a health equipment maintenance center;
(ii)   car:ying out a training program and continuing
education courses; and
(iii)   rehabilitation of two Health Posts in Tioccho and
Nambambe;
(b)   Municipal Health Center; and
(c)   Pediatric Center.


﻿- 20 -
4.    Rehabilitation, equipping, furnishing and training of staff
of:
(i)   the existing hospital of Porto Amboim; and
(ii)   two Health Posts in Pinda and Km 47.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
a third-party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Angola may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local Competitive Bidding
Works referred to under Parts B.2, B.3 (b), B.3 (e) and B.4 up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 22 -
2.    International or Local Shopping
Vehicles and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$700,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract: (i) for works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (ii) for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 23 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
(a)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1931.
(b)   The Borrower shall appoint staff with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association as local counterparts to
the consultants employed in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph  (a) above.    Such local counterpart staff shall be
appointed before a contract is entered into between the Borrower and
the respective consultants.


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 25 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 26 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to para-
graph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:     Project Management
1.    Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
(a)   MOH shall carry out the Project through its Planning
Directorate where the PIU, reporting directly to the Director of
said Directorate, shall be established.
(b)   PIU shall be headed by a full-time staff with the rank
of  National   Director,  with   qualifications   and  experience
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   PIU shall be staffed with at least: (i) its Director,
two accountants (one senior and one junior), one engineer or
architect, and support staff in adequate numbers; and (ii) an
expatriate Project Advisor, employed in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d)   PIU shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(i) coordination of Project-related activities and distribution of
Project documentation among all relevant MOH Departments; (ii) over-
all (ii) overall coordination of Project implementation; (iii) com-
pliance with monitoring and reporting requirements under the
Project, including: (A) quarterly progress reports; and (B) annual
updated implementation schedule, detailed costs and budgetary
requirements for Project-supported activities to be carried out
during the upcoming Project year; and (iv) interliaising with
governmental, international and private institutions, donor agencies
active in the sector, and the Association, in order to facilitate
Project implementation.
Part B:     Project Implementation
The following Directorates and units of the Borrower shall be
responsible for Project implementation as follows:
1.    Part A  of the Project shall be carried out by MOH's
Directorate of Planning.
2.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Part C of this
Schedule, works under Part B.3 of the Project shall be carried out


﻿- 28 -
under the supervision of MOH's Human Resources Directorate in close
collaboration with the Provincial Health representative in Lubango.
(b)   Training and other consultants' services to be financed
under the Project for the Health Professional School described under
Part B.3 of the Project, shall be carried out through twinning
arrangements entered into between MOH and relevant foreign
institutions,  in  accorCnce  with   selection  and  contracting
procedures acceptable to tne Association.
Part C:     Implementation Agreements
The Borrower shall enter into Implementation Agreements
satisfactory to the Association with selected government, private
and international institutions to carry out certain Parts of the
Project, which shall include, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a)   identification of functions, technical and financial
contribution and staffing of the specific institutions responsible
for the execution of the respective Part of the Project;
(b)   description of coordination, review, renewal and settle-
ment of disputes mechanisms;
(c)   inventory of goods and services procured and methods of
procurement;
(d)   financial and auditing provisions; and
(e)   supervisory role of MOH's Directorate of Planning.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


