The World Bank
FMK OIMCIAL Us  1L
Rput    7-3625-
MP   REPCORDD
OF THE
REIDENT Op TgE
INTA COAL DEVEIMEnT ASSOClbIMR
TO THE
EXBCUTrVE DIECtORS
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 32.5 IMTIOICK
-   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   TO- TEE .  -  - - - - - - - - -
UNITED REULIC OF TAN7ZNIA
FOR THE
FOlUlI POWER PROjECT - ITEM  NYDRODECTRIC
July 6, 1983
,..idhi 4abmm  id my le Md by rudkm  0* In dotE qeuf,iuc 
I  I.eE       i        =a  g 'hiwmse be iiuimid -wkh.t Ve  Blink sudwhu,ds..



cumrcr V S
Currency Units      -      Taxzai Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00            -      US$0.082
US$1.00            -       TSh 12.18
US$1.00             -       SDR 0.929
(As the Tanzania Shilling is afficially valued in relation to a basket of
the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the USDolLar/Tazau±a
Shilling exchange rate is subject to chabqe  Conversions in. this report
were made at US$1.00 to TSh 12.2 which ms the level set in the most recent
eschange rate adjustment in June, 1983. The USDollar/I5l exchange rate
used in this report is that of Awril 19, 1983.
AIBREVIATIONS AND ACRONMS
BCF          -   bIllion cubie feet
kV           -   1 kilowatt or 1,000 watts
mg           -   1 uegawatt or 1)000 kW
Gi           -   1 gigawatt or 1,000,000 kI
kWh         -   1 kilowatt hour or 1,000 watt hours
Glh          -   1 gigawatt hour or 1,000,000 kWh
kV           -   1 kilovolt or 1,000 volts
TOE          -   Tons of oil equi4alent
CIDi        -   Canadisn International Development Agency
KiW          -  Kreditanstalt fur Viederauibau
Kuwait Fund -  Kuwait Fuad for Arab Economic Development
mm-E         _   Mn.stry of Water and Energy
NORAD        -   Norwegian Agency for Development
PFO          -  Prime Minister's Office
RIUJADA     -  Rufiji Basin Development Authority
SIDA         -   Svedish International Development Authority
SWECO       -   Swedish Consulting Group
TANESCO      -  Tanzania Electric Supply Ccmpany United
TARECo      -  Tanzania Rural Electrification Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TANESCO   : January 1 - December 31



TANZANIA                 FOR OMCIAL UW  ONLY
FOURTH POWE PROJECT - MTERA HYDROELECTRIC
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower:                United Republic of Tanzania.
Beneficiary:             Tanzania Flectric Supply Company, Lirmited (TAJESCO).
Amount:                  SDR 32.5 miliou (US$35 milLon equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         US$35 million would be on:ent to TANESCD for 20
years including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 112 per annum. TANESCO to bear foreign
exchange risk.
Co-financing:           The United Republic of Tanzania is arranging
co-financing as follows: loans from the Government
of France (US$5 llion equivalent), the Government
of Italy (US$19 million equivalent), and the Kuwait
Fund (US$20 mllion equivalent), as well as grants
from the Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany, KfW (US$20 million equivalent), NORAD
(US$30 million equivalent), and SIDA (US$30 million
equivalent). These aounts currently exceed the
project financing requirements by about US$10
million. The final amounts would be adjusted once
contracts have been awarded.
Project Description:    The proposed project vould be an integral part of
the Great Ruaha River hydroelectric generation
complex comprisimg both Kidatu and Mtera, whtch
would be operated and regulated as a cascade
system. The power plant to be constructed under
the project would be located underground near the
existing Etera dam, which was completed in late
1980 as part of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Project
Stage II.
The main project objective is to increase the elec-
tricity generating capacity to meet the growth in
local demand through 1990. The- project will
develop indigenous renewable energy resources and
create new job opportunities during its construc-
tion period. The project will supply power to
isolated areas through the expanded interconnected
system and will replace production from diesel sets
and thus provide substantial foreign exchange
savings. The project will also help lay the basis
for improved power sector coordination, tariff
policy, power system control and load dispatching
This docuent has a rmcted distribution maM may be ud by recipients only in the performance
of thur official duti Ils content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank guthorizution.



- ii -
practices. A further objective of the project is
to maintain and further improve TAIESCO's opera-
tions through continuing support of its training
and management programs.
The main project components are:
(a) construction of a water intake; a headrace
tunnel and a vertical penstock system leading
to an underground powerhouse with two 40-N
hydroelectric units; a tailrace tunnel (about
10.5 kmi); a switchyard and various ancillary
buildings;
(b) construction of a system control center at
Dar es Salaam;
(c) rehabilitation of the existing Ubungo diesel
station and other power system facilities;
(d) a four-year management and professional train-
ing of TANESCO engineers and mid-managerial
level staff; and
(e)  consultancy services for construction super-
vision and for studies on tariffs, long range
power development, power sector organization,
management system of TANESCO, and rehabilita-
tion of existing power generation and distri-
bution facilities.
Risks:                 The projected future load growth is lower than the
past growth and takes the existing depressed state
of the Tanzanian economy into consideration and
also assumes that it will continue. However, there
is a slight chance that the actual grovth could be
lower than the estimates due to the possibility of
further economic deterioration. In that case,
power generation projects following the Mtera power
proje=t would be delayed. A further point for con-
sideration is the high tariff increases that are
required in order to provide adequate cash genera-
tion; however, substantial tariff increases have
been implemented in the past, which suggests there
is no undue risk in this respect. No major
physical risks are anticipated in implementing the
proposed project beyond those that are normally
expected in the construction of a project of this
type and size and for which provision has been made
by continued use of consultants, advisors and a
panel of erperts.



- iiL -
Estimated Project Costs: 
-             ~~~~Local    Foreign    Total
Project Components:
Civil Works                                     16.5      47.9       64.4
Mechanical & Electrical WoMBs                    8.4      24.2       32.6
System Control Center                            0.5       2.9        3.4
Rehabilitation                                   1.2      15.1       16.3
Studies                                          0.5       1.5        2.0
Training                                                   0.7        0.7
Engineering & Consultancy Services               S.6       9.7       15.3
Base Cost (end 1982 prlces)               32.7    102.2        134.7
Contingencies: a/
Physical                                        1.9      14.7       16.6
Price                                          16.1      29.7/      45.8
Total Project Cost b1                     50.7      146.4 ;    197.1
Interest During Construction           37.6       -     /   37.6
Total Financing Required                  88.3      146.4      234.7
-                     -
Financing Plan:
-KISS Kil11on Equivalent-    Z of Total
Sources                           Local   Foreign       Total  Financing
IDA                              3.0       32.0        35.0        15
Co-financiers                     -        114.4      114.4        49
TANESCO                         59.9         -         59.9        25
Government                      25.4         _         25.4        11
Total Project
Financial RequirementS           88.3      146.4      234.7       100
a/ Total physical contingencies are about 12% of base cost; local price
contingencies are about 45% and foreign price contingencies are about
25Z of the respective base costs plus physical contingencies.
b/ Identifiable taxes and duties are about $25.4 aillion equivalent and
the total project cost, net of taxes, ls $171.7 million equivalent.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual                           8.0    4.2    9.3    9.0    3.7    0.8
Cumulative                       8.0   12.2   21.5   30.5   34.2   35.0
Economic Rate of Return:      About 10.1Z.
Appraisal Report:              Report No. 4050-TA, Date:  June 29, 1983



XNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMIEND&TION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC (F TANZANIA
FOR A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 32.5 million (US$35.0
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a hydroelectric
project at Ntera. These funds would be relent to the Tanzania Electric
Supply Company Lialted (TANESCO) at an interest rate of llX for 20 yeiars,
including 5 years of grace. In addition, the United Republic of Tanzania
is arranging co-financing from the Government of France (US$5 million equi-
valent), the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, KfW i(US$20.0
million equivalent),the Go- -rrment of Italy (US$19 million equivalent),
Kuwait Fund (US$20 million equivalent), NORAD (US$30 million equivalent),
and SIDA (US$30.0 million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 3086-TA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 23, 1981. A revised
memorandum, based on the work of two economic missions which visited
Tanzania in July and September 1982, will be i8sued in late 1983.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest indus-
trial base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and
trained personnel. For the first six years after Indepentence, the Govern-
ment's development objectives resembled those of many other less developed
countries, stressing growth in per capita income and national self-suffi-
ciency in skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital intensive
agricultural projects. This approach had a number of drawbacks, such as
high investment costs in the agricultural sector, and led in the Governr-
ment's view to unacceptable economic and social conditions, such as widen-
ing income differentials and unequal opportunities for advancement in the
rural areas. In response to this situation, the national development
strategy was reassessed in 1967. The new priorities, enunciated in the
Arusha Declaration and related policy statements, were directed towards
establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis on broad-based
rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and the intro-
duction of mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with guid-
ance from the Party, was expected to play the leading role, especially in
the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This led in the late
1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and finance,



-2-
the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of ujamaa
(cooperative) villages, the decentralization of government (1972), and the
mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Primary school enroll-
ments increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years,
and access to safe water increased in both the rural and urban areas. GDP
grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24Z of GDP
from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization improved with recur-
rent revenues rising from 15X of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in the mid 1970s.
However, the productive sectors grew slowly and the rate of return on new
investments (which was centered on the industry and transport sectors) was
poor.  Perhaps the principal disappointment was in agriculture, the domi-
nant sector in the economy, which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to
1973. This growth was also uneven among regions and precluded any narrow-
ing of rural-urban income differentials. Tanzania made rapid progress
towards localizing key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower
requirements remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic
investment and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By
1973, the issues which were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the
1970s and early 1980s were becoming clear: How quickly could a country
with limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the
expense of efficiency and incentives; how long could the country afford
these costs? What could be done to improve the growth rate of the moDe-
tized, productive sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania. Agriceitural produc-
tion also was affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this
time (decentralization and villagization), and there was a serious short-
fall in foodgrain production. The Government was forced into the world
market, making large purchases of foodgrains for casb. Export crop produc-
tion also fell during this period and the barter terms of trade dropped by
about one-third during these two years. As a result, the current account
deficit rose from US$118 million in 1973 to around US$340 million in both
1974 and 1975. Domestically, the recurrent budget fell into deficit and
Government bank borrowing rose from TSh.416 million in 1973/74 to TSh.1061
million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and was able to receive some assistance
from the IMF and a program loan from the Bank Group. Under this progr'.M,
import levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government
development expenditures were redirected towards the productive sectors,
and the Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 102 against the SDR. Producer
prices for food crops were substantially increased and at the same time,
the National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number
of drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in
addition to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken
to increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export



-3-
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted: declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and produc-
tive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and infra-
structure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.
During 1978, the overly stringent import controls were relaxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of pay-
ments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979 and flooding and drought in different
parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments deficit and the
Government built up major arrears on its import payments for the first time
since Independence. The domestic budget fell heavily into deficit as
expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50Z from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and
revenues improved by only 10%. As a result, Government borrowing from the
banking system increased from TSh. 600 million in 1977/78 to more than
TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the major factor in
money supply growth, which exceeded 53% in this period.
8.        According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this
latter trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture,
which seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project experi-
ence and the known marketed surpluses of food. Assuming a more realistic
growth rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture, overall GDP
growth since 1973 would also be reduced to 4.0CX per annum. With population
growing by around 3.3Z per annum, this implies an increase in per capita
GDP of only 0.7% per annum. There also has been a change in the structure
of the economy over the past seven years, away from the productive monetary
sector and towards subsistence and service activities. Excluding public
administration, commercial services and trade, the monetary sector has
grown by only 2.3% per annum over the past seven years, well below the
population growth rate. This change in the structure of the economy has
been a major factor hampering the Government's efforts to mobilize domestic
resources.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic sav-
ings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign savings
had financed 20-40% of domestic investment. However, the dependence on
foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic investment during
the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major shortfalls in
domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector, where they have
actually been negative in some years since 1975.



-4-
10.       Agriculture remains the mo*;t important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 90% of total employment, 50X of GDP and BOZ of exports. The
long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept pace
with population growth and apparently has fallen In more recent years as
the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has
been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by the
limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of rural
development has continuously been highlighted In Government statements,
including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not always
been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural sector or
in policy forrulation and implementation. The general direction of the
Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to emphasize
the transf-rmation of the institational structure of rural development
(through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement in the
sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production
directly.  Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly,
without careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use them to influence the pattern of agricultural
production. Available manpower, however, is still stretched rather thinly
throughout the sector, mainly because of the predominant role assigned to
the public sector. This has resulted in weakened capacity for policy
planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and exten-
sion. and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other on-farm supplies
and equipment. Another factor underlying the poor performance of agricul-
ture has been the deterioration of transport services. Road, rail and
water services have declined owing to a lack of spare parts, poor mainten-
ance and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks
and external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe
deterioration in the balance of payments over the past three years. Export
volumes have fal'on to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-1960s
and early 1970s. Furthermore, the terms of trade have declined by 40%
since the coffee boom of 1977, due to a sharp increase in import costs,
especially for petroleum, at a time when the overall level of export prices
has been rising very slowly. Owing to these adverse developments, the pur-
chasing power of Tanzania's exports in 1982 was more than one-third lower
than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. Following the oil shock
in 1979, this shortfall has been partially offset by additional external
resources, including a sharp increase in commodity and program aid to more
than US$200 million in 1980, as well as by drawings under the IDF standby
program concluded in September 1980. But Tanzania has also had to utilize
large amounts of exceptional financing, including suppliers' credits and an
increase in import payment arrears. Despite this, the volume of imports
has had to be severely curtailed, and in 1982, was still no higher than in
the mid-1970s.



- 5 -
12.       Given the deterioracion in international commodity prices,
as well as the limited scope for further exceptional financing, there is
little immediate prospect for an improvement in the balance of payments.
This continuing balance of payments constraint is inevitably having a
debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports reducing production
and maintenance of existiDg assets, resulting in further falls in exports
and available foreign exchange. This vicious circle will be difficult to
break, unless there is a substantial injection of foreign exchange and
major improvements in producer incentives, parastatal operations, import
allocations, the promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall govern-
ment planning and budgeting. In March/April 1981, the Government intro-
duced a number of significant measures-such as higher producer prices for
coffee, sisal and tobacco and the establishment of a Special Agricultural
Account at the Bank of Tanzania to ensure that a substantial proportion of
foreign exchange earnings are returned to the agricultural sector. This
Export Rehabilitation Program was supported by a US$50 million credit from
IDA (Cr. No. 1133-TA).
13.       During negotiations of the Export Rehabilitation Credit in March
1981, agreement was also reached on a Memorandum of Understanding on
Follow-Up Measures. These included more restraint and selectiveness in the
public investment program, more emphasis in the recurrent budget on the
operations and maintenance needs of the economy, Improved foreign exchange
budgeting, a re-examination of the roles (particularly purchasing mandates)
of the State-owned crop authorities, the introduction of more payment-by-
results schemes in industry and a review of subsidy and cost recovery
arrangements in the public sector. The Government also agreed that an
independent Advisory Group would be established to assist the Government in
preparing a comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982. The Government adopted a large number of its recom-
mendations and Incorporated these in a Structural Adjustment Program which
was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of important
initiatives and proposals. The development budget for 1982/83 has been
substantially cut back for the second year in a row to release resources
for the operations and maintenance needs of the economy. Difficult deci-
sions have been taken in the light of limitations on available foreign
exchange and physical resources. The price control system has been
reviewed and food marketing arrangements are to be reorganized.  The
Government has begun to allocate a larger, though still inadequate, share
of foreign exchange resources to agriculture through the Special Agricul-
tural Account established under the Export Rehabilitation Program.
Agricultural producer prices have been adjusted to maintain them broadly
constant in real terms, and the Government has announced its intentions to
relax restrictions on interregional trade. It has also opened up the
marketing of some crops (mainly minor grains such as millet) to anyone
interested in conducting such trade. Special steps are being taken to con-
trol Government recurrent spending and to reduce parastatal losses. The
functions of key agricultural agencies are being reduced and will be taken
over by other bodies, such as cooperatives. All of these measures will
serve to trim overall burdens on the public sector and give further
encouragement to smallholder production.



-6-
15.       However, while most of the key issues of economic recovery have
been raised in the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, important
decisions remain to be taken on matters such as the exchange rate and real
adjustments to agricultural prices. Furthermore, the Government has yet to
complete the preparation of specific action programs in key sectors (e.g.
transport) which would have a measurable Impact on production. In
the most important economic sector - agriculture - a Presidential
Commission has recently prepared a detailed set of recommendations, and a
Government policy paper on agriculture has been issued.  Measures proposed
include the elimination of most consumer food price subsidies, reduction In
the field marketing responsibilities of the export crop parastatals, relax-
ation of import procedures for agricultural inputs and equipment and the
strengthening of research and extension services. However, follow-up work
is still needed to permit implementation of some of these measures and to
define appropriate policies in other key areas, especially the decentrali-
zation of input distribution and the diversificatlon of crop marketing
channels. Further work is also necessary in estimating the resource
requirements of a medium term adjustment program and indicating precisely
how domestic and foreign exchange budgets will be administered to support
the program.
16.       A Bank Group economic mission reviewed the Government's program
in September/October 1982. The recommendations of the Governrent's
Agricultural Commission, and an agricultural sector report pr2pared by Bank
Group staff were also discussed with senior Government officials in Dar es
Salaam in March 1983. Bank Group staff will assist the Government during
the next few months in further strengthening its proposed agricultural
rehabilitation program.
17.       Discussions with the IMF on a possible Standby Arrangement are
continuing. Tanzania has had no access to Fund facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Following three rounds of discussions in May, June and
August 1982, the Government invited a Fund mission to visit Dar es Salaam
for three weeks in October 1982. No agreement was reached during this
mission, particularly on the appropriate magnitude of an exchange rate
adjustment, and discussions were resumed briefly in Washington in March
1983. An IMF mission visited Tanzania again for Article IV consultations
in April 1983.
18.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will con-
tinue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next three to five years. Even to halt a decline in per capita
GDP will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful
review of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects
with long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid
this, there will need to be continued emphasis on export performance and a
concerted effort to improve the level of capacity utilization and effi-
ciency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without jeopardizing
vital food production.



19.       A!though it may be possible to firance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising co3mercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzauia simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this include further dravings
from the IMF (which could add TFS$100 million per annum), deferred payment
arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying countries,
additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and multilateral
sources, and a continued movement towards non-project assistance.
External Debt
20.       Owing to the very concessional terms an which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratios have historically been less than 1OZ. In recent years there
has been somewhat greater reliance on non-concessional borrowing. This,
combined with falling exports, has resulted in ar increase in the debt
service ratio, which was estimated in 1982 to have been about 20%. The
Bank Group is assisting the Government in carrying out a complete review of
its external debt and improving its debt management system. This effort
which is still underway, has revealed that the reports on publicly guaran-
teed debt are incomplete and projected debt service payments may rise
sharply as a number of old loans begin to fall due and our coverage of the
debt information improves. Unless Tanzania's poor export performance is
reversed, the debt service ratio over the next several years may be signi-
ficantly higher than indicated above. Based on existing data, the Bank
Group held 33Z of Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed in
1981 (IBRD 14M) and obligations to the Bank Group accounted for 14% of
total debt service.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN TAXNIA 1/
21.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962. Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 56 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$1071.5 million have so far
been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling USS246.8 million which were extended for the develop-
ment of the common services and development bank operated regionally by
Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling USS4.7 million, were
made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encoun-
tered financial difficulties and in 1969, IFC 2nd other investors sold
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
President's Report for the Coal Engineering Project (Report No.
P-3547-TA of May 2, 1983).



-8-
their interest in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of
US$1.7 million in soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 8, 1978 and an investmert of US$1.5 million in metal
product manufacturing was approved in May, 1979. Annex II contains sumary
statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and
the East African Community organizations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
22.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (i) agri-
culture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv) educa-
tion and manpower development. Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has been
focussed primarily on rehabilitation and use of existing productive facili-
ties and the introduction of infrastructure and serviccs (such as power
generation and education facilities) of long term use to the economy.
Projects have been designed to minimize new demands on the Government's
recurrent, developuent and foreign exchange budgets; have been centered on
already experienced or financially healthy institutions; have been logisti-
cally insulated, as far as possible, from general supply difficulties in
the economy; and have included considerable technical assistance and train-
ing for better maintenance and use of existing capital facilities and more
effective resource allocation in the economy. Recent lending along these
lines has included a second petroleum exploration project, a third techni-
cal assistance credit (focussed on key manpower gaps in the agricultural
sector), a rehabilitation credit for the Dar es Salaam sewerage system, and
a coal engineering credit.
23.       A small number of other projects may be proposed in the agricul-
ture, energy and transport sectors during the next three years. In addi-
tion to the proposed fourth power project, a rehabilitation program for the
port of Dar es Salaam and an eighth education project have been appraised.
A sixth highways project, involving mainly the reconstruction of sections
of the Tanzania-Zambia highway, and a sugar and cotton rehabilitation
project are also under preparation. However, the design of viable projects
in the prod'ctive sectors of the economy, especially agriculture and indus-
try, will remain problematical in the absence of a wide ranging economic
adjustment program.
24.       In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has
provided non-project assistance on three occasions in support of Govern-
ment efforts to deal with its balance of paymuents difficulties. The first
such Credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most recent, an
Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April 1981.
25.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last four years by the disruptions of the Uganda War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties, which have resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for purchasing them have been adequate. External financing agencies have
been increasing the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
covered ty project budgets; however, it is irpossible to cushion projects
completely, particularly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the
economic crisis. Despite implementation difficulties, disbursements have
remained remarkably steady; Bank Group disbursements grew from US$58 mill-
ion in FY78 to US$114 million in FY82. A comparison with other portfolios



in the Eastern Africa Region indicates that Tanzanian disbursements have
been about average for the Region, ranging as a proportion of outstanding
commitments from ZO.LZ in FY76 to 25.52 in FY82 (compared with 20.6Z and
23.2Z in the same years for the Region as a whole,.
26.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
Implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank Group staff
*.       agreed to recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several
projects which have faced persistent Implementation problems. At the same
time it was agreed that the Project Implementation Monitoring Unit at the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs would be strengthened as a focal
point for further consolidation and improvements in the Bank Group
program. Intensive supervision, and in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and
Paper Project, timely assistance froa co-financiers have already had some
remedial results.  Even iii the agricultural sector, where constraints on
implementation have been most severe, there have been important
improvements in sone projects, e.g. Dairy Development. However,
considerable work remains to be done in iuproving project Implementation
and disbursements. The next Country Implementation Review wvil be held in
October 1983.
East African Commuuity (EAC)
27.        Developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Exe-cutive Directors in a memurandum, dated December 29,
1977, (R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (Sec MSO-364). One
of the positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the
Partner States' decision, taken upon the mediator's recommendation, that
the East Africa Development Bank (EADB) - one of the former Community's
institutions - should cocrtinue, and a revised charter to this effect has
been enacted. The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals
for the three Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981,
and decided to commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals.
The negotiations started in December 1981 in Arusha and continued in April
1982 in Jinja, September 1982 in Nairobi and December 1982 in Kampala.
The discussions have passed the fact finding stage and are now focussing on
details of a division formula for assets and debts. While it is generally
accepted that both location of assets and the principle of equal rights of
all former EAC partners should be taken into account, the weight to be
given to these principles from case to case remains the major issue in the
continuing negotiations.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
28.       Tanzania's energy resources are large and diverse but have not
yet been exploited systematically. In addition to forestry resources, the
country has coal deposits in the Southwest area estimated at about 300



- ir. -
million tons of proven reserves. Despite their remnoteness from the main
population centers and harbours, exploitation on a sizeable scale appears
feasible and a coal engineering project has been approved recently by the
Association. Tanzania has gas deposits on Songo-Songo island (about 800
billion cu ft. proved) and possible additional reserves at other locations
where exploration is continuing.2/ The potential for oil is being
investigated although no significant discoveries have yet been made.
Tanzania also has a large hydro power potential mostly sited in the basins
of various rivers which drain into the Indian Ocean. Finally, the country
possibly has a geothermal and uranium potential which is unexplored. At
present, Tanzania depends mostly on biomass sources (86% of total energy
consumption) for its energy supply in the form of firewood for heating and
cooking and some industrial processes, and depends mostly on hydro power
for electric energy.
29.       The total hydroelectic potential has been estimted to be about
19,000 GWh per year production capability, with about 3,800 MV capacity, of
which 247 MW has been developed. In addition to the large hydroe;ectric
power potential, there are also a number of sites suitable for mini bydro
stations mostly in rural areas far from the main power grid and the major
population centers. About 20 mini hydro stations operate in Tanzania with
a total capacity of 0.9 MW. The Federal Republic of Germany (KfW), NOAD
and SIDA are financing the investigation of about 30 mini hydro sites with
a total capacity of about 50 MW, and the Bank Group (under the technical
assistance componeut of an industrial development finance project) is
financing preliminary studies for hydrological resources. There are
various geothermal areas mostly located In the north-east and south-west of
the country in the Great Rift Valley. Investigations are continuing
through SIDA and indications are promising.
Energy Consumption
30.       Total energy consumption in Tanzania during 1979 and 1980 was
about 5.0 million tons of oil equivalent (TOE), or 300 kg. per capita. Of
this total, only 0.93 million TOE or 19% represented commercial energy con-
sumption. Per capita commercial energy consumption (at 52 kg. of oil equi-
valent) is considerably below that of other African countries such as Kenya
and Angola, mainly due to the large proportion of the population living in
rural areas which relies primarily on charcoal and firewood. Imported
crude oil and domestically-refined and imported oil products (totaling
832,000 tons) accounted for about 90X of total commercial energy consump-
tion in 1980, the remainder being met by coal and hydro-electricity.
Between 1970-75, demand for commercial energy grew at an average rate of
4.92 per annum. This rate of growth fell to 1.4% between 1975-80, follow-
ing steep increases in oil product prices and the resulting import restric-
tions, higher domestic prices and conservation measures introduced by the
Government.
2/ The Bank Group financed an exploration project in 1980 to assess
petroleum at Songo-Songo (IDA Credit 27-TA for US$30 million, June 30,
1980) and an oil-gas exploration project for US$20 million (IDA Credit
1199-TA, January 13, 1982). A gas utilization study financed by IDA
under the latter credit has been completed and is under review.



- 11 -
31.       The impact of crude oil and product imports on the ccuntry's
balance of payments is already significant. In 1980, the petroleum bill
was US$260 million or about 20% of Tanzania's merchandise imports and 52Z
of exports. Furthermore, commercial energy consumption could grow to about
1.3 million TOE in 1990 in real terms (at a rate of growth of about 2Z per
annum between 1980-85 and about 3.9% per annum between 1985-90). Even on
the optimistic assumption that hydropower and coal resources could be sub-
stantially developed over the next decade to meet about 20% of total com-
mercial energy demand by 1990, the petroleum import bill could exceed
US$1,000 million (in 1990 prices) by that year, equal to about 30% of total
projected merchandise imports. Thus, development of domestic energy
resources is an economic necessity in Tanzania in the eighties.
Sector Organization and Energy Planning
32.       The primary responsibility for development of energy resources in
.'nzania remains with the Ministry of Water and Energy (HWE). MWE has
three parastatal organizations, the Tanzania Petrolem Development
Corporation - TPDC (petroleum), Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited -
TANESCO (power) and the Rufiji Basin Development Authority - RUBADA (basin
development including Stiegler's Gorge, a potential hydropower development
site). XWE and these organizations prepare plans for the energy sector,
.-nd these are incorporated into the country's overall development plan by
the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.  The Ministry of Finance
mobilizes financing for development projects and administers taxes on oil
products. Energy prices are set by the Government's Economic Committee of
the Cabinet.
33.       Faced with the rising cost of oil imports and its serious impact
on the country's balance of payments, the Government has initiated several
activities to assess and exploit the domestic energy potential. Petroleum
exploration is being undertaken with the assistance of IDA (para. 28),
bilateral and multilateral donors and foreign oil companies. A coal
engineering project is being implemented with IDA assistance that could
lead to a coal exploitation project to generate power and to meet indus-
trial and domestic requirements. Uranium exploration is being carried out
by Uranerzbergbau, GCBH of the Federal Republic of Germany. Finally, the
Government has recently prepared a national afforestation program.
34.       While these efforts are underway, one general area of concern is
planning. Development of domestic energy resources will require large
financial commitments at a time when the resource availability is likely to
r main conmtrained and a careful evaluation of energy projects and ranking
of their priorities is necessary. These considerations led IDA to include
financing for consultancy services (an economic advisor and an energy
specialist) under the First Songo-Songo Petroleum Exploration Project
(Credit S-27-TA) to initiate work on an energy plan, including a review of
energy pricing and helping to develop a domestic capability to prepare and
appraise energy projects and coordinate energy studies. The Government was
originally to have appointed these consultants by December 30, 1980 (subse-
quently extended to April 30, 1982) but has not yet done so; however, pro-
posals are expected soon to be invited from consultants for filling these



- 12 -
positions. This delay has resulted partly from the heavy demands on mWE's
limited administrative resources made by the drilling under the Songo-Songo
Projects, which have slowed down efforts to recruit and partly from diffi-
culties in finding consultants able to place staff residing in Tanzania
over an extended period as requested by the Government. This in turn has
delayed the preparation of an energy plan which was to have been complated
by March, 1983. Nevertheless, some progress has been made in energy plan-
ning.  mWE staff has recently been strengthened and the MWE has had the
services of an energy advisor financed by CIDA since May 1981, who, vith
the assistance of mWE staff, has begun work on energy balance assessment.
The United Nations (Department of Technical Co-operation for Development)
financed in 1982 an energy planning mission consisting of two consultants
whose report has been reviewed by the Government and the Association. A
gas utilization study financed under the Second Songo-Songo Project is
under review. The Bank Group is carrying out an energy assessment jointly
with UNDP which will form the basis for future discussions with the
Government about energy sector issues, particuarly pricing, development
strategy and investment priorities, as well as provide the basis for agree-
ment with the Government on a revised program for preparing an energy plan.
Energy Pricing
35.       The retail petroleum product prices in Tanzania are generally
higher than the international prices and reflect costs of Imported crude
oLl and products, domestic refining and distribution costs as wel-l as
economic and social considerations and recognition of the need for conser-
vation.
36.       While the Government has rapidly increased the prices of petro-
leum products following the international oil price increases in 1979 (when
oil product prices were revised upwards by more than 50Z), it has not ade-
quately increased power tariffs, although there have been some increases
(para. 59). The power tariff structure and levels need to be periodically
revLeved. Under the previous power project (Second stage of the Kidatu
Hydroelectric Project - Loan 1306-T-TA of August 12, 1976; see para.44), a
study was undertaken by TAKESCO to develop a tariff structure reflecting
costs. The study was reviewed with the Bank and found to be generally
satisfactory, and changes in the direction of a more cost based tariff
structure were adopted in 1979; however, there have been considerable
changes in the investment program since 1979, particularly in regard to the
possible availability of gas resources, with the result that the present
tariff level lies between 44Z and 76Z of the long-run marginal cost of
electric power, depending on which of several alternative future sources of
power are considered. Therefore, the proposed project includes a provision
for a new tariff study, with the assistance of suitably qualified and
experienced consultants, to examine and make recommendations for appro-
priate tariffs, taking into account the results of a proposed study of
TANESCO's long range least cost development program (see para. 42). The
tariff study is to be completed by July 31, 1985. TANESCO would review the
study with the Government and the Association and thereafter implement the
appropriate recommendations by January 1, 1986 or such other date as shall
be agreed (Project Agreement, Sections 2.02(a) and 2.08).



- 13 -
Power Subsector
37.       The total electrical energy consumption of the country in 1980
was about 820 GWh, which corresponds to a per capita energy use of about 44
kWh/year, and is among the low levels of electricity use in the Eastern
Africa Region, reflecting the moderate level of industrial activity.
Ananal electricity consumption per capita in other Eastern Africau coun-
tries is approximately as follows. Kenya 90 kWh, Mauritius 573 kWh,
Madagascar 41 kWh, Ethiopia 22 kWh, Botswana 450 kWh. Most of the demand
is from industrial and commercial consumers (about 802).
..
The Power Supply Entities
38.       The Tanzania Electricity Supply Company, Limited (TANESCO) is the
country's largest power producer, producing about 98Z of the total electric
energy requirement. Another public organization, the Rufiji Basin
Development Authority (RUBADA) established under MWE in 1975 to harness the
multi-purpose potential of the Rufiji River, also has authority to plan,
construct and generate power facilities in the Basin and to sell electric
energy. This situation of overlapping responsibilities creates consider-
able difficulties in the planning of power sector activities. The result
has been costly duplication and diversification in pover sector planning by
TANESCO and RUBADA, a situation which Tanzania, with its constraints in
skilled manpower and finance, can ill afford and which has delayed identi-
fication and preparation of the proposed project. Furthermore, the Govern-
ment is planning a new organization, also accountable to MWE, to be respon-
sible for rural electrification, the Tanzania Rural Electrification Corpor-
ation (TARECO), whose prime objective would be the provision of relatively
inexpensive power to rural communities throughout the country and through
renewable resources of energy such as mini-hydro plants (para. 43). Ta
order to clarify the responsibilities and duties of each organization in
the power sector, the Government has agreed to prepare, with the assistance
of consultants, a sector organization study by December 31, 1984, on the
basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and appropriate
recommendations would be implemented within one year thereafter (Credit
Agreement, Section 3.06).
Existing Facilities
39.       TANESCO has an extensive grid system in the eastern part of the
country which serves the coastal strip including the Dar es Salaam,
Morogoro, Tanga, Arusha, Moshi regions and, through submarine cable,
Zanzibar. TANESCO also has 15 isolated service areas scattered throughout
the country, but mostly _ocated in the northwestern, southwestern and
southeastern zones of Tanzania. The total installed capacity oE TANESCO's
power plants is about 370 MW, of which 247 MW is hydro (interconnected
system only) and 122 MW is diesel (mostly isolated systems). TANESCO has
about 4,840 km of powerlines of various voltages and cables throughout the
country. While maintenance and operation of power facilities have been
satisfactory, several small hydropower plants, the Ubongo diesel station
and the distribution network in Dar es Salaam, require major overhauls and
rehabilitation after many years of intensive utilization. Problems have



- 14 -
also been experienced at times in obtaining spare parts and consummables.
For this reason, a rehabilitation component has been included in the pro-
posed project (see paras. 48 and 52).
Supply of Power
40.       TANESCO's average sales growth has been rapid during the last two
decades with an average annual growth of about 10% (annual average sales
were 159 GWh and 732 GWh in 1962 and 1980, respectively). The growth rate
was drastically reduced to about 5% per annum between 1973 and 1977 due
mainly to the restraint on growth imposed by the high cost of oil, but
recovered with an average annual rate of about 9Z between 1977 and 1981.
Future load is estimated to grow at an average yearly rate from 1981 to
1990 at about 6.6Z for the grid, including Zanzibar but excluding NW, SW,
and SE expansions. This is lower than the historical growth rate due to
expectations of lower economic growth.
41.       Since Tanzania's independence in 1968, TANESCO has been expanding
Its grid to service areas as far as economic constraints have permitted.
Some connecting powerlines between the grid and the SW and NW zones are
under construction, and are being financed by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and the Government of Italy, including an up-
graded line to the proposed Mtera power station. The Mtera-Iringa line
would be completed by January 1, 1987 in time to enable the full capacity
of the proposed power plant project to be utilized (Project Agreement,
Section 4.06). By 1988 TANESCO's total firm capacity (including the pro-
posed project) will increase to about 335 NW, which will be sufficient to
meet the expected system maximum demand of about 300 MW through 1990 with
adequate system reserves.
42.       The proposed project includes funds for a study to be carried out
by TANESCD with suitably qualified and experienced consultants selected on
the basis of terms of reference agreed with the Association, for medium and
long range power development. This study would include the preparation of
a revised least cost medium to long-term generating plant and transmission
line program and would be completed by December 31, 1984 (Project
Agreement, Sections 2.02(a) and 2.08). The various alternative prime
sources of power (hydro, natural gas, coal, geothermal, oil and bagasse)
would be considered, as well as the possibility of developing
inter-regional needs for the benefit of Tanzania. The results of this
study are expected to be an important input into Tanzania's overall energy
sector planning (para. 34).
Electrification of Rural Areas
43.       The Government has given high priority to industrial and urban
electrification for many years. TANESCO supplies about 111,000 connections
throughout the country, which provide electricity to about 700,000 con-
sumers, or 4% of the total population. Only about 1.2 million (less than
7% of total population) have access to electricity. This is in the high
range for East African countries. Comparative percentages of population
supplied with electricity are: Kenya 6%, Lesotho 3.5Z,Malawi 2%, Sudan
8.5%. The Government's program for the electrification of rural areas



- 15 -
covers the electrification of villages and snall towns. TANESCO has so far
electrified a few villages and small towns through government grants and
soft loans through bilateral assistance. Since this operation is generally
expected to be unprofitable, the Government has decided, on the basis of a
MWE study, to establish a rural electrification corporation in order to
accelerate development of village electrification. Where possible this
will be by renewable resources - for example, small hydro schemes in the
Kigoma, Rukva and Ruvuma regions. Firm proposals have not yet been
prepared, but when available should be carefully reviewed to avoid overlap
and fragmentation in the power sector.
Previous Bank Group Lending and Present Strategy
44.       This would be the Bank Group's fourth lending operation in
Tanzania's power sector. The first was Loan 518-TA for US$5.2 million to
cover part of TANESCO's development program for the years 1967 through
1970; the second was Loan 715-TA for US$30 million and a supplementary loan
for US$5 million to cover part of construction of the First Stage of the
Kidatu Hydroelectric Schem which was completed in 1975 (Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report, December 19, 1979); and the third was for the Second
Stage of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Project with Loan 1306-T-TA for US$30
million and a supplementary Special Action Credit of US$7.0 million, which
was completed in 1981 and for which a project completion report has been
prepared.
45.       The most important lesson related to previous Bank Group opera-
tions in Tanzania is related to project cost overrun. In order to prepare
realistic cost estimates and a corresponding financing plan, cost estimates
should be reviewed by an independent cost consultant as early as possible
in the preparation of the project, preferably before the appraisal of the
project. This is now a standard recommendation for any project with sub-
stantial civil works. The Bank Group requirement of a panel of experts in
darm construction has been particularly valued by TANESCO. Retention of
full-time advisors for construction supervision has also been a positive
feature of previous projects. The Bank Group's concern for the environment
has resulted in detailed studies on various aspects, and TANESCO has
satisfactorily implemented recommendations directly related to the project,
though implementation of certain recommendations will be long term. The
Bank Group has systematically guided and encouraged TANESCO's strong
training program, and the program's successful achievement of objectives
shows the effects of close cooperation between the implementating agency
and the Bank Group (para. 50). The Bank Group has played and continues to
play an important role in the preparation of projects and in the
coordination of co-financing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was proposed to the Association in mid 1980 on the
basis of a feasibility study carried out by the Swedish Consulting Group
(SWECO). The proposed project was appraised in December 1981.
Negotiations were held in April, 1983 in Washington. The Tanzanian
delegation was led by Mr. Al Noor Kassum, Minister of Energy and Water. A
Credit and Project Summary is given at the beginning of this report,



- 16 -
and a Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Tanzania - Fourth Power Project"
(No. 4050-TA of June 29, 1983) Is being distributed separately. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The main project objective is to increase the electricity genera-
ting capacity to meet the growth in local demand through 1990. The project
would develop indigenous renewable energy resources and create new job
opportunities during its construction period. The project would also help
lay the basis for Improved power sector coordination, tariff policy, power                .
system control and load dispatching practices.  A further objective of the
project is to maintain and further improve TANESCO's operations through
continuing support of its training and management programs.
48.       The proposed project would be an integral part of the Great Rusha
River generation complex comprising both Kidatu and Ntera, which would be
opera 3d and regulated as a cascade system. The power plant would be
located underground near to the existing ltera dtm, which was completed in
late 1980 as part of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Stage UI. Major
transmission construction is either in hand or about to be undertaken to
enable TANESCO to utilize the power from this generation complex as well as
the potential power available from indigenous coal-fired generation, which
would be located in the southwest of the country. The description of the
proposed project is as follows:
(a) construction of a water intake at the exIsting Mtera reser-
voir on the Great Ruaha River; a headrace tunnel and a
-vertical penstock system leading to an underground power-
house with two 40-MW hydroelectric units; a tailrace tunnel
(about 10.5 km) to the Great Ruaha River; construction of a
switchyard and administration buildings, a storehouse, a
workshop and TANESCO staff houses at Mtera;
(b) construction of a system control center at Dar es Salaam;
(c)  rehabilitation of the existing Ubungo diesel station and
other power facilities;
(d)  a four-year management and professional training of
TANESCO's engineers and mid-managerial level staff to main-
tain and improve TANESCO's operations and to improve further
its system control and load dispatching practices; and
(e) consultancy services for construction supervision and for
studies on tariffs, long range power development, power
sector organization, management system of TANESCO, and
rehabilitation of existing power generation and distribution
facilities.



- 17 -
Project Implementation
49.       Executing Agency.  The beneficiary and executing agency would be
TANESCO, a parastatal limited liability company accountable to the Ministry
of Water and Energy, and responsible for public power supplies throughout
mainland Tanzania. It was established in 1931 as a private company and in
1964 the Government bought all the issued shares not already owned, from
the East African Power and Lighting Company, Limited (EAP&L). TANESCO's
board of directors is appointed by the Government and the managing director
is a presidential appointee. The present incumbent is a professional power
specialist who was appointed in 1980 from within the ranks of the organiza-
tion.
50.       The Bank Group has a long-standing involvement in TANESCO's
training program and manpower development. Dating from the appraisal of
the first power project in 1967, TANESCO's progress in manpower development
gives cause for satisfaction. TANESCO established a training school and
training program in the mid-sixties and later with the help of the Swedish
International Development Authority (SIDA) and the Bank, IANESCO developed
a long-term and sound training program with appropriate objectives for man-
power development. Through comprehensive management training programs,
which were components of previous Bank-financed power projects, since 1975
TANESCO has reduced expatriate staff at headquarters and major power plants
from 50 to 6, out of a total staff of 6,269. At present, all managerial
positions are capably held by Tanzanians and this is a remarkable
achievement. The project includes provision for a continuation of the
management training program included under Loan 1306-T-TA to upgrade middle
and top management staff, particularly for planning, construction and
system control activities. The project includes a management study to
further improve TANESCO's organization and management practices to upgrade
the quality of services and the company's efficiency. TANESCO would employ
consultants with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
to prepare the management study by June 30, 1985 and implement appropriate
recommendations of the study by January 1, 1986 (Project Agreement,
Sections 2.02(a) and 2.08).
51.       Implementation.  TANESCO would ba responsible for implementation,
assisted by engineering consultants (SWECO of Sweden) who were responsible
for preparing the feasibility study and bid documents, and in addition
TANESCo would retain two full-time advisors employed under the Kidatu
Project. TANESCO would also continue to employ the part-time advisory
panel, already in place from the preceding project, for the construction
supervision consisting of an engineering geologist and three civil engi-
neers specializing in dam construction and underground excavation. The
cost of engineering consultants' services is estimated at about US$19
million. The average manmonth cost (including about 1,600 manmonths of
salary, international travel and subsistence) is estimated at about
US$11,000. Consultants' services for the studies are estimated to cost
about US$2.5 million. The estimated average man-month cost for these addi-
tional services is about US$10,000.



- 18 -
52.       The bid documents have already been prepared by SWECO and bids
for the main civil works to be included in the project have been
received. Construction is expected to begin in late 1983 and to be comple-
ted in mid-1988. TANESCO and its consultant have the necessary knowledge
and experience of the site and surrounding area regarding the availability
and properties of local materials, such as rock, sand, etc., which would
enable a quick start to the project. It is Also expected that the con-
struction of the control center would start in April 1984 and be completed
by August 1985. In connection with the rehabilitation component, TANESCO
would employ suitably qualified and experienced consultants to prepare a
rehabilitation study of TANESCO's existing power facilities by June 30,
1984 (Project Agreement, Sections 2.02(a) and 2.08).
53.       The tariff, power sector organization and long-range power devel-
opment studies are discussed in paragraphs 36, 38 and 42, respectively.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
54.       The estimated total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies but excluding interest during construction, is US$197.1
million with an estimated foreign exchange component of $146.4 million.
The cost estimates include import duties and taxes estimated to be about
US$25.4 million. Total physical contiDgencies of about 12Z of the base
cost have been provided and average local price contingencies of about 13X
per annum and average foreign price contingencies of about 72 per annum of
the respective base costs plus physical contingencies, have been included
to meet expected inflation in local and foreign costs during the project
implementation period of 5 years. Interest and other charges during con-
struction on the credits and grants to be provided by IDA and the co-finan-
ciers (para. 55) to be on-lent by the Government to TANESCO would add an
additional US$37.6 million to the financial requirements of the project.
Details of the cost estimates are shown in the Credit and Project Summary.
55.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 32.5 million (about US$35 million
equivalent) would finance 20% of the estimated net project cost (US$171.7
million), equivalent to about 24% of the estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent of the project (US$146.4 million) in both cases excluding interest
during construction. Loans from the Government of France (US$5 million
equivalent), the Government of Italy (US$19 million equivalent), and the
Kuwait Fund (US$20 million equivalent),as well as grants from the Govern-
ment of the Federal Republic of Germany-KfW (US$20 million equivalent),
NORAD (US$30 million equivalent), and SIDA (US$30.0 million equivalent)
would finance the remaining foreign costs. External financing could amount
to about US$159 million or about 68% of TANESCO's total financial
requirements (including interest during construction) for the project. The
final amounts of foreign financing would be adjusted once contracts have
been awarded. The IDA credit would be on standard terms, with the
Government on-lending the credit and entering into a subsidiary loan
agreement with TANESCO at an interest rate of 11% per annum with an
amortization period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years. It
is expected that most of the co-financing would be on-lent to TANESCO on
similar terms. TANESCO would bear the foreign exchange risk on the IDA
credit.
56.       The remaining financial reqfirements of the project (US$85.3
million) would be financed through TANESCO's internal cash generation
(US$59.9 million) and Government contributions (US$25.4 million). The



- 19 -
co-financing arraigements are well advanced. Two meetings (in 1982 and
1983) have been held among the co-financiers to review project preparation
and to coordiuate the financial arrangements. The main civll works are
being jointly financed by IDA and four of the six co-financiers (Germany
(KfW), Kuwait Fund, NORAD and SIDA). Conditions of effectiveness related
to the co-financing are as follows: (i) notification by Germany (KfW) and
SIDA that all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of their grants
have been fulfilled; (ii) signing of the NORAD grant; and (iII) evidence
satisfactory to IDA showing that the French and Italian loans (which are
financing on a parallel basis the rehabilitation of the Ubungo diesel
station, and minor civil works and equipment, respectively) have been made
available for the project. (Credit Agreement, Section 5.01 (b),(c) and
(d). As a condition of disbursement, no withdrawals would be made after
Harch 31, 1984 or six months after the date of the effectiveness of the IDA
credit, whichever is earlier, in respect of payment for the main civil
works unless the Kuwait Fund loan and NORAD grant were effective (Credit
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).
Financial Structure and Performance
57.       Over the period 1976-81, TANESCO's sales revenues increased by an
annual average of 21X as a result of average annual increases of 10% in GWh
sales and a 42% tariff increase in December 1979, whereas operating expen-
ditures increased at an annual rate of only 19%, despite fuel cost
increases of nearly 23% per annum. However, due to a slow down in economic
activity during 1981, sales increased only 7% for the year. The 1981
debt:equity ratio of 53:47 was conservative, with 78Z of debt relating to
loans for Kidatu I and Kidatu II. Bank Group lending comprised 46% of
TANESCO'ls debt, followed by SIDA 17Z, and KfW 20X. Borrowing terms were
generally concessional over about 25 years (including 5 years grace) at
interest rates ranging from 3-1/4 to 9%. In line with the requirements of
Loan No. 1306-T-IA for the Kidatu Project, no long-term indebtedness would
be incurred by TANESCO without prior Bank Group approval, unless cash
earnings before provision of depreciation are at least 1.5 times the
maximum debt service for any succeeding year, on all debt including the
debt to be incurred (Project Agreement, Section 4.03). TANESCO has met
this provision in the past. Debt service for 1980 was covered 2.7 times
and 1981 was covered about 3.1 times by net cash generation.
58.       Arrears.  On December 31, 1981 TANESCO had a bank overdraft of
TSh25 million, mainly attributable to difficulties with the collection of
customer accounts; accounts receivable totailed TSh298 million (an average
of 213 days of sales). The major problem in the past has been that about
60% of accounts receivable are owned by government and parastatal organiza-
tions which have not been subjected to regular "disconnection for non-pay-
ment- practices. Computer breakdowns have limited TANESCO's ability to
apply the disconnection practice to the other 40Z normally subject to these
practices. TANESCO and the Government have recently instituted several
measures which have resulted in a reduction of receivables to a level of
about 90 days sales. Government and TANESCO have agreed that by December
31, 1983 TANESCO would maintain its accounts receivable at a level which
would not exceed 60 days of sales (Project Agreement, Section 3.07). As in
the past, TANESCO maintains a short-term lending arrangement with the



- 20 -
Tanzania National Bank of Commerce in order to provide adequte wOrking
funds to cover TANESCO's extas1g and estimated futurs bank ovardraft
conditions.
59.       Tariff Levels and Rate of Recurn.  Under Loan lo  1306 T-TA and
the Supplementary EEC Specil    AtiOCredt 55-TA to TAIIsCO. both for the
Kidatu Hydroelectric Project, TANESC0 agreed to revalue assets everY two
years and to maintain tariffg t   level sufficient to arhieve an
rate of return of not less tha  71 on average net fixed assets in 0peration
so revalued. TANESCO's asset. were to be revalued for thl purpose using
the average of the Dar es Salaam Retail Price Index for wage Earners and
the Cost of Living Index for tiddle Grade Civil Servants,  The applicstlon
of this formula has produced revaluations of 55% in 1976, 26X in 1978 and
33Z in 1980.  TANESCO belie,t, that these revaluations have been escessive
and unrealistic and they have esperienced difficulty JuStifying theE to the
Government when submitting tariff increase proposals.  TAtSO,s tariffs
were increased by about 502 ln 1976, bY 42X in December 1979, and by 501 as
of january 1, 1983 to the present average of 97.5 T centa/kWh (8 US
cents/kWh at the offlcial rate Of exchsnge) about 44Z to 76X of the long
run marginal cost (para. 36).  This was not sufficient to meet the loan
covenant, except in 1980 (6.8%)  and With the inclusion of the recently
completed Kidatu II in the asset base, only about 21 was achieved fOr 1981.
60.       Since Loan No. 1306-.A and credit 55-TA were uade  both TANESCO
and the Bank Group have becoie aware of the shortcomings of this
revaluation formula for the Purpose of Increasing tariffs.  TherefOre, it
has been agreed that TANESOD wld switch to a cash generation requirement;
namely, average tariff levelsw ould be get so that TANESCows Internal
sources contribute to capital expenditure at a level of nOt less than 251
for the years 1985 and 1986 and 40Z in each year thereafter.  For this
purpose, capital expenditure Kll be computed on a 3-year uoving average
(the preceding year, current year, and following year).  TANES0 has agreed
to increase its average tariff level by 202 to 117 T cents/kWh effective
January 1, 1984 (Credit Agreewett  Section 3.02(b); ProJect Agreement,
Section 4.04).  Additional Increases of 4 T cents in 1987 and 1988 have
been assumed raising average tariffs tO 125 T cents/kWh.  The above tariff
increases would result in rates of return on average revalued (revalued on
the basis of the Associationi, projectioUn of inflation) net fixed assets
in operation from 1985 through 1988 which are below the 72 rate of return
required under Loan 1306-TA (5.71, 5.6%, 4-4Z and 3.7Z - 1985 through 1988;
1.1Z, 5.5Z and 7-7X - 1982 through 1984)-  As the revenue, produced by the
proposed tariffs are adequat, to meet A significant portion of the
construction costs while maintaining a relatlvely strong cash  oltion' it
would appear that concern about the revaluation formula Uhgjt oe valid.  As
a result ,the Government and TAbESCo have undertaken to seek agreement on a
realistic asset revaluation formula by December 31, 1984 for review by the
Association and thereafter revalue its assets every two Years (project
Agreement, Se   ion 4.05).  Assurances were given by the Government and
TANESCO to thNeffect that if uch a fOrnulas when utilized in a rate of
return measure similar to that originallY agreed to under Loan No. 1306-TA
and Credit 55-TA, results in flnancial results consistent with the casb
generation requirement, then TA4ESCO and the Government cOuld, with the
agreement of the Association, return to a rate of return measure.



- 21 -
61.       Future Operations and Financial Performance.  During the project
period of 1984-1988 TANESCO's construction program envisages expenditure of
about US$491 million, (including interest during construction of about
US$73 million), of which about 48:, is in respect of the proposed project.
In addition to the proposed project borrowing of about US$149 million, the
financing plan for this period includes major foreign borrowing of about
another US$93 million from existing, potential or unidentified lenders to
finance some 42Z of the ongoing and other future construction, including
the completion of major grid extensions.  From 1984 through 1988, including
the proposed project, TANESCO intends to borrow for-its construction pro-
gram about US$242 million, of which the proposed IDA credit is 14Z.
TANESCO's financing plan for 1984 through 1988 includes gover=nent contri-
butions (mostly bilateral assistance grants transferred to TANESCO in the
form of equity) of TShlO73 million (US$88 mdllion).
62.       Future operations and financial performance projections indicate
that TANESCO's financial performance and condition would be generally
satisfactory throughout the period 1983-1990. During this period elec-
tricity sales are forecast to increase about 7Z per year while revenues,
reflecting both tariff and demand increases will increase an average of
about 192 per year. Expenses, including depreciation based on the revalued
asset basis, are expected to increase an average of about 15% per year.
The debt/equity ratio over this period ranges from 38/62 in 1983 to 35/65
in 1988, the debt service coverage from 2.5 in 1983 to 4.2 in 1988, and net
internal cash generation from 28Z in 1983 to 54Z in 1988.
63.       Accounts and Audit. TANESCO's accounting staff are competent and
procedures are good, so that information has been readily available and
financial control reasonably effective. The government-owned Tanzania
Audit Corporation (TAC) has been auditing TANESCO's accounts since 1971.
The audit covenant under Loan 1306-IA which would be repeated under the
proposed credit and which requires TANESCO to have its financial statements
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and to submit
its audited financial statements to the Bank Group within five months after
the close of the fiscal year, has been substantially met, except in FY80
and FY81 when computer problems substantially delayed the audit. The
performance of the auditors has been satisfactory.
Procurement and Disbursements
64.       Procurement for the main civil works (headrace and tailrace
tunnels, underground powerhouse), totalling about US$90 million including
contingencies and which is being jointly financed by IDA and four of the
six co-financiers (Germany-KfW, Kuwait Fund, NORLD and SIDA), is on the
basis of international competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
joint financiers which are consistent with the Bank/IDA Guidelines for
Procurement. Domestic bidders are not qualified for these principal
works. TANESCO has invited bids and offers have been received for these
jointly financed civil works. The remaining and minor civil construction
works would be financed by Italy and TANESCO. Contracts for civil works
and goods, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and not likely to
interest foreign bidders, vould be awarded on the basis of the local
competitive bidding procedures which were found to be satisfactory to MDA,
and in which foreign bidders also have the opportunity to participate.



- 22 -
TANESC0 has invited bids for the mechanical and electrical equipment
totalling about US$49 million including contingencies. This equipment
has been grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procurement is in
accordance with the procedures of the particular financing agency which
is financing the component.
65.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over about 5 years
on the following basis: 37Z of foreign expenditures and 20X of local
expenditures for the main civil works (the remaining balance to be financed
by Germany (KfW), Kuwait Fund, NORAD, SIDA and TANESCO); and 1OOZ of the
foreign cost of the studies, training, expert services and equipment and
materials for rehabilitation of power system facilities. No withdravals
would be made in respect of payments for the rehabilitation component until
the rehabilitation study (para. 52) has been completed (Credit Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 4Cc)). No withdrawals would be made after March 31, 1984
or six months after the date of the effectiveness of the IDA credit, which-
ever is the earlier, in respect of payments for the main civil works if the
Kuwait Fund and NORAD financing have not become effective (see para. 56;
Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b)). An estimated disbursement
schedule is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Environmental Considerations
66.       Construction of the proposed project will have no significant
impact on the environment. There are no permanent settlements on the
stretch of the river between the dam and the taiLrace tunnel. The existing
Mtera dam was constructed on the Great Ruaha River (completed 1981,
financed under Loan 1306-T-IA) as part of the Kidatu Second Stage Hydro-
electric Project. A general ecological review of the Mtera site and the
reservoir had been completed in L970, financed by SIDA. A detailed series
of studies of all environmental aspects was carried out between 1972 and
1978, including the expected environmental changes below the Mtera reser-
voir during the construction of the Kidatu dam (Loan 715-TA, completed
1971). These studies did not indicate negative effects sufficient to
jeopardize the feasibility of the construction of the dam. The studies'
recommendations were discussed by the Government, the Bank, SIDA, and KfW
and implemented as agreed between 1978 and 1981. They included the
successful relocation of about 2,000 persons to the new ujama village
established by the Government and TANESCO, the establishment of health
programs and a nature reserve, and a governonent program for tapping the
potential minimum yield of 3,000 tons per year of fish from the Mtera
reservoir. Implementation of the recommendations has been reviewed in the
forthcoring completion report on Loan 1306-T-TA. No adverse effects of the
damming have been observed so far.
Justification and Risks
67.       The proposed project constitutes the least-cost alternative (at
discount rates of lOX and 15X) when compared to feasible alternatives for
providing the power and energy required by 1988. The evaluation of the
most economic option for new power facilities in 1988 has to be set in the
context of long term power development. There are two related issues
involved in determining the least-cost long term development power
program. The first issue concerns the selection of the next uimt of power



- 23 -
generation capacity which is required by 1988. The second issue concerns
the type of power plant selected for additional generation capacity subse-
quent to 1988.
68.       The only existing technically feasible alternative to the Mtera
project in 1988 is the construction of an oil-fired steam power plant at
Dar es Salaam, although this would result in an increase in oil imports and
therefore greater expenditure of scarce foreign exchange. While a number
of potential sites for hydroelectric generation have been identified in
Tanzania, none of these are possible alternatives to the Mtera project in
1988, since none could be developed and constructed in time. The potential
exists for the use of coal-fired power plants, given Tanzania's large esti-
mated proven reserves (300 million tons) and estimated inferred deposits
(1.3 billion tons); however, progress on developing coal mines has not been
sufficiently advanced for a coal-fired thermal station to be completed by
1988. Tanzania may also have the option of using natural gas from offshore
fields for the generation of power. Proven offshore reserves of about 800
BCF (para. 28) have been confirmed at the Songo-Songo field. Exploration
activity is in progress at other offshore locations, although reliable
estimates of reserves are not yet available. The main uncertainties with
this alternative are (a) whether there will be any gas available for power
production after other committed uses of gas have been met, (b) the date by
vhich the gas field could be brought into operation and thus gas become
available for power generation, (c) the cost of collecting and transporting
it from the offshore wells to an onshore power plant. In addition, for gas
power plants a new institution would need to be created for the operation
,if the gas field, there are substantial risks of mechanical breakdown and
to date there is no Tanzanian organization that has experience in the
operation of gas-fired power generation and gas field delivery systems.
Nevertheless, if some of the reserves could be dedicated to power genera-
tion, then gas generation capacity could be commissioned to complement the
,tera project.  Because of the uncertainties referred to above, TANESCO has
not included gas plants in its 1983-88 investment program. Gas-fired
generation, as well as gas field development and transportation infrastruc-
ture, is being analyzed by consultants under an engineering study which
TANESCO has recently initiated (financed under the technical assistance
component of a Bank industrial development finance project), the results of
which would be an input for evaluating the use of gas for power generation
in the proposed long range power development study. This study would also
evaluate the potential for the use of coal-fired power plants and hydro-
electric schemes for additional generation capacity subsequent to 1988.
69.       The economic rate of return on the project is estimated to be
about 10.IZ based on quantifiable costs and benefits (assuming the average
electricity tariff remains at the January 1, 1983 level in constant price
terms). This estimate understates the economic rate of return if one con-
siders the additional unquantifiable benefits which are excluded from the
calculations (such as maintenance of agricultural, industrial and commer-
cial output made possible by avoiding power supply shortages).
70.       Although the projected future load growth is lower than the past
growth and takes the existing depressed state of the Tanzania economy into
consideration and also assumes that it will continue, there is a slight



- 24 -
chance that the actual growth could be lower than the estimates due to
possible further economic deterioration. In that case, power generation
projects following the Mtera power project would be rescheduled. A further
point of consideration is that of high tariff increases that are required
in order to provide adequate cash generation; however, substantial tariff
increases have been achieved in the past, which suggests there is no undue
risk in this respect. No major physical risks are anticipated in
implementirg the proposed project beyond those that are normally expected
in the construction of a project of this type and size and for which
provision has been made by continued use of consultants, advisors and a
panel of experts (para. 51).
PART V - LEG&L INSTRUMENTS AND AUTRORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and TANES0O and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Provisions in the Credit and Project Agreements of pa_ticular
importance are noted in paras. 36 through 60 of this Report and those of a
special nature are also listed in Section III of Annex III. Special condi-
tions of effectiveness for this proposed credit (Credit Agreement, Section
5.01 and referred to in para. 56 of this Report) are: ti) notification by
Germany (KfW) and SIDA that all conditions precedent to initial disburse-
ment of their grants have been fulfilled; (ii) signing of the NORAD grant;
(iii) evidence satisfactory to IDA shoving tbat the French and Italian
loans have been made available for the project; and (iv) that the subsi-
diary loan agreement has been executed between the Government and TANESCO.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 6, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                      ANNEXI
Page 1 of 6
TAMUE   36OIA   DW MD
TAuAiM                                        C99WEVEDA AB DAT
TS -
AM  crnous    sq-                                                nm acmw nns=
ACRICULTIR      401.4                1960 lb    370 /b ZSTht lb  AMCA, soom tw BANARA           m  mSm    or sAA
OIl PER CAPITA (USS)                   70.0      130.0    210                  250.3                1053.2
EIE COIUrII  PEN CAPITA
crILIBANus oF mAL EWIVALiEr)          1_1       63.0      50.5                66.5                 610.1
PoULTION  -ND VITAL STAXISCS
POFULTIONS. Mm-YE"EAR (TasA)   10201.0    13300.0  11650.0
URBA POPULATION (lERCr OF TOTAL)    4.8          6.9      IL.$                17.3                  28.3
POPULAION PROIECTION
POPMATION IN WACR 2000 CllMOS)                          36.2
STATIONARY POPULATION C UlLIO)                         110.5
YEAR SATIONARY POPULTON IR5                           2100
POPULATIO OTNSUT
PER SQ. DI-                        10.3       14.1      19.1                27-7                  56.7
P£E SQ. Rt. AGRIfLTIRAL UWD        26.6       33.4      44.9                86.7                 129.9
POPULATIM  ACE SUOCTRE CPERCENT)
0-14 YS.                          .42.7       ".4       46.0                 4.                   *6.0
15-6 IRs.                           54.3       52.5      50.9                52.3                  51.1
65 IS. A NDAj                        3.0        3.1      3.0                 2_9                    2.S
POPULAION GROWM RATE (PERCENT)
TOrAL                               2.2        2.7       3.4                 2.7                   2.S
URBAN                               5.0        6.3       8.7                 6.2                   5.2
CRUDE RUM RAIE (PM MNXIAID)          46.6       46.8       6.3                47.3                  47.2
COmC WAR RATE C(P  7HOUSAD)          22.4       18.6      15.1                19.5                  15.7
GOsS EPRODUCTION tRAE                 3.0        1.1       3.2                 3.2                   3.2
FAMILY PLANNIEC
ACCErrPTS. ANNMAL 7THOIMA)                              93.6/c
USERS (PERCET OlF MARRIED    )       ..         ...
FOOD AND NeTRON
iNDEK OF FOOD PRO W
PER WITA (1969-n-100)              95.0      104.0     S9.0                 38.7                 90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
'BRS (PERCENr OF
RE_UIRDEN )                      90.0       9L.0      66.51d              90.2                  93.9
PROTEINS (CRAMS PEM RAT)           46.3       48.8      47.67;              53.1                  56.8
OF WICK ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.8       Zl.Z      20.5U               18.4                  17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) UMRTALITY RE        33.1       25.6      19.4                26.7                 23.9
LIFE E ECTACY AT BIRTH (CEA)        41.7        46.7     51.6                45.6                  51.0
DWANT WAUL1TT RAE  CPU
THsAUm)                             15l.5      125.3    102.9                12.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE HAZR (PERCER OP
POPULATION)
TorAL                                ..       13.0      39.0/.              23.9
uau                                  ..       6.0       ss..7;               4.9
RURAL                                ..        9.0      36.o7TS 13.5
ACCESS TO ZIRRT DISPOSAL CPERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                ..         ..      17.0                25.8
URs                                  ..         ..      68.d7              63.1
RUAL                                 ..         ..      14.07;              20.2
POPULATION PEM UPISICIJN          13216.1    22240.8  175S3.1/d            32097.3              16135.2
POPULATION WE RRING PERSON        1186.9Yfa  7162.1   2387.SM              3264.6                2213.2
POPULATION PE& HspiTAL BE
TOTAL                             595.Stg    717.8    499.8/d             1225.0                1036.4
URBAN                              55.3       58.6     8.37;              249.S                 430.8
RIRAL                            1532.9ur ..   11.17;                     1712.1                3678.6
AHIISSIONS IER HOSPIrAL MED            ..         ..
HOUSING
AVENACE SIZE OF ROUSOLD
TOrAL                                ..          4        ..11
URBAN                              3.111       3.27       ...
RIRAL
AVERACE N lRUE OF PERSONS PER RO
TOTAL                                ..         ..
utRAN                               L.8t        ..        .
RURtAL                               ..         ..        .                   ..
ACCESS To ELECTrICrTy (PERCENT
OF HLLIRU)
TOTAL                                ' ''
UMRAL                                          ..              ..
IWRAL                                ..         ..        .                   ..



- 26 -                                     ANIEX I
Page 2 of 6
TALU 3A
?AI1A              TDICATO  DAMA SN3
TASZANIWA= IZRKEKM                              cn (IRTSU   AVflMI
w RE"CEN  Q0a                            t          C
ten~~~ ncr   -wn--md rwcc
1960  lb   1970 /b ZSTDA  lb  AMCA WM or uasn  AFRC  30T  0F 3A41
EDUCATIOs
X!flKomo.waT nArms
PSRIARY:    TOTAL               25.0        33.0    104.0                 63.2                    U3.3
MALE                33.0       47.0    113.0                  72.7                   96.1
YENALE              16.0       31.0      94.0                 50.3                   80.4
SECOIWAR:  T1OTL                 2.0         3.0       4.0                10.2                   15.3
mLuE                 2.0        4.0       5.0                 13.2                   19.4
P0*E10 1.0                      2.0       2.0                 6.6                   11.3
VOCATIOsAL ESOL. (Z OF SECSDY) 22.6             ..       1.6                 7.9                    4.7
PUPL-mACHER RATIO
iR2NARY                         45.3        45.9      41.4                47.4                   38.6
SECONA                          19.6        16.4      19.0                26.2                   23.4
ADCIT LEElCEtE X=f  tPERcar)       9.5,g,     2.1/i   66.0/c                3e.0                   33.6
COSUCP'OX
PASSEN     CARS FM TOAND
POPULATION                       2.4         2.5      2.616                3.0                   31.9
solo REIVER  naR THOUSAN0
POPUtOS                          2.0        11.3      27.7                34.0                   71.1
TV RECEIVERS :l IIOUSAND
POPULA1O                          ..         0.3       0.3                 1.7                   17.9
SEWSPAPER ('AIY GENERL
INTEEST-) CRCUATIOK PR
THOUSAND POPLATION                 2.5          ..     10.1                  2.9                   16-1
CINMA ASNNAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5         ..      0.216                1.1                    0.6
UL FORCE
Tor e   ot racz CTROCSANDU)    4734.7       5841.7   7650.5
PENILE (PERCENT)                37.2        36.7     36.0                 34.1                   36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)           89.0        86.0      83.0                78.4                   56.5
ISESTY (YPERCEST)                4.0         5.0      6.0                  9.2                   17.7
PARrICIPATIOS RATE (PERCENT)
TOA.L                             46.4        43.9      41.1                41.4                   37.0
MAXLE                             59.1        56.3      53.1                53.9                   46.9
maUC                              34.0        31.6      29.2                29.1                   27.2
EW2S11!tC DEPENKDECY RATIO           1.0         1.1       1.2                 1.2                    1.3
DiCONK DISTRUSUON
PERCENT OF PRYIVAE lScQI
RECEIVE 1SY
taGST S QNc   Or NSENLOS    ..              24.7
HICHEST 20 PERCE    F KSEOLDS   ..          50.4
LOIEST 20 PECN or ROUSEOD         ..         5.1
LOWEST 40 PERCM  Or EOSEUOLIS    ..         16.0
POVERTY TARCE? CROUPS
ESTLIMATED ABSOLUE POVEY ISCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URSZ                              ..          ..    167.0                134.3                  507.0
RURAL                             ..          ..    109.0                 82.9                  200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U55 PER CAPITA)
CR5S                              ..          ..    125.0                 96.4                  523.9
RURAL                             ..          ..      74.0                60.4                  203.6
ESTIMAED POPCLATID BELOW ABSOLUrE
PVERTY sINCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URS                               ..           .      10.0                39.3
RURAL                             ..          ..      60.0                69.0
Not available
NXt applicable.
mES
/a  The group average. for each indicator are populatiorweighted eritbmatic ieane. Coverge of coutries
among the lndieatore depend on avallability of data and Is not uform.
lb  Unless othervie noted. data for 1960 refer to any year betwee  1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Host tecentflsiEt e, between 1976 and 1980.
Ic  1978; Id 1977; la 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing In the country; /g 196Z; /h 1956;
- I 1936  5 for Masnland Tuzania only.
may, 1992



-m-d-            w Oa  nS.  "M
a.-a-ta  "    SKit £20bhsn- OS.t-                                                                   LqO Avnnp .siTOORI  - sp-£ . - 151 
0101310 30031311"a 3-                                                       -Isqi SOJO,STIO  3. 3". Aq 90".T1 0012234*  -  jhv`l
-wi. "a 04*114 nd Jo-  .03 - SO3£ .AO          s.o  AR e,as.  "a
Oa_  _   . '1__3  aOTis - 40_ '1_0341  "_ 00_t23_3 042
OV1TI1 A- T300401 320-20   'O-gqlqsdS cai3ad.. stp .   OIOO3o:
M-  .-. dat O2-OOn Sq p0   (1330  "a  1349'1251  14a  3. 3.1314
(1-   POO  M-1dd 1. --.4   jgli~V            pj--1q33 MI0 01   '1500 - (00220j3*0 30 1A3324  13t001 M2e.0 -I --3=3
033134. 0  "    (103.. a1t43   -MS"td0 PI vam154 - 133031 p            fl    A-  .31 30 *10 -Oaa 201O3            304  P---I it3  sosas 034. sOe
333  - (3 03) P150 2-31 -303-41 n1~40  -O,  5530l 44a0-JO  -.u.MT2   14  35003-fl mwu S lS 010 -J. '91O
fl3 .32 003 9131W.!tCl 30q4  4*3-32 .3230 135001peOlmi       03334f3    q.           31 -. (1-C~ PMite-si 2T1-42   Tdo 52-0,4
O,40 OICC3.1-.j p-3-   3-n    ..Id 2-TV13.3    2~ --..31T-n                  5'(11 .     0"*  a'O1d  '104T    93201a.  _-1 1043 *0  -3
S- 133   9030043  -I(230 3-04 ti---l :1     M          AI-on2315  313C  psI-u_.  9.20pnP 00.n.   Pa 33m1  esIfl !- 33   911)440   40
10101o  401q*0403   -Cl00.       .20 1R.I1       LI3d-Ol  C4i- Olt-i                          nna   9'061'             " .qfly  P-   f 913042 zu 330T 3
ICU393 J-" (3343        MMinild2 2-_s Oasse  .1-_ law  523J23              10x   -sJW   1.93311 i... 33410 -wOa    -  wa4330  30   :jlq
ov --dn-eo           _d  303-a  b51034   £301   un-UrnT 31C103ad              3.ila *               1  3354 30 AP lo n 00.ss  - (.ini -in ---   -12033130 m3
30.3233 Aq 90613303 - (931'6 pa R002 .3 43043 -l   301  9. Olns_As                  o1 "a-nq' -d 03351P T          - (PO--P -t  --3 4131"  (s-I 300.3 9tt3
mtltCi3MI 3030:          -P1 Litt 900 6.14  .1-jtt 'A"9 -33 2-3W   nM 1.T"a ~  tel    -n p-;a
--P P-13 JO 40*t. 01F201£ - f6-l 9P.  I1 ..3100   1304r30  a
'021l3    I 3301 t0 Ow2 ..30                                    .323 I31 "a outi 't-f   i :9 &z1   P'A 91103
9- SS PM St 331 aI-tt4dd 301153.  - 03103         P-d- 'p T'   al 305*0      911     . OT4 '1 WA q p-od-ad 'Pi.- 033 --J CiCl  - - i.1edl 33103
.--.o3~t601.3  M33 CIO  fWmbn                          Jp --1W Er "a 0Owaid iulo . 30 1333   (1   COOq  MR.3 3300t33fi
- P-.Ca -13 kO1 Pa 'M..2154d O%3 F  -330203  x-.f-3t .w                           -P-o. 05041     I.- IU3' -1 ORl P491340 -030 03 M014* 30 '.1.-d3 -nl
00- 030li34 .,an - v03.q as -O%L  -..'p 001 POO '0163  0441                "a tuowoJ 30333  wz "a lop 3.4 -q.aa   In    3-SO2    J.   --ix.
14a2fs  00  11*10- oanslttd -"a-J "a 01-- 't020   30 a*0230 d1                      -ri.la  3.; 4.3-d3 vesf lAq VM301102t  -*i~   oja;5
- -J 503  331  -30  "a '0103 -TOIn - Pnoho. -a. 0*20  £1T13112                 -03*30  - 9u513p T1 Pa; r' lid    -N  £rp ad P00  3 £144ddl
30 M11o412t33f - -I-)0 900 '1-1  'I52   - (35313) 0303 Ma"i3ri333                031402 Od 30 230103i333  - 4009:a -131330.31-Oa  J0 *7d*- ..14.. w*
.-.P09 33       M1106                                             .P.1 "aAi  Ot~l   lt P-3 OM4 '541441 '1t"C  WI.%-
ZnC3. 3.30  IPnOl 303.33.0--30      -I33  OPM *03  'AII23hion-. 933              TP.  1- -J  130 -  OL GI     li "a 'tn3.Wd13,  30 -U"7q11O; -   "a
331310153  '01331 -20a11'UrI. 01  -J1*  1040  - (2.30)£3s93                       3  '3t33   PCq -l3-06- 0"'3311393u3  %2t003 "a L3la
.-OP GMT% "a 3L6.1 '0461  -J-W I00303 JC4     ON 1023   -03203. SO  qT;T         -3330t        -j 3900  :o2I3010.A4  - 9a034 M, Sq p-lTeI. 01302
"a1130  '£3-l1a '2333  -- 3*0 30307 - 4302C) 023239-03106.33                                  .  ...2t4s26 TV31  -1tC  Va. '301-10d P-o  o onu P.- iat6
'530  Jaqfl 1-  10ln-u   -0    -401 012-   T- (. =34  Clp 0                                'p003 lelue O9t.1- 30i'- 23-  13020. 31 351u3q  pa .i.u
--wP omit "a 01et 'cml '.j403040a3 me                 30.. I3.0 -"T            .4z' 13-9p 01-3 *Citdt 0Tq.i032' tiop aad
-o 03132-3  I.J  Ct 301315120    SOP 11 it. a. iwtOdOd 351330                       *.I-' .30d £3300  Mrn .1r,rojo nlddtu  POO; 130 J. mtu1rI.atb  hi
'030 -0sp3   01315304 lCPut1- 134 90Aa1d.t 960 0-1J"a1                              303 90t'a33 - (0p033C  30 3303*34  oo3io            .rJSi3in- 
3313lldi-0013.41121  £i11-3-ta3l - 0(i-43q7i.-A -fWI I                         "-nf  cell "a'ae  'SP-19I :*23xla  n'i  baa.pl lOsi-. P00T-~
3c4 33903                 - p-Oq.3          q-200250  30 njy.ap-zd 3tOlP    ppn   -00
"a  -SJjd  30-) .333la- O1r1302 "a -i413 CJP 43116 (300- 3. PbO-M
n3t  014  "a                       s..)130  ti    693*43313  3130  -130 9-33   3i"4. ...1 Apsll
30--51  Cj.2,4P 33 3C10153 VIPi-TaO '1-6 ORI IN1339 9100 03V2                   "  90  "a p00  1Ps133  00120331   l042203-  P-fl Ir. 60 Oi10.
30 15130 "I3  "0   -A10 -Cd 032403 30d SO33    ~                 3          I-*  Oita  aad J. .."I - (00TIi-cmW0 O1iri ."3 -C12--P-3  P003 I-  63M
'43C30 ~  ~     ~     M.                                                                                                       cl130   -C   0304  2  i.41o.  40vtiEfh   t  -D
931655  13  -     1b5 ..pall  tL I3' P-e----P               ttut
trognsudw-pon, '..xCod.. 3osw. it-eOM A11- a. 1 ".110r33                                                              -doZ3 .IP  M-3    -a  p0113  1T.
-la3 &.-30  04S ..a - (31030   0303a)t021131   .000                              01a   -t-P..  1313-31   .334  gzOCL  9-It) J0 0tn.p1a   p  a
-_lOU.OJC 2-330 AL 363 011133-. 4*i             3 "a  nna   -I                   psm0s  '0 O - - - m   T-(      90313  10 333*) 0313  - M00-." A3110
olnlss  AL P9031t  s33tn  onats40  P_s-q. -ad 2i144 T.nw                            34- S1nod £3T304 1303236  J0.30340'  -P-a   _..P23                   JO2a-4 41
01  133.01  -03 011303  Al - (1-`t2q3    P_4 -q p01.33.4   -310130  Al        -%a40n  p- -q- TOO    - (31su)3Ta-0 -snn'   0001   ti-A
'3t..103*1  9301100  -012a3133'gi P. '0GRit 'iiI  301 M30 -*0.3C   3.-Ail l-ta :*'- L3iti
l 340d-. -q  -1 A-   -            ;.3413020  3209 !10333 T10.0            --1  nn30-d.-I 3"a.od  -o.jaCo  4  ST PO~ --IpOoa- l0-a-10
01013  M,i2O1i3130.t * --A 3.rLS "a On3630 Ci *3131- *3 90-011                   1  -4 In.* MOM 0             J3.p 30 1S    100,a  - 023  001UOS303 002
-SO30.1-  130123134310 93--004  -04 aItd l'3-.  .1  3.iaiw2poati "aO 'I.  -OUT :el.wdod
01903 aog oa.-   ;.s 4CL  ii - :01114*  9          %304 3-31 313130  019r3              1054'9      P "aOt¶4  34 s4103p i0  - (P-s30u4   -J0 0303 Rt3c u.33
'-033-1 £-11113                                                  -Plowl~ P.- '016  '0441 '1101343
--R0300  'n-WWq .3pO23  !,.s*04 391*34210 -q           i3300- 31330Ofi13g 30 90034  iOd 04231 1.11 13300 - (P--.%. 1*) *353 4331  1035
3*1  oIO   il  *sa.   (011-1030d 961313  d  30 3.30.5                                                          'o.t 0t0 '31-301 '02-Out 303 .01101
.3na11m     ..in44 usqi  p. o.-  93-A3 113    - 03-33 - 63.30)3A  4 2*03 q 5 01301034l
'1-0441 "at '01 -0961 '04-3(41 313 a:3134T.& -r
CO.    007 "a-A gi 90W. -l32.10d 3T.9 1O.20  Jo 043-31001                    -pi. 1320  P. -0333 923-.C I"aw  -       - -- 4lt.321   15= 1*3 n01t
(Olin "    9330  0143j --I393  --502  - (2.033*0) 023    -106   t1.                                                 103  16   a        ,i '0961 '30110
'sIn.! 3o9040332                .334ia£-   10..2.3111d -0 T-3*  "a                              [---A)931033  '30
'413  31.330` 33 O1s45  Sq  -aa   iruLo3  "a £1314                            it  .40an-o3.  '(sito  ,1-0l 053*10 - (033)33135*y31330
01 93101 30033   0  - "0p0.3  "aO 13013 - 0130  304333-I3;34                                                            -~P 43.190  i  '03. '113
'330113311-0  41.933   30 onsizSsp  .P 30 12-                   0401              -J3133 -3w30   03003  p033-3 - "a-  1033133130  -R l-5 -0
-p-dO    .  02.ibsdas421*3133.8  1.23  '33133  10130  Cpn                                                            '0-P 4161 "a 0141 '0961 :OOjr 10302
-3013-1120  103013333 - (i3093i1  P- 130104  -001C13 103010*                    T. (1310230  0013  -03i1'  03.30  ad 013010404 30-,, -  4-ae
'9091.... a2"0  -1-Cl3u4
LITt03-0 a  13u-T30On..oo    !a. P  -.00  3101 M  1 10 £11333                                                                       P'430514 I11*313
*tll   3533331.10            - 2001*10400  ..  10132l.-  '13030 019155d             012313404 £30112.2  30* 04 4  - PO40  -T -313OO033133as
t0t0330 £03  peazdir 10. 004 300 2-1 20 .013a          012290t
£10933    :-MO00  90234033 - risC, f en i  '101   - j04- 31P90-es                  _-.3O11-0  03334311230  Ja -01131  133233 M '41    am 'g    30   410
.08 1-m031 n%3   ; 101311  '4   3*003   nq0 030 .ti4W  -0301            30121-40  34  30. J. 310n34 9113013143 A. 31304 013  0310
oat3C  3 9-300 1      it-200311330   011339010.331   42131*2-2                 a-  023. 01201340  %33132  4   -Ll-M   ;t311 3.5qaiO.          a3
11- 9030d1911        001*0I Mjezn       -.03104.430-1.3  £3013 -VOA2311219 300   utiC   0103    9C0n  Jl 01-1 -                              -To  01p
03132033  pf 3003C033  301-01  £itad 04330300 ON1-4-53       Aa013a0-a -*031331  00 043032  9- '33 A3l- P.-I 011001 "%   3-0  4315 3
01-P1    t '30102 0-15-D..    a05'0 -           - 100323 3101 34p-~l        0-3. 41*3   30 -T 03.32 0013144103111230 -1  0010 -0*0313030
011.3 30TI31013 9023O%04                                      '3-4 T.01110d 313 3933  AT311t-3 P.0
02002   43213110  30 00131-3 Ol 2304  I301  POdPl00  -0-2 01 £3330  R
'O--nnja-d *1-1nd £ti~: 230d "a 1-1 331;  .33011033 A.113301
'£1..-d11    WOTIIt  S"n1W  s 2p- 301  '120  35                  31  11309 T- Uri-mo   0t0.C   0243    .I. -0003  421fl23 31 01*3-
.3203341303213 3.3     l. £32312010 q. =23 T3213*3  13011530-               -01, MIL  '-3,'Vi  -0 011j40- 4 .-303 .;II  I-,3 "a '1-6
- 1020  "a '1-%3  '1010  - (30,11600,t J. 3-tEa  Tal3'1-31301 ---W3             00013  03140 ad- 1301  32- 1*. 30113330  43315 -0 A233243  3~6 2
'ohd p.10ea                 ---no.01  3o3  IC 1 00.1-2- 3320  AU1TO1.- -03 -31-33d Oal21-33
13001331330 3043* "      339  '0*  110 01i-     2l-134 2-0-34300                 fi 00 9I0004    p 2- 301313       I p03100  331- p-  0001 3.0331 ....oI-.,
-a .0s3e5 - 1~  "a 'eqs'ton' - 0001 3- soa.*030 345s ou-"sam13062313  011T30
'Odz.l 10212*1292  --3 93403343                                               -310  aOT F-- '0111 '00661012C2n
San"" 301-31 -R0000s1000  33 40313 0 30  M-aOOIS                 mm                   -3  -f OI 91310 701o3041220  -oqI 10 0lP115  - (II-n jo  --Ol) OSmi3'dad -el
Stn     oni "a '014  '6e94  :l 4i-r 301   C- ( -t003) 1kPC'13101PT.-Z
-PM J. -Ma- M3 A  P-pl-to, -1-314-% -3~1151-3 131323 1*13140
`M-`319300   Al-9  3 13453 ~-n t-l903 P1TOS1o0%  130T1-00iW                                 00159~I.     -    "."  '(AI..
'    M23393£3   0910   01240  90011.3t  '03"2013                       4*   "al I '43- 'gfl '-I-, 304 13-331- . 00  30It  '-t301f M(121t333
'03100   s0.nt4213         r1230314.  01T-i4t~313) AN300  t3113-0  10 S03d-0  t1-W  - 31343 XIs HDtZSC1= A SIM
. Sq 10) 0123344  0 Sq 903.23M 41102-3-0  3-030130  I31i"a" 'pli 1(5104 I6-MI) -1311  Rate PI,..30 904310 0133C-OC  SO 44 90013
43r. 93 330 M 1  '033  '103140016 I.-03   909.121 10  003333 1019               -I.. '3-313  205*3  30330               -la..3021030  40 -MD 3   11-24
'O113  31134-1004 l31l1o14 323nu4003'             A2144  -   1033  1W A
A.31   l10-  4 2- 01423 .30.nqn     nm.240.  '30-23. 001202111             '0109 mal !-lt.; "I1 01 30            `q_0 0411  90 2_43  '3013.3 '-.12-30
03 "a   .-O 1014 n0 90110 PM4 "a 103I303010 4 "a 2300315    14fl 1.30 4T1.A03.-04*. A!3034i2 M3313  1                       110 3 0.10112 - 15141
3.113234003 P 1        033040313  Sq P19136  61',"   '0043                     '-13  4*41  033 P_IOS "a   10             ml.' 913363-   01*33.- .-  -13
3031 .40 032    d 30343011032  - 4i~ M. -*3.0000-1  '30413-3M332029     3-  j. 3003t0  3313t' 01 "a23    '42-30202'30113  01 "a
O323  30 AllTtqnOil3.0 420-049 31319104d                01100  30I.  S .30-0  032 00S  '30631 04  133010  334 4003  * 03 -n2313030   01 3 A3730(
-3O4*   - -.P 4*"a 33l"0I 4303103 0033  23104213  901ll10 3011010404 013 000313  042--091-33 023133  043 ol  -(~n11n30 i-"t'0-1-
300-al J.323-. 3000240043  _~2Mt      pl 019913 900  R23WO436 -023  01p9L O-RO4-501  -03023045  120  Mas: 'a.  333 133'e.) £32-n. 130(43  041 J.
40.13     ax £11333  0342, -W, 0Oieo 3o04q 234*-0 4130 dMaIS £3230303 (Z) "a £3113-  330F00 041 j0 d0033 L33t.  -n 32 11) Oa0 006033 --I"33  oq
'01230  00010  -0-31231  30131030  01t 234  "a '3-.3023                  M 010193  '331101   30 p33013    ....390 P 1332- '33010
Oa1 0133       '2109 04S 3j-11-'V 01 0433-30         P AR00119 3   931324300 "a 00123'1319p90*6910-001J 30t430103  A.  --4 0143000  4 -001
g   Jo   E   ezavjSiu   -mat so iumnhzn
I XH1MN                                                               -ZI-



- 28 -
Popeletit     :t17.5 mllion Cmtd-1979)                                                                           ANNEX  I
CNP Per Capit.: V5$270 (1979)                                                                                    Paae  4 of 6
TAW Uh  - lOOWIC IUIIDbj
Amat
(miLlion  S at                                  A a Crowth 8u-r
redtceOar             curen pet'_)                      4ctu l                                      Prcol ct d        _
1979        1976    1977    1975    1979        190    1U61    1982    1983    I            1985
UATIONAL ACUXOWTS
Gross d_omstc produ.ctd */        4,564.3        6.7      4.?      5.4      3.9     -.5       3,2      3.6      3.6      3.6     3.6
Artcultur-l                     2.210,2        9.o        5      7.4      S.0    -6.1       4.2      3.6      3.6      3.6     3.6
Industry                          549.0        0.9      3.1    -2.2       3.1        -      3.0     4.0      4. t     4.0      4.0
Services                        1,374.8         3.4      5.5     6.5      3.4      4.0      3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4     3..
Consumption                       4,115.8         1.6    12.3    14.6    -3.4        t.7      4.6      1.9      3.2     3.1      3.2
Gross invetmat                      958.6        11.5      2.1     3.8    10.9    -6.2        3.6      3.6      3.6      3.6     3.,
Exports of GUNS                     647.9       16.8   -22.8    -2.4    -2.6    -9.6          1.7      7.9      5.2     5.1      5.3
toports of ;XFS                   1.t58.0        0.5      4.4    34.9   -19.2        1.5    -2.9    -1.1       2.9      2.6      3.-1
Grow national sovitgs               468.0       64.S    -6.8   -58.0    99.4   -16.9   -23.9    19.0            Y.8     9.7      4.i.
PRitCES
CDP deflator (1978 - 100)                       77.2    92.4   100.0   108.5   124.8   140.4   154.4   168.3   131.8   194.5
Exchange rate (T.Sb. per US1)                    8.4      8.3      7.7      8.3      8.2      8.2      8.2     8.2      8.2      8.2
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~r ss.iof COP at NsaPrit$  (2.)                                     AWveragE Anual Increase (2.)
(at currat o_Lonst.t t978 prtceal
1970    1975     1980    1985       990    1970-75    1975-10    1980-85   I1) -4
Gross dosatic peoduct'/                         100.0   LaM0    100.3   100.0   100.0          4.        4.1       3.6        3.6
Agcrtculclrsi                                  36.9    36.9    57.5    47.8    47.9          2.t       S .        3.7        3.;
Iadustar                                      'S.5    14.5    11.9    12.1    12.3           3.7       0.7        3.9        4.)
Serviceq                                      37.2    37.3    31.1    30.4    30.6           6.5       4 6        3.4        3,4
Consumptt..n                                    81.9    91.7    90.3    88.2    86.4           5.9       6 0        3.2        3.t
Gross tmrnstmsnt                                22.5    21.1    20.0    18.0    18.0           0.'       4.6        2.t        3.1
Export. ::tF5                                  -24.0   -28.2   -12.1   -13.    -1S.!          -5.3      -S.'        5.3        5.4
lports GMNF                                    2S.4    31.0    22.5    20.2    19.7         -3.8        4.2        1.1        3.0
Gross tstional savings                          18.3      7.8      9.9    11.6    13.5       -2.4       -3.6        5.7        7.0
As 2 of CDP
PIMLIC FMUSX                                              1970   1975    1979
C%rr*a.c *Z -Tw                                         17.5   20.2   t3.5
Curr-nt ecpendt-Eres                                    16.2   20.'   23.9
Surplus (4) or defi:tt (-)                               1.3       -    -5.4
Capital expendic.re                                      8.3   11.6   12.7
For*iL.  f t  cEn                                        2.0    5.4    6.7
t970_5    1975-110   19110-85   1985-90
0TRM DNDICATORS
GNP grovth rats (e.                              4.7       4.2        3.6        3.6
GIX per capita growth rate (2                    1.3       0.8        0.2        0.2
ICOR                                            5.0        5.5        5.1        5.1
Marginal savings rate                           40.1      -0.1        0.1        0.2
Import elasticity                              -0.8        1.0        0.3        0.8
a/ Estimate
bl Apart Erm trad. projecthno . which Includ  small but offustt iog aunte of Zsnibar trade. all data in ti is table are for Mainland
Tanzania only.
el Projected  ears at constant Prices.
d! At market price; components are epressed at factor cost an, vill not add due to exc1usion of n  indire t taxes and subsidies.
!/ Histortical trrw  from 1973 to 1979 is based on official astLat" . which include subsistence production S oth rate of 8.6. per
aumm,  We asti ate that a zrt  rteaistic growth rate for u.wistence productima ovar this period uld b- nearer 42. per anam.
reducing agricu tural growth to 3.42 pe  anue and CDP grout., to 3.62 per anmm.



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                        Page 5 of 6
.Ipuinti.a    :  17.5 willIon (mid-1979)
s,.r per CapJta; USS27U (1I919j
TAW"zNIA - EXTERNAL TRADE-
Amount                                          Ama-l Growtlh Rates (.)
Indicator          (millien USS at                                     (at constant 1q78 prtees)
currenit prices)                     Actual                   tProected
_______           1979           1976     1977      1978     1979      198-      981      1987     1983     1984       9985
LErERNAL TRADt
'orchandise exports           543.6            7.8    -:9.4     -6.5       6.1    -7.8       2.1      U.S       5.3      5.3       5.3
Major primary products      339.5           9.5    -20.1      -9.7      -0.1    -4.8       3.0      8.8       4.1      4.1       4.1
Others                      204.1            3.3    -18.1      2.7      21.5   -14.9         -      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0
Merchandise imports         1.099.6          -16.4      7.7     36.8    -1B.8      1.0      -3.4     -1.5       2.8      2.3       2.9
Foodgralcs                   19.3         -65.2      23.3    -14.7    -42.4   334.0       -3.0    -47.5         _        -         -
Petroleum                   171.7          11.0   -11.3       12.8      -5.9     2.1      -7.9      5.0       3.1      3.3       3.4
machinery and equipment    515.0          -15.2      25.1     55.1    -10.;    -7.6       -5.4      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9
Others                      393.6         -13.9       0.7     33.9    -28.9    -7.6        0.7      3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0
Export price index                            77.4    106.9    100.0    106.9   122.1    116.6    123.8    136.2    149.4    163.4
Import price index                           81.1      89.5    100.0    118.2   138.2    155.7    173.3    188.5    204.4    220.9
rerms of trade index                         95.4    119.4    100.0       90.4    88.3      74.9     71.4     72.2      73.1     74.0
CrMposItion of Merchandise Trade (Z)                Average Anumal Incre&se(j)
(at current pricer)                         (at constant 1978 prices)
1970     1975     1980      1985     i990     1970-75    1975-S0    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                     100.0    100.0    100.0.   1-30.0    100.O        -4.5       -5.2         5.6        5.5
Major primary products                     59.2      66.3     69.2      67.6     63.5       O.Z        -6.9         5.0        4.1
Others                                     40.8      33.7     30.8      32.4     36.5     -12.9        *1.0         6.8        8.0
-aports                                     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         1.8         2.6         0.9        3.0
Fcodgrains                                  2.5      15.3      9.2      4.5       3.9      44.8        -5.8       -14.1          -
Petroleum                                   8.5      11.9     12.7     13.1      13.7       4.8           -         2.0        3.9
fachinery and equipment                    35.2      30.8     61.2      35.8     36.9       0.7        11.1         1.7        2.9
Others                                     53.8      42.0     36.9     43.6      45.5       -1.7       -3.3         2.7        3.1
Share of Trade vith        3-hre of Trade vith                 Share of Trade vith
Industrial Countries CZ)    Devetopint Countries C)    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)
1970    1975   t1978         1970    1975    198              1970    1975    1978
b!VECrIO OF TRADE
Exports                                    54.0    48.2    68.0         60.0    43.3    23.2                0.6      0.4     0.7
Imports                                    57.9    59.7    76.2         27.3    25.1    17.9                1.2      3.2     0.6
aI Estimate
El Data are for alL Tanzania (Nait1and and Zanzibar)



ANNEX I
Pp tlt : i. fiSl30-                        Page  6  of  6
c.r ':at napi.   I.S all mIll-in 339-1z
-ll' Aof ,- cap, I 11  lieatsla  I lo" I
(Mtl I SobS at cutreat pricevi
todlteter                                                I"h       1-i79 nyr  leril91  1961 11              3990 !.a$                    ag90
uslaa or alLAWUNtS
Import of oIs  eq1 services              350.4    1U7.2     601       all.;     aasJ      7o0..    741.a    *51.1       97.2   31.:.   I..    1.21".9
rf dit1ch, Nrrchemdli  f.o.b.         259.] 3   42.4      S47.7    471.2   31.S         572.7       S.2    111.2       "44.3    oub.;    sql.6  ;.b.)
lorto:.s gope awn sereLe.               377.9    129.9      33.4   2.275.  15,234.1  1.452.7   5.39.5   1716.3   1.963.2   2.lu.9  2*:1.7  I.955.?
of hteh 2%      ilee c.c.f.           3111.4    01         .1.5    71'.3  3.14.5   1.0". l  .2S.1 1.412.9  3.S:.1   :.fl2.a   I.J27t  :.n9.1..2 i..l
rat                                       5.a    -I1.4       I3.3      19.2      l2 I      20.0      21.4       23.3      25.2     2771 2     2S        ;:
GOrroe  account blaanc                   21.0    -93.6   -1.71.    -620.7   -S70.4  -*92.1   -913.1   -152.9   -41,.2  .1.011.9  -.103.2  -3.567.,
orricial irant receipts                   6.2   t11.0    125.0    Z14.1    321.4    3810.9          410.9      11.2     471.7    3I?.9       ¶53.1     Ul'.4
NM  LT 1jn  inet)                       37.1       vii       142.3    151.1    255.6    321.3    S92.7    406.7    453.0          44.9      34.8    712.7
oflfcialS'                             41.2    107.1       14.0    138.1       142.4     1.O    341.     377.5    439.6    476.4   5377              71S.V     
Ptiv.CL                                -3.3     -1.0       -5.7      -.0       93.4    131.1       s0.9      31.2      11.1       3.3      -.1'    .3.4
heue capital                            -29.3    -67.7        30.5    -1.4      -1.7       2.9      52.0      I.D       50.0               -39.0
eamW  in reserves' (-.iecreia)    _       7.      -9.*    -135.9    270.1    .31.9    -20.0    -20.0    -20.0    .20.2    -20 .0                -29.0 -n.o
Inoernatleonal reserveq                 107.3     16.4  - 3l.3         30.2    112.1    112.1       152.1    372.1      192.2    212.1    237.l       117.1
Rese re- a- tnstle swprta                 3.4       f7l       4.2       0.3       1.1       1.1       !:        1.2       1.2       1.2       ':
ZncA CPITrAL MW aE
.rs ii-burennts                          40.5    238.2      32.3    332.S    59.9    761.8
3IIicit.l greans                        6.2    113.0    131.0    214.1    321.4         30.0
Co5cebl;Eoel loans                     40.4      93L4      149.5    112.4    123.3    179.7
DAc-                                 20.1      513j      73.7 r     4.3      33.2      33.2
OEC                                    -       1.0       4.5       1.2       1.2      35.5
IDA                                   S.       29.0      39.3      24.S      39.0      s9.4
Other                                 1.9       5.4-     30.0      72.9      30.4      41.6
1s-coacesaiomal lman                    13.9      25.G      11.8      11       271.7    204.1
Offictal aspect credite                 -       7.1         *      21.7      52.1       6.3
TIRW                                  4.3      17.1      30.1      31.3      16.4      31.8
Other ulCttletrl                        -         -       3.t       7.4       3.3      14.4
PrivCate                               .1       1.2        .3       2.8      97.7    1351
ExIra,i1 Debt
Debt atotAdind   erd dsbnmrsed        322.7  1t246.3   1.21386  1,260.1   1.422.0   1,152.3
Of tctal                            193.4    965.7   1.15385  1.20.1.   1.246.G  1.W4.7
Private                             129.3      40.6      42.1      58.7    155.4    218.5
otisbaurnd debt                       435.4    334.4    340.3    417.3    149.4         179.7
Debt service
Total aertce pimento                  -24.3    -41.?    -51.2    -49.          49.7      93.2
Interest                            -10.1    -19.5    -22.3    -24.7    -32.0    .41.7
Paments es t eports                     7.3       6.4       7.1       7.9       7.1     13.3
Average  ntortit race - w   loan't)       1.6       2.4       3.1       2.4       5.3       4.5
olfietl                                  1.       2.3       1.5       2.4       4.0
private                                 7.0       3.3       9.3       C. 3S
Aveng. e aatucinc eo     a ne.us (yeare)    33.3   38.0      37.7      35.4      21.1      27.3
Offtcal                                39.7 ?    39.       34.7  *  35.4       27.0
Private                                 7.2       5.0      14.3       .-        9.7
As 7 at D"t Oncstanleg
a  ES of lent Recnt
Year (1973)
Uatutity structure of debt outsccndtg
rN trlte  due wtthin 5 Jera                                                                   28.4
lAtwtttese due wthin 10 year                                                                  a2.7
Intnt st *ructure Of debt outateIdn
Zacarest due within rirst year                                                                 3.0
Al KEtSte_t
k' greludns official srant receipts.
s  Includes ftnacing OF prjected gap - IDA term.



- 31 -                                    ANNEX  II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
(USS million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year  Borrower           Purpose                    Bank 1f TW    IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Eight loans, one Third Window loan, and twenty
credits fully disbursed.                                 121.24  29.99  184.74
454-TA  1974  Tanzania   Cotton 2/                                          17.50    1.60
507-TA  1974  Tanzania   Highway Maintenance                                10.20    1.14
580-TA  1975  Tanzania   Dairy                                             10.00    1.86
1128-TA  1975  Tanzania  ltwanza Testtle 21                 15.00                     0.53
6O1-TA  1976  Tanzania   Technical Assistance 2/                            6.00    0.80
606-TA  1976  Tanzania   National Maize Program 2/                          18.00    3.88
607-TA  1976  Tanzania  Frff6 Education                                     11.00    4.55
13U7-TA  1976  Tanzania   k.J&.LLy 2/                        7.00                     0.74
652-TA  1976  Tanzania   Fisheries                                          9.00    5.31
658-TA  1976  Tanzania   Tobacco Processing 2/                              8.00    0.46
1354-TA  1977  Tanzania   Urban Water Supply                15.00                     0.26
1385T-TA  1977  Tanzania   Morogoro Industrial Complex               11.50             1.12
1386-TA  1977  Tanzania   Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.50                        0.69
703-TA  1977  Tanzania   Rural Development (Tabora)                         7.20    3.73
732-TA  1977  Tanzania   Second Sites and Services                         12.00    4.71
743-TA  1977  Tanzania   Trucking                                          15.00    3.54
1498-TA  1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank         15.00                     1.40
801-TA  1978  Tanzania   Second Cashewnut                                  27.50    6.72
802-TA  1978  Tanzania   Tobacco Handling                                  14.00    9.54
803-TA  1978  Tanzania   Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                      12.00    5.18
607-TA  1978  Tanzania   Morogoro Textile                  25.00                    24.50
833-TA  1978  Tanzania   Moragoro Textile                                  20.00    4.55
860-TA  1979  Tanzania   Tourism Rehabilitation                            14.00    9.62
861-TA  1979  Tanzania   Sixth Education                                   12.00   10.11
875-TA  1979  Tanzania   Mufindi Pulp and Paper                            30.00      -
1650-TA  1979  Tanzania   Mufindi Pulp and Paper            30.00                    24.89
876-TA  1979  Tanzania   Fifth Highway                                     20.50   13.18
1745-TA  1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Dev. Fin. Co., Ltd. 11.00                       3.05
1750-TA  1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank         25.00                    13.63
5-24-TA  1979  Tanzania   Dar es Salaam Port Engineering                     2.50    0.09
987-TA  1980  Tanzania   Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                          10.00    9.89
1007-TA  1980  Tanzania   Pyrethrum                                         10.00    7.10
1015-TA  1980  Tanzania   Grain Storage and Milling                         43.00   39.36
1037-TA  1980  Tanzania   Smallholder Tea                                   14.00   12.43
1056-TA  1981  Tanzania   Seventh Education                                 25.00   24.57
1060-TA  1981  Tanzania   Technical Assistance II 31                        11.00    8.07
1070-TA  1981  Tanzania   Coconut Pilot 3/                                   6.60    4.91
1133-TA  1981  Tanzania   Export Rehabilitation Program 3/                  47.10    5.42
1173-TA  1982  Tanzania   Telecommunications I 3/                           25.30   25.30
1199-TA  1982  Tanzania   Songo-Songo Petroleum II 3/                       20.30    3.46
1206-TA  1982  Tanzania   Technical Assistance III 7/                       12.00   10.44
1229-TA  1982  Tanzania   Sao Hill Forestry-Phase II 3/                     12.00   12.00
1271-TA  1982  Tanzania   Urban Water Supply (Suppl.) 3/4/                   4.00    4.00
1312-TA  1983  Tanzania   Dar es Salaam Sewerage and                        22.50   22.50
Sanitation 3/41
Total                                                       275.74  ;1';
if which has been repaid                                  31.66    -
Total now outstanding                                    244.08  4s.,
Amount sold                                 .09
of which has been repaid                 .09
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                          244.08  41.49  713.26
Total undisbursed                                           69.69   1.12  280.02  350.83
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.
2/ Since these projects have recently been completed, loan/credit
accounts wilL soon be closed.
3/ Sixth replenishment; approximate USS equivalent of SDR's.
W   Not yet effective.



-32 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. SUMNARY STATEHENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
(USS million)
Loan                                            Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year    Borrower       Purpose                Bank LI Undisbursed
Nine loans fully disbursed                           196.43
914-EA  1973    EAPTC       Telecommunications       32.50        0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB        Development Finance      15.00        0.95
Total                                      243.93        1.23
of which has been repaid                  82.30
Total now outstanding                      161.63
Amount sold                  24.36
of which has been repaid  24.36            0.00
Total now held by Bank                     161.63
Total undisbursed                            1.23       1.23
1 Net of exchange adjustments.



-33 -ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1J
(As of March 31, 1983)
There are currently 40 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was completed on schedule and credit account will be
closed.  Most of the civil works, including roads const uction have been
completed and trial results have established an effective spray regime
although viable packages for fertilizer use have not been identified. The
project was involved in the villagization process, land use pianning and
the establishment of block farming. Staff continuity and higher level
staff training have been good. However, most appraisal targets have not
been achieved. Cotton production is now declining. A Project Completion
Report is under preparation.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project faced major implementation difficulties, including a
delay In the procurement of boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center, a major
shortfall in the purchase of boats for the coastal centers and a postpone-
ment of procurement of lake transport facilities. There were problems
affecting the quality of wooden boats constructed under the project and
delivered to the coastal center. After considerable discussion of a
possible extension of the project, project activities were terminated on
December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of Janury 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was redesigned in order to intensify project
activities during a three-year extension period from July 1979 to June
1982; however, this redesign had little impact on the production of food
crops because of drought conditions. Inadequate research, extension and
1/These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this context, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



_ 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
prices also discouraged proper crop husbandry. Construction of staff
houses and village stores was delayed due to shortage of building
materials. The December 1982 mission found no 'uprovement in project
implementation and project activities were terminated on schedule.
Credit account will soon be closed.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
The project has begun to show overall improvement in its
implementation. Milk production, technical parameters and budgeting
control have improved, and production cost has been reduced. The large
price increase in July 1980 was responsible in great part for the improved
financial position of the dairies. However, implementation problems
remain, and the closing date has not been extended past March 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project (Phase 1):
US$7.0 million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This first phase project has been completed. While the Closing
Date was not formally postponed, disbursement of committed amounts
continued until September 30, 1982. Credit account will be closed.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Closing Date of this Credit was December 31, 1981. However,
the credit account was kept open to allow the project authorities to submit
belated withdrawal applications for two eligible expenditures - security
lighting and firefighting equipment. Credit account is now being closed.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 70^-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credit2/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Overall project implementarion has -nproved with the easing of
cement shortages and the improved arrangement for diesel fuel supply.
Specifically, the agriculture, land use, and r.ads components are making
satisfactory progress and the water resource development has improved.
With close supervision, disbursement of credit funds has also improved.
The Government has submitted proposals for restructuring and extending the
project beyond the current Closing Date. These proposals were revieved
during a supervision mission in October 1982. However, the mission found
some deterioration in the key crop and livestock components of the project
and concluded that an extension would not be justified. Project account
will be closed on schedule.
2/ Credit No. 703-5-TA (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangements; Credit no. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Factory construction is satisfactory. However, the project is
seriously affected by technical, managerial, and financial problems.
Particularly, the inadequate supply of raw nuts is worrisome. In addition,
the appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at
existing cashewnut factories cont-inue to pose difficulties. The prospects
for operation of the new facilities at full capacity are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979,
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has faced major difficulties. Despite the low volume
of tobacco handled, TAT's administrative costs remain very high. Tobacco
losses during handling remain significant and TAT's ability to organize and
follow through on corrective measures has been limited.  It has hence been
agreed that the project should be scaled down and terminated on schedule on
April 30, 1983.
Credit No. 803-TA - Mbanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984    -
Although some infrastructure components are proceeding
satisfactorily, and housing and vehicles have been provided, the project's
agricultural components are not making significant progress. This is due
not only to problems of project implementation but also to general factors
affecting the entire agricultural sector such as the pricing of
agricultural produce and inputs, marketing problems, input supply
constraints, and deficiencies of agricultural services (e.g. research,
extension and credit). The Government has submitted proposals for project
redesign and a joint IDA/IFAD mission visited Tanzania in December 1982 to
discuss these proposals with the Government and project staff.  The
redesign proposals were amplified during the mission, and it was agreed in
principle that the greatly reduced investment program should be
implemented.
Credit No. 987-IA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Effective-
ness Date - May 18, 1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
TRDB is facing growing financial and managerial problems, due in
part to the pervasive problems of the agricultural sector. TRDB is
preparing programs to deal with the issues.



-36-                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 illion
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1985
The Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board's operating costs are proving much
higher than expected at appraisal and it may not be possible to reduce them
sufficiently in the course of the project to ensure economic production.
The closure of the extraction plant at Mafinga will result in important
transport savings for TPB; however, these will not be significant enough to
improve prospects for the crop. Urgent steps are to be taken to reduce the
operating costs of TPB and to. improve the marketing of its products.
Expenditures for certain new investments (e.g. headquarters building for
TPB, staff housing and possibly some road improvement) are to be
eliminated.
Credit No. 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$14.0 mllion
Credit of August 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date - April 27, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
The project started slowly due to delays in appointing the
General Manager and the Chief Engineer. Some start has been made in the
tea =ursery and fuelwood planting. The Ukalawa factory site has been
selected but the construction of this facility may be delayed, pending a
significant increase in tea productlon.
Credit No. 1070-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.8 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1986
Imp1lmentation of the project is progressing well, largely due to
the quality of staff in the field. However, the Mainland Govenment has
decided to allocate only TSh 3 million of the TSh 9.5 million in local
currency needed for the project in 1982/83. Management is hence attempting
to resolve this problem.
Credit No. 1015-TA - Grain Storage and Killing Project:
US$43.0 mllion Credit of April 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
July 15, 1981; Closing Date - June 30, 1987
Because of the uncertainties regarding the organizational
structure and future responsibilities of the National Mlling Corporation
(NNC), project implementation bas been substantially delayed. Detailed
proposals for the reorganization of cereals handling and distribution are
still being discussed in Tanzania. The Bank will now suggest that
Government provide adequate re-design proposals which will then be
appraised.
Credit No. 1229-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project (Phase II):
US$12.0 million Credit of May 19, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
March 16, 1983; Closing Date - December 31, 1987
This credit, which is a follow-up to the first phase project,
becuae effective on March 16, 1983. The afforestation program consisting



- 37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
of planting, replanting, weeding, pruning and fire break maintenance are
being implemented well; however, the ancilliary and support services are
experiencing some difficulties.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Overall project completion has reached 65% and about $6.3 million
have been disbrused. However, because of the domestic financial
constraints, the shortage of building materials and the dispersed locations
of the village staff housing program, it will not be possible to complete
the project as planned. The Credit account will soon be closed.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25,
1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
Civil vorks are underway at two vocational training centers and
three technical secondary schools and are due to start on the Dar es Salaam
School of Accounrancy. Implementation is slow with resultant cost
increases. However, all components (with the possible exception of the
postponed MANTEP - management training for education personnel) are
expected to be completed by project closing date.
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Education Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
Implementation is proceeding slowly due to (i) staff constraints
in the Project Implementation Section; (ii) delay in Government decision on
location and staffing of the Coordinating Unit for Research and Education;
(iii) delay in staffing and equipping of the National Exaniration Council
and of the Tanzania Elimz Supplies; and (iv) shortages of materials.
However, in Zanzibar, work on the nv; Teacher Training College is ahead of
schedule, staff houses are now available at the Nkrumah Training College
and preliminary surveys of sites have been made.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project: US$14.0
million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness -
August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation generally is progressing much slower than
anti-ipated at the time of appraisal mainly due to delays in execution of
building works for hotel rehabilitation. All posts for technical
assistance staff have been filled. The construction site identified for the
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute (ETTI) proved to be unsuitable because
of size and shape, thereby delaying implementation of this component. An
alternative site has been located and preparation of preliminary design is



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
about to start. Improvements to the airport terminal were dropped because
the Government was able to secure bilateral financing for a new passenger
terminal building. Vehicles for anti-poaching activities have been
received and allocated to TANAPA and the Ngorongoro Conservation
Authority. The Closing Date will need to be postponed if IDA involvement
is to continue.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all
equipment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, it became
necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to address organiza-
tional problems encountered in its implementation.  The previous Closing
Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
adequate time for completion of the project. However, withdrawal
applications will be accepted up to June 30, 1983 to allow an orderly
termination of project activities.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Although implementation has been slov due to delays in creating
Regional Transport Companies and in procuring trucks, improvement has been
recorded recently with the delivery of all original estimates of trucks and
the Government's contribution to the National Trucking Company for equity
in the transport companies has been increased. Technical assistance has
been extended since 1978; currently about 15 experts are assisting in the
project implementation. All five regional trucking companies were created
in early 1981 and a Board of Directors was appointed, with adequate
management staff to support it. They are all operational and have recorded
profits between 12-25Z for the first half of the current financial year.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.0 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3,
1980; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This is a follow-up to credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of
the national trunk road system. All three key advisers and six key local
staff are now in post. However, technical assistance for the Morogoro
Training School has yet to be recruited and an action program for
recruitment and training of staff has yet to be prepared. All 120 students
are receiving training in various engineering colleges overseas and are
making good progress. Contracts for the supply of road maintenance
equipment have recently been awarded and some of the equipment have been
delivered.



- 39 -                     ANNEX I
Page 9 of 15
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Credit No. 1173-TA - Telecommunications I Proje.:t; US$27.0
million Credit of March 4, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
November 1, 1982; Closing Date - June 30, 1986
This credit became effective on November 1, 1982. Physical
implementation of the project is well underway. TPTC's financial position
is also considered acceptable.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Port Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit uf February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness
- August 13, 1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is i. gressing well.  The consultants have
submitted a number of reports and drawings to the Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity (THA) for their review and comment. The only major problem is one of
coordination concerning the commissioning of the new oil jetty which re-
quires that the pipe work link to the refinery and the existing network be
completed and ready for use at the same time as the jetty. THA has been
asked to decide on who will design and carry out the actual site work, as
well as finance the foreign exchange costs. The original Closing Date of
September 30, 1981 was postponed a second time in order to complete project
work.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of Novemger 3, 1977; Date of Effective-
ness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
The project was reshaped in 1981 to accelerate progress, to trim
the scope, complexity and cost to a more achievable level commensurate with
emerging experience of actual implementing capacity and to recognize newly
recreated city councils, which did not exist at the time of project
appraisal.  Some problems are still being experienced due to shortages of
trained and experienced management and manpower and equipment and spares,
but overall progress is satisfactory. All civil works contracts have been
let and 83% of the work has been completed. Special units have been
recently established to address the continuing problem of consolidation
under the first project and to initiate cost recovery. Progress is evident
on both fronts. Collections are now underway in all Urban I sites and are
starting up in Urban II sites as works are completed.



- 40 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of Janury 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
The Borrower's performance under the project has generally been
good. Water treatment and distribution facilities have been largely
completed.  Establishment of a National Urban Water Authority (NUWA) which
is to own and operate major urban water supply systems in the country, was
approved by the Parliament in April 1981. Implementation of the project
has, however, been dominated by the poor performance of the main civil
works contractor for the Mindu dam. After being given several opportuni-
ties to improve his performance, the contractor was dismissed in August
1981 and a new contract was awarded to the second lowest evaluated bidder
at the time of the original contract award in December 1978. In view of
the major delays and problems which have affected the completion of the
dam, the project's foreign exchange cost increased by about US$11.0 million
over the appraisal estimate. Completion of the project is beingfinanced by
a supplementary credit from IDA (US$4 million) and a grant from CIDA
(US$3.2 million). US$3.8 million is being provided from Ln. 1354-TA by
diverting funds intended for other project components.
Credit No. 1271-TA - Urban Water Supply Project
(Supplementary): US$4.0 million Credit of December 9, 1982;
Closing Date - December 31, '984
This credit became effective on June 7, 1983.
Credit No. 1312-TA - Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation
Project: US$22.5 million Credit of December 21, 1982; Closing
Date - December 31, 1987
This credit is not yet effective.
ENERGY SECTOR
Credit 1199-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum II: US$20.0 million
Credit of January 13, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
February 23, 1982; Closing Date - December 31, 1983.
This credit became effective on February 23, 1982. Drilling and
testing of all three project wells is now completed, further increasing the
size of the Songo-Songo gas field. The Gas Utilization Study provided for
under the first exploration project, Credit S-27-TA, has been carried out
and is currently under review.



-41 -                    ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA3/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 2W, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5,
1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily.
In the light of the difficult situation in Tanzania, particularly the
severe foreign exchange shortage, TIB is revising its operational strategy
to focus in the near-ternm on providing funds which would enable projects to
replace, balance, or modernize their machinery and equipment, improve
capacity utilization, promote exports, and otherwise assist improvement of
balance of payments. TIB is also being encouraged to use a portion of the
Bank's loan, on an exceptional basis, to meet part of the reqirements for
imported inputs of some of its high-priority projects which are likely to
face very low capacity operation, or even closure, following meagre
allocation of foreign exchange.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Nwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all
technical installations are now operating satisfactorily.  The National
Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owaed textile
mills, has agreed to institute an immediate action progam to improve the
operating performance of existing mills. The project was technically
completed in October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order
to utilize this amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which
are essential parts of the project, and in order to finalize disbursements
on the awarded contracts, the Closing Date was postponed by six months to
December 31, 1981. The remaining balance of US$531,897.91 under the loan
was cancelled on February 1, 1982.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was designed to assist the Government in implementing
its program of economic development through financing preinvestment and
feasibility studies for projects in the productive sectors, special studies
for improving efficiency and capacity utilization investments, and training
3/ In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support
of this project is being administered by IDA.



- 42 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation, evaluation and
related techniques. The credit account was closed and the remaining small
undisbursed balance of US$802,760.46 was cancelled effective January 3,
1983.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Norogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and US$11.5
million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of Effectiveness
- July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of
procurement. Because of some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, the project was not completed in July
1982 as scheduled. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher
than those contained in the Appraisal Report. The most recent supervision
mission for this project recommended that the Closing Date be postponed to
June 30, 1984 to permit construction and equipping of an effluent treatment
plant to serve the Morogoro Industrial Estate as well as the Morogoro
Textile Kill which is being constructed.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million both of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in spite of
some problems encountered with the awarding of the civil works contract.
No further delay is anticipated in project completion.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million credit and US$30 million Loan, both
of April 6, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - April 15, 1980;
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation, including arrangements for
project management, has improved.   Project completion is now expected by
mid-1984.  Project cost has been significantly reduced with savings in
civil works, equipment and particularly in erection. The rebidding of the
mechanical, electrical and instrumentation installation contract (MEI) has
resulted in savings of about US$9 million. However, supplementary foreign
funds will be required to finance the conversion of the mill's boilers to
burn wood fuel as well as coal and oil, to provide additional start-up
technical assistance, and to provide sufficient fuel, materials and other
supplies for the first three years of mill operation.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31,
1983
The loan is fully committed and disbursement is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, there has been a deterioration in the quality of
TDFL's portfolio because of the foreign exchange constraints. An



- 43 -                      ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
increasing number of TDFL assisted enterprises which mainly depend on
imported input are operating at less than break-even capacity. As a
result, arrears in the loan portfolio have increased in the past year.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project: US$11
millon Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981, Closing Date - June 30, 1985
As of March 31, 1983, 24Z of consultants' services allocation has
been committed for 9 projects. Commitments and disbursements under the
training component are proceeding satisfactorily. The Technical Assistance
Unit is functioning efficiently. Scma of the previous problems of delayed
submission of subprojects on training have been overcome.
Credit No. 1206-TA - Third Technical Assistance Project: US$12.0
million equivalent Credit of March 4, 1982; Closing Date -
June 30, 1987
This credit became effective on April 1, 1982. The
FAO/Government contract for the supply of the major portion of consulting
services was signed in January 1983 and the Technical Assistance Advisory
Committee was established In March 1983. However recruitment of experts is
still at an early stage.
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Credit No. 1133-TA - Export Rehabilitation Program: US$50.0
million Credit of April 24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
May 12, 1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
Performance in achieving the stated agricultural objectives of
the project has been generally disappointing. In other policy areas,
recent Government actions show some improvements. Important steps remain
to be taken on pricing, decentralization of internal distribution and
ensuring greater accountability in public sector organization.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently two projects in execution in the East African
Community.4/
4/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding
the East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for Loan 914-EA, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Date for Loan 914-EA has passed.
Hiowever, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each Partner State
is clearly identified under the terms of the Agreement signed on January
25, 1978 as proposed in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing
disbursements.



- 44 -                    ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecomunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items have been completed; the undisbursed
balance of US$264,975.20 under the loan will soon be cancelled and the loan
account closed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October
1, 1977 among the countries concerned is as follows:
US$ million
Kenya                     2.4
Tanzania                  3.5
Uganda                    0.1
Total                   6.0
---
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$13.65 million
of the loan has been disbursed to date.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
Fiscal                                                  Amount in US$ Million
Year          Obligor             Type of Business       Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar      Food Processing            3.96   0.70    4.66
1964       Company
1978     Highland Soap and   Soap Manufacture            1.38   0.36    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products       Household Utensils         1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
Total gross commitments                 6.67   1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                  4.17   0.69    4.86
Total commitments now held by IFC       2.50   0.55    3.05
Tocal undisbursed                      0.06      -    0.06



- 46 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA: FOURTH POWER PROJECT - HTERA HYDROELECTRIC
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                      32 months.
(b) Agency which prepared project:             TANESCO with assistance from
external consultants.
(c)  Project first presented to ID&:           June, 1980.
(d) First IDA mission to review
project:                                  November, 1980.
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:           December, 1981.
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               May, 1983.
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            November, 1983.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) As special conditions of effectiveness: (i) notification by Germany
(KfW) and SIDA that all conditions precedent to initial disbursement
of their grants have been fulfilled; (ii) siguing of the NORAD grant;
(iii) evidence satisfactory to IDA that the French and Italian loans
have been made available (paras. 56 and 72 of this Report);
(b) TANESCO, with the assistance of consultants, to prepare: (i) a
revised medium to long term least-cost power investment program
by Decomber 31, 1984 (para. 42); (ii) a tariff study by July 31, 1985
whose agreed recommendations would be implemented by January 1, 1986
(para. 36); (iii) a management study by June 30, 1985 whose agreed
recommendations would be implemented by January 1, 1986 (para. 50);
and (iv) a rehabilitation study by June 30, 1984 (para. 52). The
Government to carry out a sector organization study by December 31,
1984 and implement agreed recommendations within one year (para. 38);
(c) TANESCO would (i) increase its average tariff level by 20X effective
January, 1984, (ii) switch from a minimum rate of return requirement
under the previous Bank Group lending operations to a cash generation



- 47 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
requirement providing for minimum net internal cash generatlon levels
of 25% in 1985 and 1986 and 40% in each year thereafter (paras. 59-
60), (iii) reduce its accounts receivable to a level of 60 days by
December 31, 1983 (para. 58), and (iv) Government and TANESCO to agree
on asset revaluation formula by December 31, 1984 acceptable to IDA
and thereafter revalue every two years (para. 60).
(d) As conditions of disbursement: (i) no withdrawals would be made in
respect of rehabilitation component until rehabilitation study
completed; and (ii) no withdrawals in respect of main civil works
component after March 31, 1984 (or six months after the date of IDA
credit effectiveness, whichever Is earlier), if either Kuwait Fund
or NORAD financing is not effective (para. 65).



jU G AN D A j.,              
4( I_ar   |f    \kS  W)                    4t dr.l,,@,
R WAN DA                                                                                                           N
m .0- ~ ~    j    6.14.                                                                w
AI IM..  .- ;1.
S                                                                           \u S    /   ,  X   A f   . :.f+X a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ff 4 ,
B U R U N D                             /t  SRu_I                                             MA
----tX,\,,,                                    Mdkulufi    *. -
4f
N                                                                                  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
\      'l
'N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HDOLCRC.                                            K.Ious~
mdu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ne Nundmbu
/~~~F
Z A   M  B   A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                .e~j        I
--   I.             '.    I ) 
-,5 ---
zv ~ ~ ~ ~~r...i   r                                LAW          I      



IBRD 16231
UGANDA             F
l k> X ____ , , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KENYA 
N                           A ,t,- -.-.s}~V-                                                            A N A  A N I
K'   NYA _  :                        .'...v.-         Z A I R E        T; N  5. 
-                      iru              >      -.7 I                                              J lw.3                N kB1
r-   r?  (>-                                                                                                            N   
5   J                    \  '\   >              \  {   /                         T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANZAs IA
--I                                                                                              T  N  A,.'  N I .
~~~~I- ,.-         K !-,  lfi
N.
'  tS -~"--'~N                     A  132 kVErCoP COMA Y
So.~~~~~~~~~~AN  HEPOOSDPRJC
PLANN   Z    NI
PQcrE  CA LR,0E   EXUIIG
POWER S_TOS
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . Die:3 e 
TRANSMISSION LINES:
ML=   ~ ~ ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -220kV
132Wk
132 kV subanxw-e cable
.......66 kV
M1 _> W_                                           /                                                 kT Twieo  OfFires
\Y~EC~C               ) Kijosa           - -n
'~ ~ ~~i )                                         - .IRGR        ~ ~ -                                        -     MJnia
CENTER                 ___
-c                        4 ~~~~~~~~-,~~~~--)z~~~~~~~ 5..                                    dr~~~Saxkyroaaws
AInmtiwitinoprt
-~Sh&I. d service awporrs
_>=                                     Rulo-Cy,_                         'ivers
IRING                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hiemationol boundanes
I ~~~~~/                                                         - 
;- - ->   M   k0.. O  -       
K:;&q~TESC   20  do  60  812  IM  120  1L0  160
L.I              -          MI~~~~~~~~~~E3~~~~  20  -D  NO      ao     id
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCr
T~~~~~~
I- ~~~-~-- ~MOZAMBIQUE






