.Docuient of
The World Bank.'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1,1   32V?. 1
Reprt RNo. 8644-iND
STAFF, APPRAISAL REPORT
ZNDONESIA
-       SE,COND BRI IMPEDES S4ALL CREDIT PROJECT
July 10, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division -
Cotntry Department V
Asia Region
. is do_etl has a esotd dubufte  ad may be usd by recienonly in th pdoa    of
thek ofticW dute. Its contents may not otherw  be disdosed without Word Bak authoizon.



-=-        CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit = Indonesian rupiah
(as of May 1, 1990)
US$1.00           Rp 1,830
Rp 1.0 billion  -  US$0.546 million
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia   - April 1 - March 31
Bank Rakyat Indonesia      -  January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPINDO      -   Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Bank of Indonesia)
BI           -   Bank Indonesia
BKK          -   Badan Kredit Kecamatan (Rural Credit Institutions)
BPKP         -   Agency for Financial and Development Supervision
BRI          -  -Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CP&F         -   Credit Processes and Procedures
DMB          -   Deposit Money Bank
GDP          -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -   Gross National Product
GOI          -   Government of Indonesia
JSE          -   Jakarta Stock exchange
IMP          -   International Monetary Fund          --
IPTW         -   Prompt.Repayment Incentive
(KIK         -   Kredit Investasi Kecil (Small Investment Credit Ptogram)
MKPm         -   Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (Small Permanent Working Capital
Program)
IUPEDES      -   Kredit Umum Fedesan (General Village Ciredit Program)
LPPI         -   Indonesia Bafiking Development Institute
MOP          -   Ministry of Finance
NES          -   Nucleus Estate Smallholder Projects
PDFCI        -   Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PIP          -   Performance Improvement Program
PPAR         -   Project Performance Audit Report
PT ASKRINDO  -   PT Asuransi Kredit Indonesia (Credit Insurance Company of
4     .        Indonesia)
SBI          -   Sertifikat Bank Indonesia
SBPU         -   Surat Berharga Pasar Uang
SCB          -   State-Owned,Commercial Bank
SEDP             Small Enterprise Development Project
SIMPEDES     -   Simpanan Pedesan (Village Sayings Program)
TABANAS      -   Tabungan Nasional (Small Saving Program)
UBM          -   Untt Desa Business Manager
UDO            - Unit Desa Qfficer
)   USAID      -   United States Agency for International Development       X



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLV
INDONESIA
SECOND BRIIKUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaryt       Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
Amounts            $125 million equivalent
Termss             Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate,
Onlending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to BRI for twenty
years, including a grace period of five years, at a
variable interest rate pegged to Bank Indonesia's (BI)
three-month domestic money market certificate (Sertifikat
Bank Indonesia--SBI). The rate would be adjusted on
January 1 and July 1 of each year, based-on the average of
SBI three-month maturity quotations during the preceding
six months, not to exceed the average of end-of-day
quotations of the five state-owned commercial banks' three-
month time deposits during the same period. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.: On July 1 of each
year, at the request of either the Borrower or the Bank,
the basis for determining the onlending rate would be
reviewed. BRI would also pay commitment fees equal- to
those payable by the GOI to the,Bank under the loan. End-
users would borrow these funds at rates reflecting
prevailing market conditions; effective annual-interest
rates currently range from 22.7 to 31.7 percent, based on
loan amount.
Project
Description:      The primary objective of the7project is to promote BRI's-
ongoing efforts to strengthen and expand its Unit Desa
system as a financially viable subbranch network that
mobilizes resources and provides nonsubsidized credit
(KUPEDES loans) nationwide to creditworthy small borrowers.
The project will also support continued development of
BRI's institutional capability as related to its Unit Desa
system.
The project comprises three componentss  (a) a credit
component for general-purpose KUPEDES financing; (b) _q
capital expenditure component for the expansion of BRI's
five regional Unit Desa training centers, including
computer equipment; and tc) technical assistance for long-
This documrent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may *ot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
.  l



v---eriM advisory and shortterm counsulting services le-
developing and iproving BRI's Unit Desa and rural banking
activities.
Risks:           The project supports a market rate-based scheme designed to
meet the needs of small borrowero and small savers. Under
the project, the Unit Desa system would be expanded and
continued access to credit by eligible borrowers would be
ensured. Substantial socioeconomic benefits can be
expected from an expanding KUPEDES program. The major
risk--portfolio deterioration--is mitigated by BRI's
satisfactory track record to date. Appropriate staff'
training and advisory support services will contribute
towards the continued implementation of sound lending and
supervision procedures that are assoclated with the
maintenance of high-quality loan portfolio.
Estimated Costes:
Local    Foreian    Total
----- (US$ million)-
Total KUPEDES Loan Disbursements      1,827.1     783.0   2,610.1
(Of whichs  incremental
portfolio growth)          (357.3)   (153.2)   (510.5)
Capital Expenditure
-  Construction of training centers         2.-    2.5          !.9
Computer equipment                      0.1      02   _  0.3_
Policv Development Technical Assistance  -          2.3       2.3
Total Project Cost                 1,829.6     788.0   2,617.6
Financing Plans
IBRD                                      -       125.0     125.0
Incremental Unit Desa saVings
mobilization                          263.1      33.2     296.3
Other BRI/.Unit Dela system
resources                              96.7       -        96.7
Repaymentslof previous KUPEDES
loans                               1,469.8     629.8   2,099.6
Total Financing                    1,829.6     788.0   2,617.6
Estimated
Disbur_ements 
Sank FY          1991      1992       1993      1994
…-------- (US$ million) ----------
Annuall          32.3      61.1       30.8       0.8
Cumulative       32.3      .93.4     124.2     125.0
Rate of Returns   Not applicable..



- iti -
INDONESIA
SECOND BRIIKUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pama No.
I. SECTORAL ASPECTS    .      .......... ............... I......         1
A. The Financial Sector ...      ..      ..... .. *9 * * * * * ........  1
Background             .......... ****#**#                    1
The Reform Program        ........................* * a * *.............  1
Future Agenda and Priorities ...........................      3
B. Characteristics of Small and Family Enterprises ........ ....     3
C. Financial Services for Small Savers and Borrovers .........       4
D. Bank Objectives, Strategy and Role in the Pinancial
Sector  ........ ...............................................  6
U1. EXPERIENCE UNDER PAST WORLD BANK GROUP FINANCIA SECTOR
LENDING OPERATIONS ............................... ,.*9* ..          7
III.  PRESENT STATUS OF THE BENEFICIARY AND THE KUPEDES PROGRAM ....       8
A. Bank Rakyat Indonesia ..     ...................... ... ...       8
B. The BRT Unit Desa System and the KUPEDES Program ..........       9
Background       ........      ........  9........*.. 9
Project Implementation Under Loan 2800-IND .............     10
Organization ............................... ..*... ....... ...0......   ll
Scope and Terms of KUPEDES Lending.....................      13
IUPEDES Lending Operations ................ ...........      15
Characteristics and Impact of KUPEDES Lending ..........     15
Unit Desa Administration and Financial Operations ......     18
Funding of the Unit Desas and Resource Mobilization ....     18
Financial Position and Performance of the Unit Dsss a...     20
IV.  THE PROJECT........ ........................................        23
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Content .............. ...  2S3
B. The Credit Component - Operational Projections
and Resource Requirements ..............................9      24
C. Capital Expenditure and Technical Assistance Components...       26
D. Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan .................      27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in March 1990.
Mission members were Charles Magnus (AS51E-task manager), Kathlien McCollom
(ASTDR) and Victor Agius (AS5RS).



- iv -
Pate No.
IV. THE PROJECT (cont'd)
E. Features of the Loan ......................................      29
Lending Arrangements       ......................            29
Loan  Administration .............................           30
F. Project Benefits and Risks ................................      33
V.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDDERITAN1)INGS.. . ......   ........................  33
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1  Financial Institutions Serving Small Borrowers and Savers
in Indonesia ...                       ..... .*.................... . .....  .4
3.1  Total Resources Available to the Unit Desa System, End-1989...  20
3.2  Indicators of Unit Desas' Financial Performance, 1984-89 .....      22
4.1 Actual and Projected Total Resources Available to the Unit
Desa System, End-1989 and End-1992 ............ ..........*..   25
4.2  Sensitivity of Projected Total Resources Available to the
Unit Desa System to Changes in Growth Rates, End-1992 .....      26
4.3  Total Project Costs. ...... . ............         .. .... ..       28
4.4  Financing Plan .......................................              29
4.5  Procurement Method ......................    . . .........          31
ANNEXES
1.   Documents Available in the Project File
2.   Bank Rakyat Indonesia - Institutional Aspectsi
3.  World Bank Group/ADB Funds to BRI, 1972-89
4.   Bank Rakyat Indonesia Unit Desa Policy Statement
5.   Bank Rakyat Indonesia Unit Desa Strategy Statement
6.  BRI Unit Desa System
Table l  Summary of Actual KUPEDES Lending Operations, 1984-89
Table 2s  Balance Sheets, 1984-89
Table 3:  Income Statements, 1984-89
Table 4: Analysis of RUPEDES Loan Portfolio, 1984-89
Table 5: Projected KIPEDES Lending Operations, 1990-92
Table 6:  Projected Resource Requirements/Funds Utilization
of BRI Unit Desa System, 1990-92
7.   Estimated Cost of Capital Expenditure Component
8.   Terms of References  Long-Term Advisory Positions
9.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
CHART
1.   BRI Business Unit Desa De,artment
MAP
IBRD 20514R1



INDONESIA
SECOND BRIIKUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
l. SECTORAL ASPECTS
A. The Financial Sector
Background
1.1      The financial sector of Indonesia has undergone a major transforma-
tion towards a competitive, market-based system since the initiation by the
Governrent of Indonesia (GOI) in 1983 of a comprehensive program of policy
reforms. These reforms were introduced in stages, in conjunction with real
sector reforms, and within the context of an open capital account and a G0o
policy of refraining from domestic financing of budget deficits. As a result,
the reforms contributed to a strong revival of private sector investment, non-
oil export growth, improvements in the efficiency of capital use and faster-
than-expected economic growth.
1.2      Until the early 19809, the development of the financial sector in
Indonesia was constrained by the imposition of interest rate and credit
ceilings. The Government played a large role in the allocation of resources
through the liquidity credit system, under which low interest loans to
priority sectors were automatically eligible for refinancing with Bank
Indonesia (BI), and often with substantial government guarantee. The
financial system compriied mainly the banking sector, which was dominated by
BI and the five state-owned commercial banks (SCBs),1/ accounting for about
80 percent of the total assets of the deposit money banks. Strict control was
kept on the entry of new banks and of the branching of existing institutions.
As a result, the growth of financial assets stagnated and the securities
market did not develop.
The Reform Program
1.3      In June 1983, the GO  implemented the first in a series of reforms to
improve the efficiency of the financial sector.  Interest rates were
deregulated and credit ceilings were replaced with a system of reserve money
management.  These reforms were followed by the introduction of new money
market instruments in 1984 and 1985. Additional financial sector reforms were
undertaken during October-December 1988. The main objectives of these reforms
were: (a) to enhance financial sector efficiency by encouraging competition
by eliminating entry barriers; (b) to increase the availability of long-term
finance by promoting the development of capital markets; and (c) to improve
the stability of the financial system by strengthening prudential regulations.
1/ These are Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Negara Indonesia (BNI), Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BEII) and Bank
Bumi Daya (BBD). All are participating in the Bank's Second Export
Development Project (Loan 2979-IND) and the Industrial Restructuring
Project (Loan 3040-IND). All except BEII are participating in the
Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project (Loan 3041-IND).



-2 -;
Specific reform measures includeds (i) permitting the entry of new banks,
including joint ventures with foreign banks; (ii) easing restrictions on
establishing new branches; (i1i) allowing banks and nonbank financial
institutions (NBFIs) to increase their cap. 1. through share issues;
(iv) permitting public enterprises to place p to 50 percent of their deposits
with private banks; (v) easing the requirements to become a foreign exchange
bank and allowing NBFIs to issue certificate of depositsl and (vi) allowing
banks to have subsidiaries that are multiservice financial companies that
provide leasing, factoring, consumer finance and venture capital facilities.
To spur the development of the domestic short-term money markets, restrictions
on interbank borrowing were removed and required reserves reduced to 2 percent
of all bank third party liabilities. To encourage mobilization of long-term
funds and risk capital, the reformss (a) moved towards equalizing the net
returns to savers holding different financial assets; (b) allowed the private
sector to operate stock exchanges and established an over-the-counter (OTC)
markets and Cc) permitted foreign investors to buy up to 49 percent of the
shares in each company listed on the stock exchange. In addition, measures
were adopted to enhance prudential regulations by defining loan concentration
ratios and by establishing rules to prohibit insider trading on the stock
exchanges. These measures were complemented by a program of institutional
strengthening of BI to strengthen its supervisory capabilities.
1.4      The reform measures yielded substantial positive results as evidenced
bys (i) the increase in the number of new banks and other financial
Institutions; (ii) a quadrupling of the gross assets of the finAncial sector,
reflected by an increase in the ha:GNP ratio from 21 percent to 33 percent and
a more than doubling of private sector financial savings over 1982-89; and
(iii) a fifteen-fold increase, albeit from a smaller base, in the issue value
of listings on the stock market. 'While all banks showed strong growth, the
private banks by far surpassed the SCBs both in relative and absolute terms.
The share of the SCBs' total banking sector deposits declined from 67 percent
to 59 percent within one year of the reforms. The level of interest rates
remained high, but both deposit and lending rates declined in 1989. There was
also a substantial lowering of the very high intermediation margin enjoyed by
the banks in the past. Meanwhile, the share of subsidized directed credits
declined from over 50 percent to less than 30 percent between 1982 and 1989.
However, the directed credit program continued to distort and segment the
financial market, leading to the misallocation of resources and weakened
finaneial discipline.
1.5      The GOI announced another round of policy reforms in January 1990 to
eliminate distortions created by the subsidized directed credit programs. The
number of programs eligible for refinancing was reduced drastically, and the
interest rate moved closer to the market. Insurance, which was compulsory
prior to the reform, was made voluntary and premiums would be market-based.
At the same time, banks were required to allocate 20 percent of their loan
portfolio to small enterprises, defined as those having fixed asset (excluding
land) of up to Rp 600 million (US$330,000 equivalent). In order to foster
further the development of capital market, the GOI also announced its
intention to privatize the Jakarta Stock Exchange. The impact of these reform
measures is expected to be increasingly felt in the near-term, as the
efficiency of financial intermediation improves further and the distortions
caused by the liquidity credits are minimized.



Future ARenda and Priorities
1.6      The Indonesian financial sector is now well integrated with the
international financial markets. The reform measures have led to a rapid
increase In the proportion of private savings intermediated through the
financial system. However, the sector remains relatively small in relation to
the size of the economy (H2 represents just over 30 percent of GDP compared to
60 percent in Malaysia and Thailand). The sector needs to sustain high but
stable growth to enable it to support continued expansion in the real sector.
The January 1990 reforms have put in place the last main component for the
deregulation of the financial sector. The GOI's priority now is to proceed
with a comprehensive program to strengthen financial institutions. To this
end, the GOI is currently preparing new legislation covering the banking
sector, and insurance and pension plans. The GOI also recognizes that a
freer, market-based system requires appropriate supervision. Attention has
thus focused on strengthening the prudential control and supervisory apparatus
for both the banking sector and the capital market. With IMF assistance,
efforts are underway to strengthen BI's supervisory functions. Similarly.
with the assistance of consultants, the regulatory body for the capital
markets is being strengthened, and efforts are underway to deepen the money
markets and to develop a credit information system. Beyond this, the main
concern for the healthy development of the sector is to ensure that the SCBs,
which, despite their diminished market share, still account for almost
60 percent of the deposit banking sector, develop into efficient and
financially autonomous institutions. This is likely to require both portfolio
restructuring and equity infusions, as well as follow-up on the institution-
building programs that each of these institutions has al-eady initiated on its
own. The Bank is discussing with the GOI the possibility of assisting in the
areas mentioned above, particularly in restructuring the SCBs, as part of a
proposed Financial Sector Restructuring Operation.
B. Characteristics of Small and Family Enterprises
1.7      Most small-scale economic activities in Indonesia, particularly in
rural areas, are carried out by individuals, or within the family, generally
without the use of hired labor. Families usually have several economlc
activities, and they shift labor and working capital among these to take
advantage of opportunities available.   Rather than continuing to expand one
particular activity, families often prefer to shift part of their resources
into new areas. This reduces the risk of failure. Apart from agricultural
production, these activities incluie the processing and marketing of
agricultural products, trade, cottage-level industries, and work in private or
public construction.
1.8      Ahe most recent data available indicate that the total number of
small enterprises, including those engaged in farming, fisheries, forestry and
livestock, exceeds 27 million. Most are small and employ an average of fewer
than three people, often family members. Over a quarter of the labor force is
self-employed. Small and family enterprises probably account for about
75 percent of total employment in Indonesia, with the majority engaged in
agricultural and trading activities (often, of agricultural products). Small
farms produce the bulk of staple food output and a significant proportion of
export crops such as rubber, coffee and pepper. In manufacturing, the



-4 _
contribution of small entrepreneurs is greatest in domestic resource-based
industries, such as rice milling, furniture and bakery products. Much of the
road transport services is carried out by individual private operators. In
construction, most projects are also undertaken by small entrepreneurs. Small
wholesale and retail traders are essential intermediaries between producers
and consumers, financing and holding stocks of raw materials and finished
products. A number of surveys also indicate that small traders have been an
important source of informal credit in rural areas to farmers who have limited
access to formal credit.
C. Financial Services for Small Savers and Borrowers
1.9     Despite the rapid expansion of the larger financial institutions'
branch networks since the start of the GOl's financial sector reform program
in 1983, except for BRI, few have had more than a mint-al presence outside the
larger provincial towns. At this level and below, banking services are
provided by a wide range of numerous formal and informal small financial
institutions. These are presently estimated to exceed 17,000 in number. Most
operate at the Kecamatan (subdistrict) or desa (village) level, and are owned
by the national, provincial or local governments. Nevertheless, they are
generally market-oriented and serve relatively large numbers of clients. On
the lending side, their focus is usually on short-term trade-related working
capital loans. Table 1.1 below summarizes the formal institutions operating
at the subdistrict and village level,
TW&Ia1.X:; PMWJAL DVJ1fUM SERV8Wl SML 80R11WOR AM) SA IN DONESA
I,atituticn/Progran   Omereip   Garaphil Foe   A1nal Interest ft."   Ha-Min Siz  ve r   Lau-   laturt  Col later  Svng
eon  eclining balance)       t"    )ge     ir Sd
Privote 8J"WS:  Priveta, Main In*ao.,  20 - JO  8 million *    n.e.   Ipte    frl    yOD
I01   Provincial cili                             S  ear  title to
end Dietrict le,                                    real sees
IlRSfUnit Oee/ ilRSS _  n t b           S -     u t.000   a   te mEO toal  yes
Kotes            district l2) IS llti                          t   title to land
a year   or  ther t Ibble
Sank Peoa,   Private  Kecamte       40 - USO    u  to   780,000  up to    full  limited
atarpom  (abdi.tri.t)               I .illIon        1 year   aI"na
reetor   tvl                                                 invntr
Copeative.
Prowvicial  Prewvnctnl  Vil te         I -  510 , 000 -   60.000  up to  r      limitd
credit b dana  So"raunt  v1 1    -100,000                        1 yer  rm 
OX")         O"d
Cooperatives  OWd b   Vii,           8SI      ve. by      -      up o    minimal    limited
Cooptiv                          Cooper,tiva         2 yer
1.10    By far the most important of these operations is BRI's Unit Desa
system which now accounts for over half of the total loans outstanding of the
rural financial institutions. The next most important is the more than 200
Bank Pasars (market banks) which account for about 30 percent of the the
market. Cooperatives and provincial government-owned institutions each
account for about 5 percent.  The Bank's Rural Credit Sector Review (Report
No. 6917), dated April 29, 1988, details the structure and characteristics of
the sector and the various institutions.



1.11     At the lowest level, by loan amount, are the credit activities of the
Xoperasi Unit Desas (KUDs), or cooperatives. Their credit programs are
usually funded from official sources with little savings mobilization efforts.
Loans are to KUD members. Most of the credit programs carried out by the KUDs
are conceived at the national level and are imposed on the KUDs. Their past
track record has been poor, with arrears of 20 percent and more. Only about
14 percent of the KUDs are classified as well-run and self-sufficient. Over
the past four years. the Bank Umum Koperasi Pinjaman (BUKOPIN), with
assistance from the Dutch Government and the Rabobank Foundation, has embarked
on a pilot program to improve the credit and savings mobilization efforts of
the KUDs. Initial results have been encouraging.
1.12     At the next level are the provincial-owned banking networks.  The
best known and most developed is the Badan Kredit Kecamatan (BRK) in Central
Java which was started in 1972. Others include the Kredit Usaha Rakyat Kecil
(KURR) in East Java, Lembaga Perkreditan Kecamatan (LPK) in West Java and the
Lumbung Pitih Negari in West Sumatra.21 Most of these institut$ons are
locally administered and financially autonomous. The main characteristics of
BKK-type credit operations ares little paperwork, no collateral and reliance
on local social pressure for repayment; a post system, or mobile service
(usually by motorcycle) operating at village markets, which compensates for
the limited mobility of most villagers; and the willingness of borrowers to
pay the high interest rates necessary to cover the costs of such a program.
BKK loans are very small and finance mostly market traders. These
institutions have been successful in keeping arrears low (about 5 percent of
outstanding loans) and enabling them to operate profitably. The BKKs' funding
comes from the initial capital provided by the provincial authorities,
mandatory savings paid in by borrowers as part of their loan agreement, and
from annual net revenues. Recently, some of these institutions have started
to provide savings facilities on a pilot basis. The BPD (Bank Pembangunan
Daerah--Regional Developmzw.,Banka) have at times provided technical
supervision to sawt-ThTe BKKs, particularly in the areas of bookkeeping,
reporting ajwtEi and personnel policies.
1.13     There are now over 200 Bank Pasars (Market Banks), of which more than
half are privately owned, mostly by commercial banks. The others belong to
either government or cooperatives. Bank Pasars are generally located in a
province's main city and conduct business in the city and in the markets
nearby. Bank Pasars tend to specialize in short-term loans to small traders,
for which they charge about 3.5 percent per month. Borrowers are normally
required to hold compensating balances of at least 5 percent in noninterest-
bearing deposit accounts (raising the effective annual interest rate to about
44 percent). They also require collateral in the form of inventory, fixed
assets or durable goods with a value of 150 percent of the amount of the loan.
1.14     The BRI Unit Desa network is the single most important nationwide
banking system throughout Indonesia. It comprises some 2,850 Unit Desas
21 Central Java has about 500 subdistrict level institutions (the BRKS)
with about 3,060 village posts. East Java has about 1,600 KURUs and
West Java about 200 LPKs. Best Sumatra has about 150 active LPNs.
Bali has abobt 50 similar institutions.



-6-
(subdistrict or village-based subbranches) and 835 posts. This networtk
bridges the gap between the provincial-owned banking institutions and the
large, usually city-based, private banks and SCB branches. The development of
the Unit Dess system over the past six years has impressively demonstrated the
large potential for small savings mobilization and for introducing small
savers to the formal bankin8 system. Prospects for further growth in this
area, and for developing other banking services, e.g., cash transfers and new
savings instruments, remain significant. On the lending size, the KUPEDES
loan program has developed into the main source of financing for small
borrowers at onlending rates which are not subsidized, permit full cost
recovery, and yield BRI a profit. As of end-1989, KUPEDES loans outstanding
numbered 1.6 million and amounted to Rp 845.6 billion (about $460 million
equivalent). Loan collection experience has been very good. A recent impact
study undertaken by BRI (financed by USAID) shows that KUPEDES has had a
significant impact in poverty alleviation and in facilitating the access of
women to credit.
D. Bank Obiectives, Strategy sand Role in the Financial Sector
1.15     The Bank fully supports the GOI's objectives and its priotiti%Žs in
the further development and efficient growth of the financial cector. Over
the last several years, the Bank has been involved in policy dialogue with the
GOI through sector and economic reports, informal policy notes and discussion
on specific issues. The Bank has also supported the 6OT's reform initiatives
through adjustment loans. In the past, the Bank's involvement in the
financial sector focused primarily on supporting the development of
institutions and the provision of lines of credit to redress market failures
either in the availability of long-term credit or in the access to such credit
for "targeted, groups of borrowers. In light of the mott recent developments
in Indonesia's financial sector (paras. 1.3-1.5), priority will now be
accorded to: (i) reducing further and/or eliminating the residue 104n market
segmentations (ii) remedying infrastructural inadequacies for formal finance;
(iii) strengthening the SCBs in order for them to compete in the new financial
environments and (iv) fostering the further development of capital markets.
The Bank is currently discussing with the GOI how it may support most
effectively its strategy for addressing the above issues within the context of
a proposed Financial Sector Restructuring Operation. It is expected that the
targeted approach reflected in the Bank's financial sector lending operations
to date will be phased out as the policy environment for resource allocation
improves and the financial system becomes increasingly competitive and
sophisticated. As a transitional measure, however, the Bank would continue to
support efforts, on the basis of demonstrated financial viability and
sustainability, to expand and to improve the efficient delivery of credit to
groups of borrowers whose access to nonsubsidized credit has been constrained
in the past. BRI's Unit Desa system represents such an effort that-warrants
continued Bank support.  The proposed Second BRI/UPEDES Small Credit Project
supports the further development of a nationwide, market-based banking system
that not only provides financial servi^es to small borrowers and-savers, but
also has achieved substantial socioeconomic benefits (para. 3.19-3.26).



II. EXPERIENCE UNDER PAST WORLD BANK GROUP FINANCIAL SECTOR
LENDING OPERATIONS
2.1      To date, the Bank Group has approved a total of $1,488.1 million in
16 operations for financing investment through financial intermediaries. The
general focus of loans made prior to the onset of the GOI's financial reform
program in 1983 reflected the Bank's traditional DFC lending focus on single
financial intermediaries with emphasis on institution-building. These
projects comprised one credit and five loans to BAPINDO ($367.4 million) and
two to the Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI--$25.O
million). The Bank Group's participation in the three Small Enterprise
Development Projects (SEDPs--$350.7 million) aimed at supporting the
development of Indonesia's small-scale enterprises through BI. Success in
meeting the project objectives of these operations was mixed.
2.2      The most recent Proiect Performance Audit Report (PPAR) No. 6403,
covering the Bank Group's relationship with BAPINDO (Loans 1054-IND, 1437-IND
and 1703-IND) over 1979-83, noted that, while BAPINDO had made some progress
in terms of institutional development, its achievements fell short of mutual
expectations and BAPINDO continued to face substantial problems. The PPAR
made a number of recommendations for improvements. Subsequently, during
implementation of Loan 2277-IND (BAPINDO V), BAPINDO undertook a comprehensive
portfolio review, carried out a reorganization, and strengthened its capital
base through an Infusion of equity from the GOI. PPAR No. 3862 on the second
PDFCI project (Loan 1363-IND) found that, although Bank loan proceeds were
transferred to sound industrial projects, performance towards institutional
and policy goals was disappointing, primarily because of the restrictive
macro-policy environment prior to the 1983 reforms.
2.3      The three SEDPe (Credit 785-IND, Loan 2011-IND and Loan 2430-IND)
were In support of BIIs XIK/JMKP program.31 This program was funded through
liquidity credits and provided subsidized loans to end-users. As highlighted
in the two Prolect Completion Reports on these lending operations, the SEDPs
met their objectives of generating jobs and training bank staff; however, as
credit operations they failed to achieve their policy and Institutional
development objectives due to several factorss poor borrower selection
criteria; subsidized interest rates; insufficient spreads to intermediaries;
and overly generous credit insurance. This combination resulted in poor
collection rates and high arrears. The major design flaws that were
identified as having contributed to the failure of the SEDPs were avoided in
setting up BRI's small credit (KUPEDES) scheme.
2.4      Following the 1983 reforms and in light of its previous experience,
the Bank made two significant shifts in the mid-1980s in its approach to
financial sector lending operations. One, it moved away from subsidized
lending; and two, it limited significantly single beneficiary lending, thus
enabling end-users to have greater access to the Bank's term resources through
a larger number of competing financial intermediaries. Recent projects (i.e.,
the Export Development Projects--Loans 2702-tID and 2979-IMN for $229.5
31 Iredit Investasi Recil (KIK - small investment credit) and Kredit Modal
Kerja Permanen (RhIP - small working capital credit).



million, the Industrial Restructuring Project--Loan 3040-IND for $284 million,
and the Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project--Loan 3041-INM for $100
million) have incorporated an increasing number of participating financial
institutions (from three under Loan 2702-IND to 13 under Loan 3041-IND).
While specific subsector/entrepreneurial groups continued to benefit from the
Bank's lending activities to redress market failures either in the
availability of long-term credit or in the access zo such credit for targeted
groups of borrowers, all loan proceeds are passed on to the financial
intermediaries at variable, market-determined interest rates; these funds, in
turn, are onlent to qualifying enterprises at competitive and prevailing
market rates as determined by the individual intermediaries. Increasing
emphasis on environmental concern have also been incorporated in recent
financial intermediation operations. Under Loans 2979-IND, 3040-IND and
3041-IND, the assessment of environmental impact and the identification of
appropriate environmental safeguards are included in the subproject review
processes provided under these loans. These projects are ongoing and
implementation has proceeded satisfactorily. The BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit
Project (Loan 2800-IND) had the objective of helping promote the development
of a market-based, financially viable, nationwide rural banking network
(paras. 3.6 and 3.7).
2.5      To summarize, both the very substantial reforms of the financial
system, which will lead increasingly to the allocation of credit according to
competitive market signals, and the lessons from past operations, which have
demonstrated the ineffectiveness of supporting subsidized, directed credit
programs, will guide the Bank's further inv%i'vement in credit operations.
Targeted credit and single beneficiary operations will be phased out
appropriately, and replaced by the sectoral and system-wide approach now
evident in the proposed Financial Sector Restructuring Operation under
preparation (paras. 1.6 and 1.15).
III. PRESENT STATUS OF TEE BENEFICIARY AND THE KUPEDES PROGRAM
A. Bank Rakyat Indonesia
3.1      Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) was founded in 1896 as a small savings
bank in central Java. It was later established as a fully state-owned bank
under Law No. 21 of December 18, 1968. The statutory mandate established for
BRI under the 1968 law required it to: (a) assist the Government in
implementing national agricultural policies and rural development programs;
(b) undertake commercial banking activities, primarily short- and medium-term
lending to farmers, fishermen, small-scale industries and traders; and
(c) supervise secondary rural banks in accordance with BI directives. Prior
to the financial sector reforms of June 1983, BRI functioned largely as an
agent of the Government charged with nationwide administration of a number of
liquidity credit programs for the rural and small-scale sectors. For several
of these programs, BRI had little or no say in client selection and very
limited, if any, credit risk as many program loans were insured or otherwise
guaranteed by the Government. Even so, the narrow spreads allowed to BRI
under most of the directed programs did not adequately cover its costs and, in
combination with repayment guarantees, provided BRI with little incentive to
emphasize loan collections, leading to a portfolio characterized by relatively
high arrears. As a result of these policies, BRI developed into a large,



-9-
relatively bureaucratic institution reliant on BI funding, operating at high
costs and realizing little profit.
3.2      Impact of the June 1983 Reforms.  The introduction of the June 1983
reforms (para. 1.3) coincided with the appointment of a new (and current)
President-Director for BRI, who quickly recognized that BRI would no longer be
able to survive solely as an administrative agent of the government and would
need to develop into a profitable and effective financial intermediary. Thus,
BRlI's management put priority on defining a strategy for developing into a
broad-based, sound and commercially viable bank. The strategy called for:
(a) diversification of income generating activities to ensure BRI's short-term
financial viability; (b) a comprehensive review of its organization and
procedures to improve internal efficiency and productivity; and (c) a product
profitability analysis to determine which activities to pursue, modify or drop
so as to maximize profitability. To achieve the needed transformation, BRI
sought outside technical assistance. In consultation with the Bank and with
funding initially provided under Loan 2430-IND and continued under Loan
2800-IND, BRI in 1986 engaged a management consulting firm to provide an
experienced banking team to assist it in focusing on the main institutional
issues facing it and in recommending appropriate institutional, operational
and marketing changes (including an action program for implementing these
recommendations). This program was planned and implemented under the direct
supervision of BRI's President and Board of Managing Directors.
3.3      BRI's institutional strengthening efforts have been encouraging.  Its
management has taken the initiative to proceed with a number of far-reaching
actions designed to improve its financial position and performance in an
increasingly competitive financial sector. Annex 2 provides a more detailed
discussion of these institutional efforts as well as an overview of BRI's
Ci) organizational structure, (ii) loan portfolio, and (iii) financial
condition and performance.
3.4      Project Aid to BRI.  Since 1972, BRI has participated extensively in
numerous projects funded by bilateral and multilateral agencies. As shown in
Annex 3, IDA (five credits) and IBRD (eight loans) credit lines, including
technical assistance, totaling $284.3 million equivalent have been made
available directly to BRI since 1972. ADB (through nine loans) has extended
another $122.5 million equivalent of such funding. As of December 31, 1989,
the outstanding balances of IDAIIBRD and ADB funds were Rp 304.9 billion and
Rp 55.4 billion, respectively. BRI was also a participating bank in the SEDPs
(KIKIKMKP programs), and is an executing bank for the Bank's Nucleus Estates
and Smallholders and tree-crop projects. BRI's performance as an implementing
agency in ongoing Bank projects is satisfactory.
B. The BRI Unit Desa System and the KUPEDES Program
Background
3.5      Following the June 1983 liberalization measures, BRI was encouraged
by the GOI to develop its Kredit Umum Pedesan (KUPEDES) scheme. Today, this
program makes available to creditworthy small borrowers, primarily in rural
areas, loans for directly productive activities (e.g., agriculture, trading



- 10 -
and cottage industry) at market-determined interest rates. It operates
exclusively through a subdistrict-based Unit Desa (village subbranch) system,
which was established by the GOI in 1970 and originally administered by SRI to
provide credit related to the GOI's rice crop intensification (BIMAS) program.41
BIGOI bore up to 75 percent of the credit risk on these BINAS loans and
provided an administrative subsidy to BRI to cover Unit Desa operating
expenses. In 1983, the 001 recognized thst the BIMAS program had outlived its
usefulness and it was discontinued. BRI then faced the choice of eithers
(i) abandoning the Unit Desa system (comprising some 3,500 offices and 14,000
employees), since the operations would no longer be subsidized by the GOI5 or
(ii) changing its role and functions in an effort to make it profitable.
Based on the fact that ongoing Kredit Mini and Kredit Midi operations 5/ had
shown that there was a large loan demand for all kinds of village-based
entrepreneurial activities, and that Unit Desa staff had already learned how
to administer smill credit programs, BRI opted for the second alternative. As
a result, BRI organized the Unit Desa system as an autonomous financial entity
within the bank that would be operated as a separate profit center and would
no longer participate in administered credit programs. While financial
services outside the large urban centers, especially those for small-sized
borrowers and savers, are provided by a variety of formal and informal
financial intermediaries (paras. 1.10-1.13), BRI's Unit Desa system has become
the most important nationwide scheme for both mobilizing savings and serving
the credit needs of the rural population.
Proiect Implementation Under Loan 2800-IND
3.6      In April 1987, the Bank approved a loan of $101.5 million for the
BRIIKUPEDES Small Credit Project (Loan 2800-IND). This first KUPEDES Project
allowed the Bank to support an approach, which it had long advocated, that
neither promoted nor extended subsidized funds. Major design flaws that were
identified as having contributed to the failure of the Bank's SEDPs
(para. 2.3) were avoided in setting up the RUPEDES scheme. This project had
the specific objectives of% (a) supporting BRI's efforts to develop the Unit
Desa system into a financially viable network that would be able to provide
credit on a nonsubsidized basis to all creditworthy small borrowers, to
mobilize savings and to provide other banking services; (b) encouraging BRI to
improve its resource mobilization efforts so that it could eventually fund
KUPEDES loans with deposits raised through the Unit Desa system; (c) reducing
BRI's reliance on DI liquidity credits, which had been initially provided for
the start-up of the KUPEDES program; and (d) improving the overall
institutional capability of BRI as well as that of the KUPEDES program. This
4/ The BIMAS program aimed at improving agricultural production and
practices through the provision of physical inputs, technical
assistance and short-term credit through the Unit Desas at a subsidized
interest rate of 12 percent per annum.
5/ Established in 1973 and 1979, respectively, these programs made credit
available to small borrowers outside of the BIMAS program, primarily
for off-farm economic activities. Under Kredit Mini, the loan ceiling
was Rp 200,000; under Rredit Midi, it was Rp 500,000.



- 11 -
first KUPEDES Project comprised a credit component of $96.7 million and a
technical assistance (TA) component of $4.8 million, which was complemented
with a TA grant of $10.0 million provided by USAID.
3.7      Implementation of the first KUPEDES project has proceeded very
satisfactorily. The project's credit component was fully disbursed within the
27-month period estimated at the time of appraisal; Bank loan proceeds
accounted for 9.4 percent of total KUPEDES disbursements and 46 percent of the
incremental growth in the KUPEDES portfolio during this period. Of the TA
component, $3.5 million has been disbursed and BRI recently submitted to the
Bank its proposal for utilizing over the next two years the remaining $1.3
million for research and training activities as outlined under the project.
BRI's efforts and success in achieving project objectives have not only
generally met original appraisal expectations, but often exceeded them.
Implementation of the USAID project has also proceeded satisfactorily and the
grant is expected to be fully disbursed in early 1991. With the USAID grant
proceeds, (i) a team of long-term consultants was recruited to advise BRI
senior management on rural banking policy and training matters, (ii) a team of
long-term consultants developed and implemented a computerized accounting
program for the Unit Desas, (iii) 600 Unit Desas were equipped with computers,
(iv) the first-phase construction of five regional Unit Desa training centers
was undertaken, and (v) approximately $2.0 million of Unit Desa training
expenses were funded. A formal evaluation of this coma?onent will be done by
USAID in July 1990.
Organization
3.8      The Read Office.  BRI's Board of Managing Directors is the main
authority for establishing policy regarding Unit Desa activities. Policy
directives (in the form of operational circulars) art communicated from the
Board through the regional offices and branches to their respective Unit
Desas. BRI's Unit Desa Policy and Unit Desa Strategy Statements (Annexes 4
and 5, respectively) outline the overall goals and operational objectives of
the Unit Desa system. These statements were reviewed and agreed with the Bank
during appraisal, and the adoption of these statements by BRI's Board of
Managing Directors was a condition of loan negotiations. During loan
negotiations, it was agreed that neither statement would be amended in a
material way without the prior agreement of the Bank. In late 1988, in
recognition of the growing importance of the Unit Desas as a major service and
profit center within BRI, the Village Unit Development Division, originally
created for overall responsibility of Unit Desa operations within the then
existing Cooperatives, Farmers and Fishermen Credit Department, was
reorganized and upgraded to a full Department known as Business Unit Desa
(Chart 1). BRI senior management is assisted on Unit Desa and rural banking-
related matters by a team of advisors who report directly to the President
Director and coordinate on a day-to-day basis with the Business Unit Desa
Department. Funding for the retention of this advisory team, currently
financed with USAID grant assistance, is provided under the proposed project
(para. 4.5).
3.9      Regional and Branch Offices.  While the regional offices oversee the
operations of the branches, branches have primary responsibility for the day-
to-day supervision of Unit Desa activities. Each branch has at least one Unit



- 12 -
Desa Business Manager (UBM--one for every four Unit Desas), who routinely
visits and monitors Unit Desa operations, cash balances and financial
controls; in those branches where there are more than ten Unit Desas, a Unit
Desa Officer (UDO) is assigned to oversee the UBMs. As of December 31, 1989,
there were 839 UBMs and 127 UDOs.  Although the Unit Desa itself collects data
and compiles standardized monthly reports, Unit Desa operational and financial
data are consolidated and analysis is undertaken at the branch level.
Overall, the present information system for Unit Desa operations is adequate.
3.10     The Unit Desa.  The standard Unit Desa comprises a manager, a loan
officer, a bookkeeper and a cashier. Standardized workload coefficients
(based on number of loans, number of savings accounts and average daily cash
transactions) have been developed that determine the number of additional loan
officers, bookkeepers and cashiers needed in order to operate efficiently a
Unit Desa.  Once the volume of Unit Desa operations requires 11 staff members,
a Unit Desa is split into two. 'Posts", comprising two-person teams, are
attached to those Unit Desas where there is significant business activity in
outlying areas but insufficient transactions to justify the creation of a
fully-staffed Unit Desa. As of end-1989, BRI's Unit Desa system constituted
2,843 Unit Desas and 835 Posts;6/ total employees numbered 13,666: 2,805
managers. 3,323 loan officers, 4,109 bookkeepers and 3,429 cashiers. Due to
the tremendous growth in operations during 1989, the Unit Desa system is
currently understaffed, with vacancies estimated at around 900; this situation
could jeopardize both the continued growth and the quality of Unit Desa
operations. To rectify the problem, BRI recently implemented a new system
that should ensure, in future, that Unit Desa staff vacancies are promptly
filled by qualified staff. Each region identifies its total annual Unit Desa
personnel requirements on the basis of 'projected* needs (taking into
consideration lending and savings growth prospects, internal promotions and
natural attrition, as well as establishing a 5 percent reserve at the branch
level to fill temporary vacancies resulting from regular Unit Desa staff being
sick, on leave or in training), rather than on current vacancies only.
Second, for entry-level cashier and bookkeeping positions, psychological
testing will no longer be required; this should produce a larger pool of
candidates available for final placement. (A recent survey of trainee
candidates showed that 40 percent of those applicants who passed the oral
interview and the security clearance test then proceeded to fail the final
major recruitment hurdle, the psychological test.)
3.11     Training.  Recognizing that its existing training facilities were
physically incapable of accommodating the type of training program that was
needed for its Unit Desa system, BRI decided in 1986 to establish five
training centers exclusively for Unit Desa personnel at Bandung, Padang,
Yogyakarta, Surabaya and Ujung Padang. With USAID technical assistance, two
of these centers are now operational, another two will become operational
around mid-1990 and the remaining one is expected to be finished in early
1991. To date, 52 trainers have been locally recruited and trained by BRI and
61 As of end-December 1989, approximately 7 percent of BRI's Unit Desas
are located in urban centers (defined as those cities, including
Jakarta, in which BRI's regional headquarters are located) and account
for about 9 percent of total Unit Desa savings deposits and 5 percent
of the outstanding KUPEDES portfolio.



- 13 -
its advisory team (another group of 30 trainers will be ready for assignment
in aid-1990). Courses, based on vell-prepared curricula, range from four
weeks for bookkeepers and cashiers, to 12 weeks for the Unit Desa manager.
Shorter courses (two weeks) have also been developed for the UDOs and UBMs.
Formal training began in 1988, with priority given to the Unit Desa managers
and loan officers. Total staff trained in 1988 were slightly less than 3,000;
another 5,200 were trained in 1989. BRI plans to train 7,950 staff in 1990,
8,750 in 1991 and 11,850 in 1992. This program is ambitious, but attainable.
Scope and Terms of KUPEDES Lending
3.12     Eligibility.  The main criterion for loan approval is the
creditworthiness of the borrower. KUPEDES loans are generally intended for
directly productive activities, although fixed-income earners can also qualify
(less than 5 percent of total loan volume is currently extended to this
group). Borrowers are required to provide proof of income sources and/or a
certification of their business activities. All loan applications require a
cosigner, who is normally the applicant's spouse.
3.13     Collateral.  All borrowers must provide collateral sufficient to
cover the value of their loans. While land, buildings or any other property
may be accepted, most borrowers use land (including house plots). A borrower
is classified on the basis of his repayment record, and this establishes the
person's limit for subsequent loans. Since the legal system for realizing
collateral in the case of loan default is time-consuming and complicated, the
documentation of collateral for each loan is more for the purpose of
establishing the borrower's ability and serious intent to repay than it is to
provide a basis for legal action or an alternative source of loan repayment.
3.14     Repayment Schedule.  Repayment schedules for working capital loans
range from three to 24 months, with or without grace periods of three to nine
months. Single balloon payments for three- to 12-month maturities are also
available. Repayment schedules for loans for investment purposes range up to
a maximum term of 36 months, including grace periods.
3.15     Loan Size.  The minimum size KUPEDES loan is Rp 25,000 ($14
equivalent). In practice, few loans of less than Rp 100,000 ($55 equivalent)
have been made. The maximum KUPEDES loan amount was initially set at Rp 1
million. This was raised in April 1986 to Rp 2 million and to Rp 3 million in
mid-1988. (On a pilot basis begun in late 1988, it was raised to
Rp 5 million--$2,730 equivalent.) This upper limit is generally available
only to repeat customers who have promptly and fully repaid previous loans.
3.16     Interest Rates.  Unlike the approach reflected in previous official
credit programs to support small borrowers, the market-based approach to
setting interest rates for KUPEDES loans focuses on establishing rates that
will ensure (a) prompt delivery of credit and (b) adequate profitability for
the financial intermediary. The underlying assumption is that for small
borrowers, access to credit is more important than the interest rates
involved. The decision to base KUPEDES interest rates on prevailing market
conditions meant that BRI had to: (a) set deposit rates sufficiently high to
attract savings; and (b) set lending rates sufficiently high to cover its
funding and operating costs, including adequate provisions for loan losses,



- 14 -
and to permit it to earn a reasonable profit. As a result, BR? set onlending
rates of 1.5 percent per month for working capital loans, calculated on the
original loan amounts, and 1 percent per month for investment loans, similarly
calculated. [At the time, this differential was considered necessary to
encourage investment activity. Recent changes in KUPEDES lending parameters,
however, recognized the need to rationalize this aspect of KUPEDES interest
rates (para. 3.17).] Since onlending rates are stated in terms of interest on
the original amount borrowed rather than on the declining balance, the
effective annual interest rates were 31.7 percent for working capital loans
and 21.5 percent for investment loans.71 While these rates are higher than
effective market rates for larger loans (which currently range from 17 to
22 percent), they compare favorably to rates charged by other lenders to
smaller borrowers (Table 1.1). In addition to the basic interest rate, there
4s a sprompt repayment incentive (IPTW)" fee of 0.5 percent per month (also
calculated on original loan amounts) collected monthly. This is effectively
an upfront penalty for failure to pay loan installments on time. It is
returned, in full, at the time of final loan payment to borrowers who have
paid all installments on time.
3.17     Revised KUPEDES Londinf  Parameters. BBl's experience to date
indicates that there is room for increasing its XUPEDES op)rations by
prudently expanlkng the scope of its coverage, specifically, by more actively
soliciting urban borrowers as well as *larger* small borrowers (both rural and
urban).  During appraisal, the following new loan parameters were agreed with
BRI and they became operationally effective on May 1, 1990t
(a) an increase in the maximum loan size to Rp 25 million (approximately
$13,700 equivalent);
(b) a revision of the interest rate structures
Ci) on loans of Rp 3 million or less--l.5 percent per month,
calculated on a flat rate basis on the original loan principal;
and
(ii)  on loans of more than Rp 3 millioa--l.5 percent per month,
calculated on a flat rate basis on the first Rp 3 million of tne
original loan principal and 1.0 percent per month, calculated on
a flat rate basis on the amount of the original loan principal
exceeding Rp 3 million.
Working capital and investment loans would carry the same rate. The
effective annual interest rate would be 31.7 percent for loans of
Rp 3 million and less; for loans of more than Rp 3 million, the
effective annual interest rate would range from slightly less than
31.7 percent to 22.7 percent for a maximum loan of Rp 25 million;
(c) the IPTW (prompt repayment incentive) fee of 0.5 percent per month,
still calculated on a flat rate basis on the original loan principal,
71 For loans (shorter as well as longer than one year) with grace periods,
the effective interest rate is kept basically the same as for the
standard one-year loan vith no grace period.



- 15 -
would be refunded to the borrower (on a pro-rata basis) on a
semiannual basis if all repayments are made on time as per the
original amortization schedule for each respective six-month periods
and
(d) in instances where the borrower decides to repay his loan before it
becomes due, he/she would not be required (as previously) to pay all
interest due on the prepaid amount as computed at the time the loan
was extended.
These changes achieve several objectives. They allow the Unit Desas to seek
larger clients while providing competitive rates (economies of scale result in
lower processing costs for larger loans, thus permitting lower onlending rates
to the end-users). They also enable the Unit Desas to provide financial
incentives to their good clients [i.e., items (c) and (d)] without
jeopardizing their lending margins. In addition, the revised interest rate
structure corrects the previous situation in which not only were investment
loans being effectively cross-subsidized, but also Unit Desa staff were
declining to extend investment loans because they realized that they were
losing income on these loans.
IMPEDES Lending Ooerations
3.18     During its six years of operations, the Unit Desas have disbursed
about Rp 3.4 trillion in KUPEDES loans (almost $1.9 billion equivalent using
the end-1989 official exchange rate); the total number of loans made during
this time was 6.4 million (Annex 6, Table 1). Average loan size has increased
almost threefold since 1984--from Rp 287,000 to Rp 777,000 in 1989. The
number of annual loans made during this same period has increased twofold-
-from 0.64 million to 1.38 million. After stabilizing at around 1.1 million
loans annually over 1986-88, the number of loans in 1989 increased by
21 percent. Based on annual disbursement and repayment data, the average loan
maturity remains around 12 months.  Sector-wise, trading continues to account
(by Rupiah) for about 60 percent of KUPEDES loans (compared to around
70 percent in 1987 and earlier years). Agriculture accounts for another
26 percent. industrial activities account for only 2 percent and
transportationliervices for another 8 percent. General consumption loans,
extended to fixed-income (salaried) borrowers only, account for the remaining
4 percent. Geographically, 70 percent of the KUPEDES loan portfolio is
concentrated in Java (a decline from 75 percent in 1986). However, this is
not unusual' considering that more than 60 percent of Indonesia's population
lives on Java and that the level of economic activity there is relatively
higher than in the other islands.
Characteristics and Impact of KUPEDES Lending
3.19     In mid-1989, BRI undertook a general survey of KUPEDES borrowers to
measure the socioeconomic benefits derived from the lending program. While
the results of KUPEDES lending have been generally assessed as posit1v,i this



16 _
survey demdnstrates quantitatively the dramatic success of a relatively young
program. The major survey findings are summarized in paras. 3.20-3.26 below.8/
3.20     Profile of KUPEDES Borrowers.  The survey results confirm that
KUPEDES mainly serves nonagricultural sectors of the rural economy. Loans for
small traders, cottage industries and service occupations accounted for
78 percent of total lending in the areas sampled. These activities are
characterized by a very rapid turnover of working capital (an average of once
every 23 days). Traders often turn over their entire working capital daily.
Every time capital is turned over, a profit ranging from 5 percent to
25 percent is earned. For this reason, borrowers who take out working capital
loans for nonagricultural activities are relatively unconcerned about the
interest rate charged. With regard to agricultural lending activities,
KUPEDES loans are used mainly for livestock rather than rice growing due to
the existence of the government-sponsored KUT program which supports rice
production. The working capital turnover on agricultural loans averages 153
days, but borrowers often opt for monthly repayments, which are paid from
income earned on their other economic activities.
3.21     The majority of KUPEDES borrowers come from landless and near
landless families. About 48 percent of the borrowing families surveyed own no
rice land at all, while 25 percent own micro plots of 2,000 square meters or
less. Although many borrowers own no cropland, they usually do own a small
house plot which provides the security for the loan; the percentage of loans
guaranteed by house plots is 66 percent. Only 3 percent of borrowers sampled
have ever had a loan from a private bank and less than 9 percent have
previously had a loan from a private bank or government bank/agency. For the
majority of borrowers, the BRI Unit Desa office is their first-ever contact
with a formal sector credit institution.
3.22     The participation rate of women in the RUPEDES program is high.
About 25 percent of borrowers are women. The size of loans given to female
borrowers does not vary significantly from the size of loans given to male
borrowers. Moreover, about 32 percent of loan funds are utilized by
enterprises that are owned and operated by women, reflecting the fact that
loans taken out in the husband's name are often shared with the wife.
3.23     Development Impact.  It appears that KUPEDES lending has directly
contributed to poverty alleviation at the village level. Survey results
indicate that RUPEDES lending has both increased employment for hired workers
in borrower enterprises and increased the incomes for borrower families who
were below the poverty line.  Using Bank guidelines, 15 percent of first-time
RUPEDES borrowers in 1986 fell below the poverty line; this roughly
corresponds to the overall incidence of rural poverty which was established at
16 percent of the rural population in 1987. After an average three years of
program participation, however, only 4 percent of KUPEDES borrowers were still
below the poverty line. on a national scale, this means that an estimated
186,000 families have moved out of the seriously poor category.
8/  A more detailed discussion of this survey (Briefing Booklet--KUPEDES
Development Impact Survey) is available in the Project File.



- 17 -
3.24     KUPEDES has had a major impact on profits earned by borrower
enterprises. Prior to taking out their first XUPEDES loan, borrower
enterprises earned an average of Rp 141,098 (about $75) per month. After an
average three years of program participation, this monthly income had grown to
Rp 327,595 (about $180); after adjusting for inflation, that is a real
increase of 94 percent. The four major reasons why enterprise incomes have
increased so substantially aret
(a) borrowers with trade enterprises often double or triple the amount of
goods bought and sold after getting their KUPEDES loans;
(b) borrowers with small industry enterprises often double or triple the
amount of goods produced after getting their KUPEDES loans;
(c) borrowers who previously obtained trade goods or raw materials on
credit from suppliers and paid high interest rates (an average of
5.7 percent per month) can now pay cash; and
(d)  borrowers who previously experienzed work stoppages du  to a lack of
working capital can now work continuously year-round.
3.25     KUPEDES lending has also contributed to employment growth.  The
average borrower surveyed has participated in the program for three years and
has had three or more loans. In this time, employment, measured in terms of
number of workers per enterprise, has increased an average of 65 percent; if
employment is measured by annual labor hours per enterprise, the average
increase is 84 percent. In absolute terms, employment has increased for both
unpaid family workers and hired workers. Proportionally, however, the share
of labor contributed by unpaid family workers has declined by about 7 percent,
if measured in terms of number of workers, and by 18 percent, if measured in
labor hours. The most dramatic increase in employment has been for piece-rate
vorkers, many of whom are women who work in their own homes. These workers
allow borrowers to enlarge their labor force without building new work places.
3.26     The standard of living of many KUPEDES borrowers has subsequently
improved. Personal consumption has increased with many borrowers reporting
that they are now able to purchase new clothing, radios, furniture and
motorcycles. Many have made housing repairs, added rooms to their houses or
even built new houses. Borrowers who formerly relied on a traditional medical
specialist when ill now visit the local health worker or a doctor in town.
Women who formerly relied on traditional midwives are now going to maternity
clinics.  Many families report an increased frequency in the consumption of
protein foods such as meat and fish. Many families who had no savings three
years ago now have savings in the form of gold jewelry or savings accounts.
The average annual amount spent on school fees and related educational
expenses by families who have received KUPEDES loans has increased from
Rp 171,272 to Rp 338 791 per household, for a real increase of 65 percent.



- 18 -
Unit Desa Administration and Financial Operations
3.27     In 1984, BRI developed accounting and monitoring systems that
permitted the Unit Doses to fund their respective operations and to identify
their respective costs and profits. This entailed: (a) reconstruction of
each Unit Desa's financial statements; (b) establishment of a mechanism to
enable each Unit Desa to fund its loan operations, irrespective of the amount
of deposits it could raise; (c) creation of a mechanism to allow the Unit Desa
to invest (without incurring a loss) deposits it had mobilized in excess of
loan demand; and (d) allocation of overhead costs associated with the branch's
supervision of the Unit Desa. To ensure that the system's sustainability is
not based on subsidized funds, BRI adopted an internal transfer pricing
mechanism so that funds loaned to the Unit Desas are at an interest rate that
is no less than the rate paid by the Unit Desas on three-month time deposits;
at the same time, Unit Desas with surplus savings can deposit these funds with
their branches and receive this same rate (currently 16 percent). This
mechanism promotes savings mobilization (deposits are cheaper than borrowed
funds), while those Unit Desas whose savings exceed loan demand are not
penalized for having successfully mobilized resources. Another distinguishing
feature of the Unit Desa system is its incorporation of an annual "bonus"
incentive. The staff of each Unit Desa are paid a bonus of up to one month's
salary that is based directly on the financial performance of the unit. A
Unit Desa Development Fund was also set up under the first KUPEDES Project to
which was allocated at least 50 percent of the margin between the cost of Bank
loan proceeds to BRI and the onlending rate to the Unit Desas. These funds
are used for expenditures in support of the Untt Desas.
Funding of the Unit-Desas and Resource Mobilization
3.28     Funds available to the Unit Desas for extending RUPEDES loans come
from several sources:
(a)  Equity.  This consists of the proceeds of the Government's grant of
Rp 66.7 billion to BRI for the Kredit Mini program which, in 1984,
were reallocated for funding KUPEDES loans. BRI distributes this
grant among the Unit Desas as 'an equity contribution' of Rp 19
million each;
(b) Liquidity Credit from DI. This consists ofs (i) the conversion of
Rp 43 billion in liquidity credit originally provided by BI for the
purpose of funding the Rredit Midi program; and (ii) an initial
Rp 100 billion of liquidiiy credit made available to BRI for KNUPEDES
lending. Undor the first KUPEDES Project, it was agreed that BRI
would pay a single consolidated rate of 12 percent per annum on these
liquidity funds,9/ and that they would be repaid on a quarterly basis
9/ Originally, the interest rate to BRI on the BI liquidity credit was
15 percent, excepting amounts utilized for investment purposes on which
the rate would be A percent. Since a working capital/investment blend
of 75s25 was assun*d at the time, BI charged BRI an interest rate of
12 percent for the sake of administrative convenience, with an
understanding that this rate would be adjusted at a later date.



- 19 -
over seven years, beginning in the first quarter of 1989. (BRI is
current in making the agreed repayments.) This arrangement was
reconfirmed at negotiations:
(c) Official Loans. Under Loan 2800-IND, World Bank funds of Rp 165.7
billion have been disbursed (to be repaid semi-annually over 15
years, exclusive of a five-year grace period, beginning in January
1993). In 1989, BRI received from the Exim Bank of Japan Rp 50.7
billion for local cost financing associated with the first KUPEDES
Project (to be repaid semi-annually over 15 years beginning in
September 1991); and
(d) Savings Mobilization by the Unit Desas. The Unit Desas provide two
major savings instruments: TABANAS and SIMPEDES. Tabungan Nasional
(Small Savings Program--TABANAS) is a national savings scheme
sponsored by BI and available to depositors in all banks, both state
and private. The interest rate is currently 16 percent on the
minimum monthly balance (zero percent on balances of less than
Rp 250,000). Under TABANAS, withdrawals are restricted to two per
month. Simpanan Pedesan (Village Savings Program--SIMPEDES) was
introduced by BRI as a Unit Desa savings instrument in 1985.
SIMPEDES interest rates, calculated on the basis of minimum monthly
balances, are zero percent on balances of less than Rp 25,000,
9 percent on balances from Rp 25,000 to Rp 200,000, and 13.5 percent
on balances above Rp 200,000. The saver is permitted unlimited
withdrawals; this is considered the key factor behind the success of
tbe program. SIMPEDES accounted for 75 percent of total Unit Desa
deposits as of end-1989. In addition to the TABANAS and SIMPEDES
accounts,10/ Unit Desas offer time deposits with maturities ranging
from three months to one year and checking (Giro) accounts, which are
held primarily by local government agencies.11/
As of December 31, 1989, total resources available to the Unit Desa system
amounted to Rp 1.4 trillion (approximately $765 million equivalent) as shown
in Table 3.1 below.
10/ At the end-1989, the Unit Desas held 3.5 million TABANAS accounts
(averaging Rp 32,700, or about $18 equivalent) and 2.65 million
SIMPEDES accounts (averaging Rp 261,100, or about $143 equivalent).
111 BRI introduced a new savings instrument in December 1989 called
SIHASKOT available at both Unit Desas (initially in urban locations
only) and branch offices. It is similar to SINPEDES, but provides an
interest rate of 14.5 percent on accounts larger than Rp 5.0 million.



- 20 -
Table 3.1t TOTAL RESOURCES AVAILABLE TO THE UNIT DESA SYSTEK, END-1989
Resource                                 Rp (billion)               Z of total
Kredit Mini (equity) grant                    66.7                      4.8
Converted Kredit Midi                      }
BI liquidity credit                        } 165.4                     11.8
IBRD Loan 2800-IND                           165.7                     11.8
Exim Bank of Japan                            50.7                      3.6
TABANAS (Unit Desas only)                    113.7                      8.1
SIMPEDES                                     694.7                     49.6
Deposits and Giro                            145.1                     10.3
Total                                 1,402.0                    100.0
3.29    Auditing and Internal Control.  Due to the sheer number of A.*nit Desas
and the staffing constraints currently faced by BRI's Internal Audit
Department (para. 11 of Annex 2), BRI has not audited annually each t1 its
Unit Desas. In 1989, only 542;(or 19 percent) of BR1's 2,850 Unit Dotas were
individually audited. Inasmuch as Unit Desa operations are reflected in the
financial position of the branches, however, all Unit Desas are audited,
albeit in a very limited fashion. SRI relies primarily on the financial
review and supervision of the Unit Desas as performed by the branches and
overseen by the regional and headquarters offices (para. 3.9). Thii does not
mean that this supervision capability is intended or expected to replace the
internal audit function. With the expansion and strengthening of BRI's
Internal Audit Department, it is expected that 700 Unit Desas will be audited
in 1990, with all Unit Desas being audited beginning in 1992. External
auditing at BRI is performed by the Government's Agency for Financial and
Development Supervision (BPXP).  BPXP's audit teams visit all BRI,regional and
branch offices, but they only audit Unit Desas on a sample basis.'
Financial Position and Performance of the Unit Desas
3.30     Financial Position.  The Unit Desas' financial position since 1984 is
presented in Annex 6, Table 2. During'the past six years, the Unit pesa
system has registered impressive growth. Between end-1984 and end-1989, total
assets increased sevenfold, from Rp 0.18 trillion to Rp 1.29 trillion ($700
million equivalent). The outstanding KUPEDES portfolio has increased from
Rp 110.7 million' to Rp 845.6 million ($465 million equivalent), although
annual growth rates have fluctuated greatly, e.g., from 25 percent in 1987 and -~
1988, to 57 percent in 1989, to'78 percent in 1985. During 1984-87, RUPEDES
loans accounted for 62 percent to 84 percent of total assets.  As of end-1988
and end-1989, however, as a result of the Unit Desas''very quccessfut resource
mobilization efforts that produced large net surpluses of loanable funds,
these respective ligures declined to 60 percent and 65 percent, respectively.
Savings deposits (in particular, SIMPEDES5  have also increased dramatically,
from Rp 40.2 billion at end-X984 to Rp 920.6 billion ($509 million equivalent)
at end-1989. [At the end-1989, these savings represented 14 percent of BRU's
,-   -   l .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 21 -
total deposits.] Like the KUPEDES portfolio, annual growth rates have
fluctuated widely, varying from about 75 percent in 1985 and 1988, to
132 percent :n 1986, to 94 percent in 1989. As of December 31, 1989, those
Unit Desas with surplus liquidity showed a total cash position of Rp 452.5
billion, while those with negative liquidity positions showed net "branch
borrowings' amounting to Rp 198.4 billion. In aggregate, adjusting for
various reserve requirements and working cash margins, the Unit Desas' net
liquidity position was Rp 545.5 billion (about $300 million equivalent).
3.31     Financial Performance.  After incurring initial start-up losses
(wbich were expected) in 1984 and 1985, the Unit Desa system has generated
steadily increasing annual net profits (before taxes), totaling Rp 9.8 billion
in 1986 and increasing to Rp 36.9 billion ($20.3 million equivalent) in 1989
(Annex 6, Table 3). As shown in Table 3.2 below, these annual profits reflect
a reasonable and fair return on the Unit Desas average total assets. The
Gait Desas' profitability performauce also demonstrates the system's
increasingly important role in contributing to BRI's overall profitability--in
1988 and 1989, the Unit Desas accounted for 30 percent of BRI's total net
income (before taxes). The key factors, as reflected in the other financial
indicators shown in Table 3.2, that have enabled the Unit Desas to perform
profitably includes (i) an adequate lending spread; (ii) the maintenance of a
high-quality KUPEDES portfolio (para. 3.32); and (iii) firm control of
personnel and administrative expenses. It should be noted that, in 1989, two
policy changes resulted in a significant increase (in absolute Rupiah terms)
in personnel and administrative expenses: one, all Unit Desa staff were
upgraded to full BRI employee status (resulting in higher salary and employee
benefits); and two, all training costs for Unit Desa personnel are now
expensed directly against the Unit Desa system. Despite these changes, the
Unit Desas' profitability remained very satisfactory and the upgrading
exercise had the additional benefit of improving staff morale.
3.32     Quality of Portfolio.  The quality of the KUPEDES loan portfo.io
continues to be good. As of December 31, 1989, only Rp 45.7 billion (or less
than 5.5 percent of the outstanding portfolio) were in arrears, with arrears
very conservatively defined as any payment of principal overdue by one day or
more (Annex 6, Table 4). Total arrears of more than one day beyond final
installment due dates totaled Rp 20.7 billion, or 2.5 percent of the
outstanding portfolio. Much of the Unit Desas' succes,' in keeping KUPEDES
loan arrears low can be attributed to prudent lending and accounting
procedures, intensive follow-up by Unit Desa staff of their borrowers, and
close supervision and monitoring by the branches (as well as by the
headquarter office). Recent steps taken by BRI to ensure adequate and timely
recruitment of personnel will help ensure that this quality can be maintained
in future (para. 3.10). The Unit Desas have also proved successful in
collecting loans previously written off--about 25 percent of them as of end-
December 1989. BkI's comprehensive and ongoing training program for the Unit
Desa personnel also plays a positive role (para. 3.11). BRI has clearly
demonstrated its commitment to ensuring that the experience of high arrearages
under previous credit programs for small borrowers is not repeated. However,
as under the first KUPEDES Project, to enable the Bank to provide timely
guidance in case of unforeseen rapid portfolio deterioration, BRI agreed at
negotiations to consult with the Bank and to draw up within three months a
time-bound action program, acceptable to the Bank, for dealing with arrears
once they reached a level of 8 percent over a continuous six-month period. BRI



- 22 _
Table 3.2: INDICATORS OF UNIT DESAS' FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1984-89
1984     1985     1986      1987   1988    1989
Average Total Assets
(Rp billion)                  89.4    239.6    364.2    469.9  624.1  1,013.7
Average Loan Portfolio la
(Rp billion)                  69.0    191.7    295.9    388.7  485.5    693.4
Average Borrowings
(Rp billion)                  62.5    176.2    289.5    382.1  516.1    885.8
As a I of Average Assets
(a) Income from lending lb      20.2     20.8      23.6     24.6   23.2      19.3
(b) IPTW forfeited               n.a.     n-a.      n.a.     2.0    2.4       1.9
(c) Other income                 5.1j,    3.7Lc    4.1k   3.0    3.4         4.8
(d) Gross income                25.3     24.5      27.7     29.6   29.0      26.0
(e) Financial expenses           4.9      8.2       9.6     10.2    9.8       9.5
(f) Gross spread (d-e)          20.4     16.3      19.1     19.4   19.2      16.5
(g) Salary and personnel
expenses id                 34.0     13.8       9.3      8.4    7.0       6.0
(h) Administrative and
other expenses               5.0      1.9       2.8      2.6    3.0       4.5
Mi) Provision for bad debt       9.4      1.0       3.3      3.6    4.3       2.4
(j) Profitiloss le             (28.0)    (0.4)      2.7      4.8    4.9       3.6
Lendint Margin
(k) Income from lending as Z
of average loan portfolio  26.2      25.9      29.0     29.8   29.8      28.3
(1) Financial expenses as 2
of average borrowings        7.0     11.2      12.1     12.6   11.9      10.9
(m) Spread on lending (k-i)    19.2      19.7      16.9     17.2   17.9      17.4
Provision for Bad Debt as I
of Outstanding Loan Portfolio   6.6        4.3      5.9       4.9    6.3      4.7
Salary and Personnel
Expenses 1d as S of Aver-
age Loan Portfolio            44.1      17.3     11.4     10.2    9.0       8.7
/a Before provisions.
Ib  Income from lending excludes IPTW collected; likewise, IPTW collected (and
which is set aside in a reserve) is excluded as an expense in the expense
computations below.
/c Includes IPTW forfeited.
/d Excludes bonuses, which are included in administrative and other expenses.
le Before taxes. Unit Desa annual profits (losses) are appropriated by BRI.



- 23 -
has also retained in its Unit Desa Strategy Statement, the coumultment that
maintaining sound portfolio quality will receive management's highest priority
and that arrears (of three months or more past final installment due date) of
6 percent or more would be considered unsatisfactory performance.121 Should
this level of arrears be reached, BRI management would evaluate the overall
program and organization of the Unit Desas with a view to redesigning it so as
to ensure the continued financial viability of the Unit Desa system.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale. Obiectives and Content
4.1      Project Rationale and Objectives.  BUI's Unit Des& system represents
a program that is totally consistent with the GOt's financial sector policy
reforms aimed at efficiently increasing resource mobilization and improving
resource allocation. BRI's RUPEDES program provided the Bank (through its
first XUPEDES Project) an excellent opportunity to support a small credit
scheme, which had been long advocated by the Bank, that did not rely on
subsidized funds. To date, BRI's small credit and savers scheme has proven
efficient ant profitable (paras. 3.30 and 3.31), and has had significant
socioeconomic benefits (paras. 3.19-3.26). It is the only nationwide network
that serves a large group of small borrowers and savers whose access to
competitive, nonsubsidized credit and savings facilities, in the absence of
this program, would be limited. However, with only a six-year operational
record, the Unit Desa system is still young. Continued Bank participation
(including ongoing supervision assistance) will not only demonstrate the
Bank's commitment to this type of program, but will also help ensure its long-
term sustainability, particularly as the scope of operations is being
expanded. The primary objective of the proposed project is to promote BRI's
ongoing efforts to strengthen and expand its Unit Desa system as a financially
viable subbranch network that mobilizes resources and provides nonsubsidized
credit nationwide to creditworthy small borrowers. The proposed project would
also continue support to develop BRI's institutional capability as related to
its Unit Desa system.
4.2      Project Content.  The proposed project would comprise three
components: (i) a credit component for general-purpose financing in all
sectors. This component would finance cottage and small-scale enterprises in
all sectors, including manufacturing, agriculture, trade and services, and
would be committed by the Bank on the basis of the formula described in para.
4.11; (ii) a capital expenditure component for the expansion of BRI's five
Unit Desa training centers, including computer equipment [para. 4.5(a)]J and
(11i) a technical assistance (TA) component aimed at supporting ongoing
efforts to strengthen BRI's institutional capability for improving its Unit
Desa and rural banking activities [para. 4.Sb)].
121 Inclusion of this clause in BRI's Unit Desa Strategy Statement was
agreed during negotiations for the first KUPEDES Project.



_ 24 -
B. The Credit Component - Operational Projections and Resource Requirements
4.3      Projected KUPEDES lending operations for 1990-92 (Annex 6, Table 6)
are based on the Unit Desas' past experience and reflect BRI's strategy to
reach a larger number of borrowers as well as make larger loans (para. 3.17).
During this three-year period, annual disbursements are projected to increase
at an average annual rate of about 35 percent (Rp 500 billion per year); the
portfolio outstanding would grow at a corresponding rate, from Rp 845.6
billion (at end-1989) to Rp 1.94 trillion. This rate of growth, comparable
with that achieved during 1986-89, appears reasonable and sustainable.
Emphasis will also continue to be placed on resource mobilization, but the
dramatic increases achieved during the last two years are unlikely to be
sustained (deposits almost doubled each year--from Rp 288 billion at end-1987
to Rp 493 billion at end-1988 to Rp 953 billion at end-1989). A major
uncertainty is the extent to which competition for small savers from other
financial intermediaries will materialize. Therefore, a more modest
20 percent average annual growth rate is projected. with total deposits at the
Unit Desas increasing from Rp 954 billion at end-1989 to Rp 1.64 trillion at
end-1992*
4.4      Based on the above scenario. the KUPEDES portfolio, by end-1992,
would exceed total deposits mobilized by the Unit Desas by Rp 300 billion.
However, taking into consideration other resources available to the Unit Desa
syt-em (para. 3.28) and adjusting for the system's various reserve and working
cash requirements, the projected overall resource position of the Unit Desa
system shows a net liquidity position (excluding Bank funds under the proposed
project) declining from Rp 545 billion at end-1989 to only Rp 45 billion at
end-1992. With the inflow of Bank loan funds as projected under the proposed
project, the Unit Desas' net liquidity position would amount to Rp 264
billion. Under the proposed project, total Bank funds (including Ln.
2800-IND) as a percentage of total resources available to the Unit Desa system
would increase from 11.8 percent at end-1989 to 17.4 percent at end-1992 (see
Table 4.1 below).  At the same time, total long-term resources, which provide
a measure of overall stability to the Unit Desas' resource base, would decline
from 32 percent to 26.2 percent of total funds available for KUPEDES lending
(due to repayments of Rp 86.2 billion made during this period on outstanding
BI liquidity credits and the Exim Bank of Japan loan). Without the proposed
Bank loan, long-term funds would comprise only 18.1 percent of-the Unit Desas'
resource base.



- 25 -
Table 4.1s ACTUAL AND PROJECTED TOTAL RESOURCES AVAILABLE TO THE
UNIT DESA SYSTEM, END-1989 AND END-1992
Actual end-1989     Proiected end-1992
Rp          z         Rp          z
Resource                              (billion)  of total  (billion)  of total
Kredit Mini (equity) grant              66.7        4.8       66.7        3.0
Converted Kredit Midi                 }
BI liquidity credit                   1165.4       11.8      89.4         4.0
IBRD Loan 2800-IND                     165.7       11.8     165.7         7.5
Exim Bank of Japan                      50.7        3.6       40.5        1.8
TABANAS (Unit De8as only)              113.7        8.1     151.3         6.8
SIMPEDES                               694.7       49.6   1.247.5        56.1
Deposits and Ciro                      145.1       10.3     242.2        10.9
Proposed IBUD loan                       -          -       219.6         9.9
Total                             1,402.0      100.0   2,222.9       100.0
KUPEDES loans                          845.6              1,937.2
Net system liquidity (without
proposed IBRD loan)                  545.5                 44.9
Net system liquidity (with
proposed IBRD loan)                  545.5                264.5
However, as summarized in Table 4.2 below, the Unit Desas' resource position
as of December 31, 1992, is very sensitive to even modest changes in loan and
savings growth assumptions.  Either a decrease in the annual savings growth
rate of only 5 percent or a 5 percent increase in the annual growth rate of
the KUPEDES portfolio would result in significant pet liquidity deficits (of
Rp 134.6 billion and Rp 183.6 billion, respectively) without the proposed Bank
loan.



- 26 -
Table 4.2: SENSITIVITY OF PROJECTED TOTAL RESOURCES AVAILABLE
TO THE UNIT DESA SYSTEM TO CHANGES IN GROWTH RATES, END-1992
Growth in
Growth in         annual KUPEDES
annual savings SZ      portfolio 52
less than expected  more than expected
Rp          S         Rp         2
Resource                              (billion)  of total  (billion)  of total
Kredit Mini (equity) grant             66.7         3.3      66.7        3.0
Converted Kredit Midi                }
BI liquidity credit                    89.4         4.4      89.4        4.0
ThBD Loan 2800-IND                    165.7         8.2     165.7        7.5
Exim Bank of Japan                     40.5         2.0      40.5        1.8
TABARAS (Unit Deass only)             151.3         7.4     151.3        6.8
SINPEDES                            1,056.6       52.0   1,247.5        56.1
Deposits and Giro                     242.2        11.9     242.2       10.9
Proposed IBRD loan                    219.6        10.8     219.6        9.9
Total                            2,032.0        100.0   2,222.9     100.0
KuPEDES loans                       1,937.2               2,174.0
Net system liquidity (without
proposed IBRD loan)                 (134.6)              (183.6)
Net system liquidity (with
proposed IBRD loan)                  85.0                  36.0
C. Capital Expenditure and Technical Assistance Components
4.5      The proposed capital expenditure and TA components would provide
ongoing support to efforts initiated under the first KUPEDES Project to
strengthen the Unit Desa system.
(a) Expasion of Unit Desa Training Facilities. The proposed ezpansion
will permit BRI to complete the second phase of construction and to
consolidate each of its five regional training operations at a single
location, thereby eliminating the need ti'. rent outside facilities.
Long-term training projections show that these expanded facilities
will be fully utilized over the next seven years, while adequately
accommodating total Unit Desa training needs. The proposed expansion
(Annex 7) provides for an additional nine full classrooms (including
the associated dormitory, discussion room and teacher housing
facilities for 3S5 students per classroom) and five computer rooms
(including computers for training). This expansion will complement
the 14 classrooms and ancillary facilities already cbnstructedlunder
construction. Estimated total cost of this component is $5.2



- 27 _
milion. Except for Ujung Pandang, no additional land acquisition is
required for these expansions. Designs are already completed. Local
competitive bidding procedures would be used for awarding the
respective construction contractst this is expected to be done during
the latter part of 1990/early 1991, with construction completed at
all five sites by end-l991. Construction costs are based on
specifications used in the first-phase construction and Ministry of
Public Works February 1990 unit cost estimates.
(b)  Technical Assistance.  Financing for the long-term advisory team for
Unit Desa operation currently provided by USAID will end in early
1991 (para. 3.7). BRI has requested that advisory services continue
to be provided, given the limited track record of the program and
plans for its expansion. Funds out of the TA component of the
proposed project would provide for three full-time (i.e., 36 staff-
months each) positions% (i) a Senior Policy Advisory; (ii) a
Traiuing Coordinator; and (i.l) an Information and Survey Assistant.
These advisors, preferably to be engaged as a team, would continue to
report to the President-Director of BRI and coordinate on a day-to-
day basis with the Business Unit Desa Department. The terms of
reference for these positions (Annex 8) were agreed at negotiations.
Funds would also be provided out of this component for 48 person-
months of short-term specialists to be engaged, as needed through
1993, for undertaking special activities aimed at improving BRI's
Unit Desa and rural banking activities, in particular, for field
studies, training development and evaluation, supervision
improvement, portfolio management, marketing research, and service
and product development.
D. Proiect Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
4.6      KUPEDES borrowers and the nature of their credit needs preclude
defining total investment costs (including foreign exchange requirements) and
preparing a firm financing plan. The size of the proposed project's credit
component is based on BRI's projection of total disbursements for BUPEDES
loans, assuming no resource constraints, through 1992 (para. 4.3). Total
project costs, including contingencies,13/ are estimated at $2,617.6 million
and are summarized in Table 4.3 below. The estimated total project cost is
exclusive of direct duties and taxes, which are negligible. The foreign
131 Cost estimates are based on February 1990 prices. Physical
contingencies of 20 percent have been provided for the expansion of the
training centers. Price contingencies, on the capital expenditure and
TA components only, have been calculated on the basis of estimated
annual Increases in both local and foreign prices of 6 percent during
1990-93; following the usual practice, the credit component does not
include any contingencies.



-28-
exchange' component is estimated at $788.0 million.l4/  Of the project's total
-cost, $2,099.6 million would be financed by loan repayments generated by
KUPEDES borrowers; the remaining project cost associated with the credit line
under the proposed project isiestimated atl$5l0.5 million and represents the
incremental growth in the KUPEDES outstanding portfolio. This incremental
KUPEDES loan portfolio, and the proposed capital expenditure ($5.2 million)
and TA ($2.3 million) components represent that part of estimated total
project costs to be financed with the proposed loan.
Table 4.3: TOTAL PROJECT COST
(S million)
Local        Foreign      Total
Estimated Cost Ia
Cumulative KUPEDES Credit Component           1,827.1         783.0     2,610.1
Of which:  incremental portfolio growth       (357.3)      (153.2)      (510.5)
Capital Expenditure Component
Unit Desa training centers                       1.9          2.0          3.9
Computer equipment                              0.1           0.2          0.3
Technical Assistance Component
Long-term advisory team (108 staff-months)       -            1.2          1.2
Short-term consultants (48 staff-months)        -             0.7          0.7
Base Cost                                1,829.1         787.1     2,616.2
Physical contingencies                             0.4          0.4          0.8
Price contingencies                                0.1 '        0.5          0.6
Total Proiect Cost                       1,829.6         788.0     2,617.6
la  Exclusive of duties and taxes which are insignificant.
lb  For th1  period July 1, 1990-September 30, 1992.
4.7      The financing plan for the proposed project is summarized in Table
4.4 below.  The credit line under the proposed Bank loan would finance no more
than 30 percent of the incremental growth in KUPEDES loans outstanding.7-and
would represent slightly less than 5 percent of total KUPEDES loans disbursed
141 Based on previous Bank projects that comprised credit lines, the direct
and indirect foreign exchange component of investmeuits financed under
these credit lines has been estimated in the range of 50 to 60 percent
of total projeci cost.  In these projects, a significant part of
project costs involved imported equipment anu machinery.  Under the         -
proposed credit line, little if any expenditures are expected to
involve direct imports (para. 4.11). Based on indirect foreign
exchange demand, the imputed foreign exchange content of KUPEDES
investments is estimated at 30 percent.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



- 29 -
during July 1, 1990-September 30, 1992 (comparable figures under the first
KUPEDES Project were 46 percent and 9 percent, respectively). The Bank loan
would finance 100 percent of the direct foreign exchange costs of $2.3 million
required for TA and 52 percent of the estimated foreign exchange costs of $2.7
million for capital expenditure.
Table 4.4t FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Local        Foreign       Total
Cumulative KUPEDES Credit Component         1,827.1       783.0         2,610.1
IBRD (for incremental portfolio)              -         120.0           120.0
Incremental Unit Desa savings mobi-
lization (for incremental portfolio)      263.1        33.2           296.3
Other BRI/Unit Desa system resources
(for incremental portfolio)                94.2         -             94.2
Repayments of previous KUPEDES loans      1,469.8       629.8         2,099.6
Capital Expenditure Component                   2.5         2.7             5.2
IBRD                                          -           2.7             2.7
BRI                                           2.5         -               2.5
Technical Assistance Component                  -           2.3             2.3
IBRD                                          -           2.3             2.3
Total Financing                        1,829.6       788.0         2,617.6
E. Features of the Loan
Lending ArranRements
4.8      The proposed Bank loan of $125 million would be lent to the Republic
of Indonesia for 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate. These funds would be onlent to BRI
(in Rupiah) for the same repayment and grace periods. As a result of recent
discussions between the Bank and the GOI regarding the onlending rate in two-
step loans, a more transparent mechanism than used in past loans would be
adopted under the proposed project for ensuring that the onlending rate for
Bank funds reflects the market rate for domestic term funds in Indonesia. The
onlending rate to BRI will be at a variable interest rate pegged to Bl's
three-month SBI (until the introduction of a six-month certificate in June
1990, this was BI's SBI of longest tenor). This rate would be adjusted on
January 1 and July 1 of each year, based on the average of SBI three-month
maturity quotations during the preceding six months. While the Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk, this formula for establishing the cost
of funds from the GOI to BRI includes an implicit premium reflecting market
expectations regarding exchange rate changes, since deposit rates in Indonesia
are market-determined and capital'-flows are generally unrestriCted. Based on



- 30 -
1990 data, this arrangement would result in an onlending rate to BRI of about
14.3 percent per annum for the period July 1 - December 31, 1990,15/ which is
positive in real terms.  To protect BRI from possibly excessive volatility in
the reference rate, the onlending rate vould not exceed the average of end-of-
day quotations of the five SCBs' three-month time deposits during the same
preceding six-month period. An understanding was reached at negotiations that
on July 1 of each year, comuencing July 1, 1991, at the request of either the
Borrower or the Bank, the basis for determining the onlending rate from the
00I to BRI would be reviewed with the objective of either ensuring that the
three-month SBI rate appropriately reflects the cost of domestic term funds or
agreeing on an alternative that does reflect this cost. The GOI would also
charge BRI a commitment fee on the undisbursed balance of the loan equal to
the commitment fee payable by the GOI to the Bank. The signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between BRI and the GOI
is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.9      End-user Terms.  The effective annual interest rate to IUPEDES
borrowecs would be about 31.7 percent per annum on loans of Rp 3 million and
less; for loans between Rp 3 million and Rp 25 million, the effective
annualized interest rate would gradually decline from 31.7 percent per annum
to 22.7 percent per annum. Implementation of this revised interest rate
structure (which, based on current market conditions, it appropriate--
para. 3.17) was a condition of loan negotiations. These rates enable BRI's
Unit Desas to cover their costs of operation, including an adequate provision
for loan losses, and provide them a reasonable profit. The appropriateness of
KUPEDES interest rates (as well as of the interest rates offered on various
savings investments) is reviewed by BRI on an ongoing basis in light of both
the Unit Desas' operating and financial performance, and in view of changes in
market conditions. Modification of the KUPEDES interest rate structure would
be done only with the prior agreement of the Bank. It was confirmed during
negotiations, that, as under the first KUPEDES project, at least 50 percent of
the margin between the cost to BRI of the Bank loan proceeds and the onlending
rate to the Unit Desas would be credited to the Unit Desa Development Fund.
Loan Administration
4.10     Procurement. Under the RUPEDES program, subloans are very small;
competitive bidding procedures would be impractical. Goods and services
procured with subloan proceeds would be acquired through normal commercial
channels available to the borrowers. Because of the relatively small size and
dispersed nature of civil works and goods involved, construction of the
training center expansions and acquisition of computer equipment will be
procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures in accordance with
Government guidelines, acceptable to the Bank. (Foreign suppliers of computer
equipment will be allowed to participate if they wish.) Bidding packages over
$1.0 million will be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation. Consultants to be financed under the proposed loan would be
15/ The current rate being paid by BRI under the first KUPEDES Project is
12.21 percent; this rate is adjusted every six months, equal to the
average cost of BEI's customer deposits (excluding noninterest-bearing
deposits from the GOI or GO0-owned entities).



-31-
selected In accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency". Terms of
reference and the appoint;nett of all consultants financed by the Bank under
the. project would be subject to prior Bank approval. The procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 4.5 below.
Table 4.5. PROCUREMENT METHOD
($ million)
Project component           ICB      LCB     Other        N.A.       Total cost
1.  Credit                    -      -    2,610.1/a         -         2,610.1
of whicht incremental
portfolio growth                  510,5                       510.5
(120.0)         -          (120.0)
2. Capital expenditure
(i) Construction of       -      4.9      -            -              4.9
training centers          (2.5)                                (2.5)
(ii) Computer equiprment   -     0.3      -            -              0.3
(0.2)                               (0.2)
3.  Technical assistance      -      -        2.3Lb         -             2.3
(2.3)                      (2.3)
Total               -      5.2  2, 612.4         _          2,617.6
(2.7)  (122.3)                    (125.0)
la Goods and services procured with subloan proceeds would be acquired
through normal channels available to the KaPEDES borrowers.
lb Following Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
Notes Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the Bank.
4.11     Disbursement.  Even with the increase in the maximum subloan size to
Rp 25 million, it is expected that the vast majority of loans made under
KUPEDES during the next few years will continue to be relatively small. There
,is likely to be little, if any, direct foreign exchange expenditures under the
proposed credit line. Therefore, the proposed disbursement formula takes into
consideration imputed foreign exchange content and the need to maintain
appropriate incentives for BRI and the Unit Desas to sustain their resource
mobilization efforts.  For the credit component, t#e Bank loan disbursements
would be on the basis of 5 percent of new KUPEDES loan approvals (i.e.,
disbursements) during a quarter, provided that the Unit DesasIBRI finance with
their own resources at least 70 percent of the incremental growth in the



- 32 -
XUPEDES .oan portfolio.161 This arrangement is designed so as to encourage
the Unit Desas' resource mobilization efforts; at the same time, it does not
penalize them if they are successful and exceed this 70 percent criterion.
BRI would submit quarterly requests for reimbursement with Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) consisting of supporting documentation on KUPEDES loan
disbursements and repayments during the quarter plus the beginning and ending
outstanding balances of the KUPEDE3 loan portfolio. For the capital
expenditure component, the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against
approved contracts, and would cover: for civil works, 50 pe-cent of total
expenditures; and for equipment, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 60 percent of other local
expenditures. Disbursements under the TA component would be 100 percent of
consultant costs against standard documentation, except for contracts valued
at less than $100,000 which would oe claimed under SOEs. Based on projected
KUPEDES lending operations (paras. 4.3-4.4), the credit component is expected
to be disbursed in 27 months. The capital expenditure component is expected
to be disbursed over a one year period beginning mid-1991; the TA component,
by June 30, 1994.  Based on the experience of the first TDPEDES Project
(para. 3.7), this implementation schedule is realistic and achievable.
Therefore, a disbursement period of four years, as assumed for the proposed
project is more appropriate than the five-and-a-half years provided by the
standard disbursement profile for IDF projects in the Asia Region (Annex 9).
The closing date for the loan would thus be June 30, 1994.
4.12     Environmental Impact.  There is no evidence that any significant
environmental damage is attributed to current KUPEDES-financed activities.
However, with the increase in the KUPEDES' loan ceiling, larger
entrepreneurial activities, with greater potential for pollution, can be
anticipated. BRI has incorporated in its Unit Desa Policy Statement (Annex 4)
its commitment to comply with Government environmental standards and
regulations. Future impact studies and surveys of Unit Desa operations would
identify changes in the composition of subsector lending as well as any
growing proportion of potentially polluting subsectors. Should a shift
towards such subsectors be observed, appropriate follow-up measures would then
be pursued during the course of project supervision. BRI also intends to
produce a series of booklets on appropriate investment technologies for
distribution to both Unit Desa staff and KUPEDES borrowers. Initially, four
investment activities would be covered: (a) small-scale food processing;
(b) small-scale livestock; (c) small-scale clay products; and (d) small-scale
textile and yarn. One focus of these booklets would be on production methods
that could minimize pollution-contributing outputs.
4.13     Auditing and Reporting.  BRI's accounts and SOB documentation would
be audited by the Government's Agency for Financial and Development
Supervision (BPKP), which is acceptable to the Bank. The report of the
16/ Under the first KUPEDES project, disbursements were based on the higher
of eithert  (a) 10 percent of disbursements of new KUPEDES loan
approvals during a quarter, with a ceiling of 65 percent of the total
increment in the RUPEDES loan portfolio outstanding during the first
year of the project and 60 percent thereafter; or (b) 50 percent of the
increment in the total KUPEDES loan portfolio outstanding.



-33-
external auditor, in English, would be submitted to the Bank annually and no
later than nine months after the end of BRI's fiscal year. Audit submissions
under the first KUPEDES Project have been satisfactory, although BRI's audited
accounts have been two-to-three months late. To help address this problem,
BRI would provide to the Bank, copies of itp unaudited accounts (in English)
at the same time they are submitted to BPXP, but no later than six months
after the close of its fiscal year. The auditing requirements would encompass
three areas: BRIT's annual accounts; the SOEs periodically prepared by BRI for
reimbursement under the proposed loan, including the quarter-by-quarter
disbursements, repayments, and beginning and ending balances of the
outstanding KUPEDES loan portfolio during the period of project implemen-
tation; and confirmation that reimbursements claimed by BRI are in respect of
Unit Desa operations and are consistent with the terms of agreements included
in the Loan Agreement with the Bank. These audit arrangements were confirmed
at negotiations. BRI would also be required to submit quarterly progress
reports, acceptable to the Bank, covering Unit Desa operations, as well as a
Project Completion Report within six months following the loan closing date.
F. Proiect Benefits 4nd Risks
4.14     Benefits.  BRI's Unit Desa experience to date clearly demonstrates
that a nonsubsidized, small credit program, with a strong emphasis on borrovet
accessibility and savings mobilization, can be efficiently and profitably
implemented. At the same time, BRI has also demonstrated convincingly its
intention to compete efficiently and profitably in an increasingly deregulated
financial sector. Under the proposed project, Unit Desa operations would be
expanded and continued access to credit by eligible borrowers would be
ensured. In addition, as has also been demonstrated to date (paras.
3.19-3.26), substantial socioeconomic benefits are expected to be derived from
this growing program.
4.15     Risks.  The major risk is that of deterioration in the KUPEDES loan
portfolio. This is mitigated by BRI's satisfactory, albeit relatively short,
track record to date, and its demonstrated commitment to making the Unit Desa
system a profitable and efficient profit center within BRI. Moreover,
sustained emphasis on staff training and strong supervision, complemented with
appropriate advisory and consulting services, will contribute towards the
continued implementation of sound lending and supervision procedures that are
associated with the maintenance of a high-quality loan portfolio.
V. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS
5.1      During negotiations, the following agreements and understandings were
reached with BRIs
(a) BRI's updated Unit Desa Policy Statement and Unit Desa Strategy
Statement, as adopted by BRI's Board of Managing Directors, would not
be amended vithout prior agreement of the Bank (para. 3.8);
(b) the agreement between BI and BRI concerning the repayment by BRI of
liquidity credits outstanding as of March 1, 1987, as agreed under



_ 34 -
the first XUPEDES project, would not be changed without the Bank'O
agreement (para. 3.28);
(c) in the event that arrears of one day or more should exceed 8 percent
of the portfolio over a six-month period, BRI would furnish the Bank,
within three months, information relating to actions taken and its
action plan to reduce such arrears (para. 3.32);
(d) modification of the interest rate structure for i:'PEDES loans to
final borrowers would be done only with the prior agreement of the
Bank (para. 4.9);
(e)  SRI would continue to allocate to the Unit Desa Development Fund at
least 50 percent of the margin between the cost to Itself of the Bask
loan pro*-eeds and the onlending rate to the Unit Desas (para* 4.9);
and
(f) the formula for disbursement of Bank proceeds for KIPEDES loans
(para. 4.11).
5.2      During negotiations, agreement and understanding were reached with
the Government on the lending terms to BRI (para. 4.8).
5.3      The condition of loan effectiveness is the signing of a subsidiary
loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the GOI and BRI (para. 4.8).
5.4      Recommendation.  Subject to the above agreements, the project would
be saitable for a loan of $125.0 million to the Republic of Indonesia for 20
years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard 'variable
Interest rate.



35 -ANNE  1
INDONESIA
SECOND BRIIKUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Proiect File
A. Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
A.1    BRI Corporate Plan (1989-93), dated June 26, 1989
A.2    Review of BRI's Recently Implemented CP&P Manual, dated November
16, 1989
A.3    BRI Annual Report 1988 (draft English version)
B. The BRI Unit Desa System and KUPEDES
B.1    Briefing Booklet - KUPEDES Development Impact Study (December 1989)
B.2    Briefing Booklet - KUPEDES Development ImPact Study (final -
March 1990)
B.3    Unit Desa Projections, 1990-92 (Various scenarios), including
sensitivity
B.4    Plan for Recruitment of Unit Desa Staff - 1990 (dated May 9, 1990)
B.5    Overall Training Position - December 31, 1989
B.6    Unit Desa Staffing Position, by Region, as of December 31, 1989
B.7    KUPEDES Loans Outstanding, mid-1987 through end-1988 (by sector and
type of loan)
B.8    RUPEDES Loans Outstanding, by no., amount and region, December 31,
1878 and February 28, 1990
3.9    Unit Desa Deposits Outstanding, by type, no., amount and region,
December 31, 1990, and February 28, 1990
B.10   Reporting Formats (from the Unit Desas to the Branch)
B.l1   Reporting Formats (from the Branch to the Region)
o.12   Draft circular outlining revised KUPEDES parameters (effective
May 1, 1990)
3-13   BRI Internal Memo res  Failure Rates of Trainee Candidates -
Bandung 1989
B.14   Effective Interest Rate Schedule for KUPEDES Loans.
B.15   Collection of all BRI Circulars (in Bahasa) issued in 1989, related
to the Unit Desa System
B.16   Collection of all SRI Circulars (in Bahasa) issued in 1990, related
to the Unit Desa System
C. The Proiect's Capital Expenditure and TA Components
C.1    Booklet on Padang Unit Desa Training Center
C.2    Training Projections (1980-97):  by regional center, staff and
classroom
C.3    Actual Cost Figures for Padumg and Bandung Centers
C.4    Summarized Specifications for Expanding Five Training Centers and
Estimated Costs
C.5    Computer and Printer Specifications
D. Other
D.1    BI's SBI rates:  January - March 1990, by type and date of
quotation.



-36-                                ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND BRIIKUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia - Institutional Aspects
1.       This Annex provides a brief summary of the Performance Improvement
Program (PIP) that was initiated by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) with technical
assistance provided under Loans 2430-IND and 2800-IND. In addition, it
provides an overview of BRI's (i) organizational structure, (ii) loan
portfolio, and (iii) financial condition and performance since 1984.
BRI's Performance Improvement Program
2.       In July 1986, the consulting firm initiated the Performance
Improvement Program (PIP) with BRI. A two-phased approach was formulated to
achieve the objective of developing BRI into a more cost effective and
profitable organization. Phase I (July-November 1986) was a diagnostic review
designed to identify all major potential areas for BRI performance
improvement, define and set priorities for improvement, and develop an
Implementation plan. Phase II (December 1986-April 1989) was devoted to the
creation and implementation of specific performance improvements. The second
phase was conducted on a best effort basis, with both parties understanding
that actual progress achieved would depend to a large extent on BRI's ability
to absorb change and its staff's skill and preparation levels.
3.       At the end of Phase I, five areas were identified in which
substantial improvements were both needed and feasible in a relatively short
(one to two year) time period. These were:
(a) Organizations Develop an effective senior management structure with
clear assignment of accountability for head office divisions and a
model regional office;
(b) Audits Improve audit results by strengthening audit compliance and
tightening audit procedures;
(c) Operations: Improve branch efficiency and effectiveness by
developing and implementing a new structure, including bookkeeping
and teller systems, in a model branch and preparing a roll-out plan
to extend the model across the bank;
(d) Manpowers Upgrade staff skills and attitude by developing four core
personnel systems, strengthening the training infrastructure,
implementing these for credit staff, and launching a bank-wide
culture change program; and
(e) Credit: Improve overall credit management by building a new credit
management organizational structure (branch, regional, head office),
improving selected credit procedures, and piloting these cmanges in a
segment of the organization.



-37 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 2
Although consultant input was originally scheduled to be completed within two
years, a further year and a half of support was necessary to cover the actual
introduction of the new organizational structure, systems and procedures into
BRI. The results of the PIP are discussed in the paragraphs below. Full
implementation of the PIP, of course, continues, as institutional reform is a
long-term and ongoing undertaking.
BRI's 1989 Corporate Plan
4.       BRI's PIP has helped prepare the institution for increased
competition and, in 1989, led to the adoption of a new Corporate Plan. The
Plan sets BRI's strategic direLtion for the next five years by defining its
position in the new market place based upon its expected competitive
advantages. The Corporate Plan builds on BRI's position as a premier retail
bank in Indonesia by emphasizing the provision of financial and related
servines primarily to consumers, small businesses and agricultural segments of
the domestic market. It also acknowledges that BRI's proven capability to
mobilize private domestic funds from this market will provide resources for
lending and commercial banking services to a select corporate clientele.
5.       BRI's Plan encompasses five business areas and builds on current
institutional reforms underway. The Plan identifies BRI's extensive branch
and subbranch network as its key asset and incorporates activities and
procedures designed to maximize use of this asset. With regard to business
opportunities, BRi plans to pursue aggressive growth in its Unit Desa and
consumer/small business activities and more selective, focused development of
commercial, corporate and agricultural activities. The percentage breakdown
of BRI's 1988 average assets by business activity (including treasury
operations), and the redistribution of assets expected by 1993 if BRI
successfully implements its Plan, are summarized in Table 1 below.
Table 1: PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN DISTRIBUTION OF BRI'S ASSETS
Z Distribution of              Expected X Distribution of
1988 Average Assets            Average Assets by 1993
Unit Desa                   5.4                               8.2
Consumer/Small
Business                33.4                              44.5
Commercial                 23.8                              22.2
Agricultural               15.4                              14.0
Corporate                   7.5                               4.7
Treasury
Operations              14.5                               6.4
TOTAL               100.0                              100.0
6.       The significant expansion for Unit Desa and consumer/small business
activities implied in the Plan reflects the strong competitive position of BRi
in these areas. Based on analysis included in the Corporate Plan, preliminary



-38-                               ANNEX 2
Page 3
data for 1988 indicate that BRI has captured 55 percent of the village-level
market for credit (the remainder being provided by pawnshops, paddy banks and
village banks) and 99 percent of the market for deposits. BRI is also a
forerunner in consumerlsmall business credit with a market share of
40 percent. By comparison, BRI is a very small participant in the commercial
and corporate markets with 1988 market shares of 10 percent and 4 percent,
respectively. The profitability of these operations has also been minimal.
Recognizing these factors, BRI expects that its exposure in comuercial lending
will not significantly change over the next five years and that it will
probably lose some corporate customers to stronger competitors in the market.
Due to its previously mandated exposure to agricultural sector lending, BRI's
market share of agricultural credit is commanding (42 percent); the
performance of this portfolio, however, in general has been poor due to the
very large number of relatively small loans at low net interest margins. In
particular, 'channeling' loans (those loans for which BRI acts as
administrator for government-funded but noninterest-bearing credit programs),
which account for only 14 percent of BRI's total agricultural credits,
contribute to 54 percent of overhead expenses for the agricultural portfolio
and have a negative return on assets of nearly 25 percent; the remainder of
the agricultural portfolio has a return on assets of 1.6 percent. As a result
of this performance record, BRI intends to emphasize a consolidation of its
existing agricultural portfolio and will place future lending efforts on
developing its agribusiness portfolio.
Management, Or anization and Staffing
7.       ManaRement. BRI's five member Board of Managing Directors is
responsible for implementing the regulatory policies set by the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and BI; each director, with the exception of the President-
Director, also has a distinct supervisory function for certain activities of
the bank. The organization chart for BRI's Head Office is presented in
Attachment 1. Each board member is appointed by the President of Indonesia
for a five-year renewable term. The three members of the Board of Supervisors
are also appointed by the Government for a three-year term; this Board is
responsible for ensuring BRI compliance with established banking policies and
regulations. As the government role in funding priority programs and
allocating credit has diminished with the liberalization of the financial
sector, the autonomy of BRI's management in establishing credit policies and
procedures has increased.   A significant outcome of BRT's PIP was the
adoption by BRI's Board in 1988 of a new Credit Policy and new Credit
Processes and Procedures (CP&P). The CP&P explicitly recognize the role of
BRI's Board of Directors in establishing appropriate policy guidelines rather
than focusing on individual lending decisions. The new policy establishes the
Credit Policy Committee, which includes the Board of Directors, the four
managers of the various business departments, the managers of the Credit
Administration and Planning and Research Departments, as well as BRI's Chief
Auditor, Treasurer and Legal Counselor. The Committee meets as necessary to
discuss changes in credit policy to be proposed to the Board, but regular
meetings of the Committee are anticipated in the future.
8.       Organization.  BRI's current organization comprises its Head Office,
15 regional offices, 315 branches and about 2,850 Unit Desas. A key feature
of BRI's PIP was the reorganization of head office and regional activities.
It was recognized that BRI's former organization largely reflected its



ANNEX 2
Page 4
functions as an agent of the government. The organization of BRI's operations
was chiefly according to available credit lines and staff initiative was
limited to directing applicants to the appropriate lending mechanism;
accountability for lending decisions was diffuse. Important outcomes of the
organizational recommendations of the PIP were tot (i) give BRI's
organization a "business' focus; (ii) establish greater control over regional
operations; and (iii) strengthen the internal audit function.
9.       In o-der to strengthen BRI's commercial orientation, it was
recognized that staff attitudes needed to change from reactive transaction
management according to existing credit lines to proactive customer
relationship management. As a first step towards making this significant
change, BRI in 1988 reorganized its head office and regional staff along the
five business activities discussed in para. 5 above: Unit Desa, small
business, commercial, corporate and agriculture. The Unit Desa and small
business departments have been placed under the authority of one managing
director, while each of the other three managing directors has responsibility
for one of the remaining business departments. Moreover, the newly adopted
CP&P (para. 3.8) include a number of measures to help staff make better
lending decisions (the most important of which is basing lending on cash flow
analysis rather than collateral coverage) and to hold staff accountable for
their decisions.
10.      Prior to the 1988 reorganization, the 15 regional managers reported
directly to the President Director. Now, three regional groups have been
established under the supervision of the managing directors and new line
management positions of Regional Business Managers have been created in the
Read Office to help monitor regional operations. The organization of regional
operations mirrors that of the Head Office.
11.      In the context of the 1988 reorganization, the internal audit
function was also strengthened considerably. A separate department, both
within the Head Office and the regional offices, was created, headed by the
newly appointed Chief Auditor who reports directly to the President-Director.
Within the department, a Professional Practices Group focuses on the
development of a new Technical Audit Manual to guide the work of all auditors.
It must be recognized, however, that auditing standards within the country are
still weak and the number of well-qualified auditors is very limited
nationwide. The Bank is currently implementing, under Loan 2940-IND, a long-
term project with the Government aimed at strengthening the accounting and
auditing capacities within Indonesia. BRI accepts the need to better train
its own audit staff and has developed three new basic audit training courses
that have been delivered already to about 350 staff.
12.      Staffing.  As of year-end 1989, BRI's staff numbered about 33,000;
about 30,000 are permanent personnel and the remainder are monthly/daily wage
earners. About 40 percent of BRI's staff is assigned to the Unit Desas. The
vast majority of BRI's staff comprises high school graduates. About 1,100
staff members have college degrees and only 14 have masters degrees, although
BRI is currently sponsoring another 20 people in their masters degree
programs. While BRI accepts that the overall number of staff is sufficient,
pockets of over-staffing do exist, particularly at clerical levels, and the
quality of current staff may not yet be equal to implementing the significant
procedural changes implicit with the retent reorganization and PIP. In



-40-                                ANNEX 2
Page 5
addition, a number of departments are understaffed at the professional level.
To deal with these issues, BRI management is considering offering incentives
for early retirement for those staff not likely to meet its new institutional
requirements (roughly estimated at 1,500). In addition, a significant
training program (largely in-house) is underway to upgrade the capabilities of
existing staff (para. 14 below). BRI is also actively recruiting staff
directly from universities with the objective of bringing on board about 300
new graduates per year for the next ten years.
13.      Historically, staff turnover in BRI has been low (in 1987, only 279
employees out of 31,290 left BRI for reasons other than retirement) due
largely to strong institutional loyalty and a salary and benefit package
competitive with those of the other SCBs. It is unclear, as yet, how
increasing competition within the banking sector will effect future turnover,
particularly for staff with college and graduate degrees who may be able to
coimand better compensation from the private sector.
14.      Trainina.  Training represents a considerable undertaking for such a
large and diverse staff. A substantial in-house training program is
administered by BRI's Training Department. As the Department is small (21
authorized positions of which only ten are now filled), it focuses on
developing course materials with the support of relevant operational staff and
training trainers from within the ranks of BRI staff. Apart from Unit Desa
operations (para. 3.11 of the SAR text), training in 1988 was targeted to
about 5,600 account and credit officers to help implement the new CP&P; a few
crash programs in new operating procedures for auditors, bookkeepers and
tellers were also offered.   In addition to in-house training, BRI recently
concluded a program with Citibank for staff training in retail banking
operations and maintains an ongoing relationship with LPPI, the training
institution supported by the banking sector in Indonesia, for training related
to branch operations and foreign exchange operations. In 1989, about 250
staff benefited from external training courses. BRI's 1989 training budget
amounted to about ap 15 billion (about $8.3 million) and will increase to
about Rp 25 billion (about $13.9 million) in 1990.
Quality of Portfolio
15.      As indicated in para. 3.1 of the SAR text, a substantial portion of
BRlI's loan portfolio has been extended under the direction and with the
financial backing of the Government. For 1989, BRI carried the direct credit
risk on only about 40 percent of its loan portfolio; the remainder of the
portfolio is 75-100 percent guaranteed by the Government or one of its
agencies. Experience to date indicates that the Government has honored its
guarantee commitments to BRI. In keeping with banking practice in Indonesia,
BRI (as well as the other SCBs) classifies loans with 100 percent guarantees
as fully collectible, regardless of current repayment status. For delinquent
loans, only those portions of loans not covered by guarantees and those loans
for which BRI carries the direct credit risk are adversely classified. As a
result, BRI's audit for 1983 shows that 92 percent of its total portfolio is
collectible, 4 percent has slight problems, 3 percent represent doubtful
accounts, and 1 percent is bad debt. However, for the portion of the
portfolio for which BRI bears the credit risk (loans made without guarantees



- 41-                              ANNEX 2
Page 6
plus the unguaranteed portion of directed creditsl/), about 85 percent is
classified as collectible. Provisions for possible losses amounted to
3.5 percent of the 1988 loan portfolio. In 1986, BRI experienced a windfall
of Rp 118 billion as a result of the September devaluation which was used to
charge off doubtful loans and restore the provision for possible loan losses.
Collections against previously written-off amounts were healthy in 1987 and
1988 (Rp 19 billion and Rp 14 billion, respectively), and consequently the
pressure to write off debt over the last few years has been reduced.
16.      Despite the rather encouraging picture that emerges regarding the
quality of BRI's portfolio according to local audit criteria, BRI management
has recognized the need for a more rigorous portfolio evaluation to help guide
future lending activities and launch effective (and financially feasible)
collection programs. As a result of the PIP and implementation of new credit
procedures, a monthly monitoring system of BRI's total loan portfolio became
operational in April 1990. This system is based on account-by-account
recording of performance by the responsible account officer starting at the
branch level and aggregating through the regional and institution-wide levels.
The accuracy of recording is periodically monitored by credit administration
and internal audit officers. Accounts are presented according to BRI's five
business activities and subdivided by funding source (various liquidity
credits, World BanklADB loans, BRI's own resources, etc.). Moreover,
objective classification criteria (similar to those employed in the United
States) are utilized. Accounts are classified as current or receive one of
four adverse classifications:
(a) Accounts Requiring Special Mention: There is evidence of weakness in
the borrower's financial condition or creditworthiness, although
payments of principal and interest are timely. The borrower is
subject to an unrealistic repayment program or has inadequate sources
of funds. There is lack of adequate collateral, credit information,
or documentation to support the loan. If sufficiently severe or
advanced, these or other conditions will warrant a worse
classification, and therefore early attention, including substantive
discussions with borrowers, is required to correct deficiencies.
(b) Substandards Normal repayment of principal and interest may be. or
has been, jeopardized by severely adverse trends or developments of a
financial, managerial, economic or political nature. No loss is
foreseen but a protracted work-out is a possibility. Prompt
corrective action is therefore required to strengthen BRI's position
as a lender, andlor to reduce its exposure, and to assure that
adequate remedial measures are taken ',y the borrower.
(c) Doubtful: On the basis of information available, full collection of
principal appears questionable, and therefore a degree of eventual
loss is possible, although the amount or timing of loss is not yet
determinable. Full repayment through normal sources appears
questionable and positive and vigorous action by BRI officers is
required to avert or minimize the loss.
1/ For the purpose of this calculation, the 60 percent of the outstanding
portfolio which carries 75-100 percent guarantees has been
conservatively estimated to be guaranteed at only 75 percent.



-42-                               AN         2
!               ~~~~~Page 7
(d)  Loss (Write-Off)s  Outstandings are regarded as uncollectible.  Any
amount so classified by management, auditors or other regulatory
authorities should be promptly written off. Responsible units are
expected to continue a vigorous collection effort usually for two
years (shorter if it Is established that no further repayment or
recovery is possible).
Accounts which are classified as current are reviewed quarterly, while those
adversely classified must be reviewed and updated each month. Given that
BRI's portfolio monitoring system has only recently been introduced, system
refinements are to be expected ane modifications will be introduced, as
necessary, in light of operating experience. As an outcome of the portfolio
monitoring system, BRI intends to establish a unit to be responsible for
problem projects.
Financial Condition and Performance
17.      Financial Condition.  BRI's audited financial position for 1984-88
and provisional data for 1989 are summarized in Attachment 2. During 1984-89,
BRI's assets grew at an average annual rate of a'out 23 percent, reaching
Rp 14.7 trillion by year-end 1989. A significart portion of BRI's increase in
assets, particularly over 1987-89, is attribute le to its successful resource
mobilization efforts. Demand, time and savinr deposits have all steadily
increased over 1984-89, from Rp 1.6 trillion to Rp 6.9 trillion. The increase
in deposits has resulted in excess liquidity for BRI which has largely been
reflected in increased SBI holdings. With the recently announced retrenchment
of BI liquidity credits, however, it is expected that BRI will increasingly
fund its lending operations from its deposit base. Adjusting for BI liquidity
funding and Government loans, BRI's loan-to-deposit ratio in 1989 was
85 percent. As of year-end 1989, 78 percent of BRI's assets and 80 percent of
its liabilities were short-term, for an asset and liabilitylequity structure
which is reasonably well matched, albeit increasingly short-ternm as BRI
evolves into a more commercially oriented banking institution.
18.      As shown in Table 2 below, loans account for about 75 percent of
BRI's 1989 total assets.  Like the other SCBs, BRI's capitalization level is
very low with paid-in capital of only Rp 300 million (authorized in the Law of
Establishment of BRI); as of year-end 1989, paid-in capital and reserves
amounted to Rp 167.9 billion and retained earnings were Rp 121.3 billion
(excluding loan loss provisions of Rp 414.5 billion). BRI has been unable to
build up its capital base through profit accumulation as the Government
appropriates 45 percent of annual net after tax profits. Given its status as
a fully government-owned bank, this low level of capitalization has not been a
cause for great concern. However, with the increasing deregulation of the
financial sectoF and BRI's attempts at greater commercialization, steps will
need to be considered to establish BRI's financial independence so that it can
compete on equal terms with other banks. Reforms relating to capital adequacy
of the state banking sector as a whole, including policies on the write-down
of substandard assets and establishing dividends, are currently under
discussion with the GOl (para. 1.6 of the SAR text).



-43-                                  ANNEX 2
Page 8
Table 2: SUMM   OP  I LENDING AND oBR  ONG OPERATIONS, 1984-89
(Rp billion)
As of December 81          1984       1986      1986       1987       1988       1989
Tote) Asset.              6.182.1    6.8?8.1    SJ42.8    ?390.6    0,419.4  14J2.1
Total Loan Portfolio /    8 952      4 228.0    4 625.8      848.6    7 496.5   10 564.4
5R which:  Short-term     21,9W.-    J,218      3,581.4    4,4277    C,008W4    7:VM:7
Total Ltsbl I ttles       $,i        5 .8   6.607.6    7.4B1.4   10M222.9  14.487.9
0?whichi
BS short-term liquidity    2,084.8   1,988.8    1,966.7    2,176.0    2,816.0   8,081.8
eS long-term liquidity    962.7      9n77.      961.8     972.4    1,298.6   1,588.8
EI long-term loans         81.4       88.4      40.8       47.9       51.5      79.6
Subtotal UI              8018.9   2.949.4   2.957.8    8.195.,    8.9e1.0   4.699.?
Customr deposits (up to
ono-yer maturity)        1,559.6    1,876.6    2,664.6    8,871.1   4,888.8    0,644.6
Cust4mer deposit. (of mor
than one-year maturity)    10.9       89.6      180.8     148.2      884.0      881.4
Subtotal deposits        1.570.6    1.916.1    2.794.8    8.619.8    4.767.3    0.876.0
Government loans          106.1      104.8      188.9     16.6       812.6      544.6
/a   Net of provision for bad debts.
19.       Financial Performance.  BRI's income statements for the period
1984-89 are summarized in Attachment 3. An overview of BRI's financial
performance is presented in Table 3 below. Net profit as a percentage of
average total assets has not surpassed the 0.8 percent achieved in 1984, but
has steadily improved from 0.5 percent in 1985/86 to 0.7 percent in 1989. The
Unit Desas havy significantly increased their contribution to BRI's income,
accounting for about one-third of earnings before taxes in 1988 and 1989
(para. 3.31 of the SAR text). BRI's spread on lending has also steadily
increased from 5.9 percent in 1984 to 8.2 percent in 1989.



-44                                     ANNEX 2
Page 9
Tnbl8 as ZDICATORS OF 9R1'S FIANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1984-89
1084      1986      1086       108?     1t88       1080
Averae. Total Asset. (Rp billion)    4,084.7   6,429.1   6,210.0   7,161.7   9,000.0  12,578.8
Avos  Loen Portfolio (Rp billion)  8,217.4   4,204.0   4,661.1   6,405.8   6,900.9   9,878.5
Averse. Borrowlngs (Ep billIon)     8,899.0   6,111.8   5,452.7   6,408.9   7,905.0  10,560.6
a X #of Aver. Assets
_  Incoi  fiiTlondltng               10.0        9.9      10.1      11.5       12.9      12.9
b Othr mnoes                          1.2        1.2       2.9       1.8        1.1       1.8
Groes Inco"                        11.2      11.2      18.1       12.7      14.0      14.0
Financial oxpense                   5.8       5.6       6.8        7.1       8.1       7.6
Gross spread (c-d)                  6.9       5.7       8.7        5.8       5.9       6.5
Slary a  personnel *xpense         2.6        2.6       2.4        2.8       2.1       1.9
Administrative *xpense              1.2       1.4       1.2        1.2       1.4       1.9
Provision for bad debit            0.7        0.8       2.8        1.2       1.8       1.9
Prolt before tax                    1.2       0.8       0.8        1.0       1.1       1.0
) Not profIt                         0.8        0.6       0.5       0.6        0.7       n/a
Landl119-ai
(k) IiinoIifrim lending as X
of Average Loan Portfolio          12.6      12.8      18.6       16.2      16.9      17.1
(1) Financial expenses as X
of Average Dorrowing                8 6       6.9       7.2        8.0       9.2       9.0
(m) Spread on Lending (h-§)            5.9       7.0        6.6       7.8        7.7       8.2
ProVIl1on for Dad Debts asX
Of Dutnetndine Loan Portfollo      2.7        2.8       8.2        8.1       8.5       8.8



-IDONESUA
S#COND BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Or,aniational Struoturo of BIW Headquarters (As of December 31, 1989)
*-                                           I
HH        H s F r H                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~- EUH
s1                    E s E E a -E.
F F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



-46-                                      _
INDOISSIA
M5300W allzmKUNDBS SMALL CUDST PROJECT
Bank Rekvat Indonesia
Audited Balance Sheets  1984-89 and Provilioga'.. 1909
As of December 31                    1984     1985      1986     1987      1988      1989
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash on hand                        97.9    155.1    194.4    217.7    213.9    251.6
Due from Bank Indonesia            399.6    442.5    321.2    665.5  1,047.8    974.5
Due from other banks                83.4     43.6    352.0    152.6    179.7    299.1
Notes                               29.0     53.4    170.8      42.2      45.2     83.8
Short-term loans                3,062.3  3,304.2  3,688.6  4,569.1  5,207.7  7.834.5
Less. Reserves for bad debts        77.7     87.9    107.2    141.4    199.3    325.8
Net Short-Term Loans             2.984.6  3.216.3  3.581.4  4A427.7  5.008.4  7.508.7
Assets in foreign currency         292.2    362.9    652.4    388.4    849.8  1.735.7
Other current assets               259.4    318.4    340.1    180.8    471.5    669.2
Total Current Assets            4.146.1  4,592.2  3,613.1  6,074.9  2.816.) 11.522.6
Long-Term Assets
Long-term loans                 1,002.0  1,041.1  1.088.3  1,464.6  2,560.3  3,144.4
Lesst Reserve for bad debts         33.7     34.4      43.9     48.5      69.2     88.7
Net Long-Term Loans                968.3  1,006.7  10944.4  1,41U6.1  2,491.1  3.055.7
Equity participation                 3.0      3.2       3.4      3.7       4.0      4.0
Total Long-Term Portfolio          971.3  1.009.9  1.047.8  1.419.8  2.4195.1  3.059.'
Net fixed assets                    64.7     74.0      81.9     85.8    108.0    144.7
Total Long-Term Assets           l.036.0  1,083.9  a.129.7  l.505.6  2,603.1  3.204.4
TOTAL ASSETS                    5.182.1  5,676.1  6.742;8  7,580.S 10.419.4 14.727.0
LIA81LITIES AND EqMITY
LCurrent Lailities
Demand deposits                 1.006.4    942.4  i.114.2  1,233.1  1,62016  2,882.0
Tims deposits                      364.7    667.6  1,131.6  1,599.5  2,023.4  2.489,9
Savings deposits                   188.5    265.5    418.7    538.5    739.3  X,P72.7
Accounts payable                   121.9    148.1    142.6    153.7    164.8    255.7
Liquldity credits from St        2,034.8  1,938.3  1,965.7  2,175.0  2,616.0  3,031.8
Due to other banks                  33.3     21.5    103.1      27.3    182.2    275.5
Poreign currency liabilities        39.3     80.6    131.1    164.1    573.5  1,504.6
Other currant lliabilities         206.8    557.8    294.1    215.1    261.6    281.8
Total Current 1.iabilities       3.995.7  4.621.8  5,301.3  6,106.3  0,181.4 11,694.0
Long-Term Liabilities
B1 liquidity credits               952.7    977.7    951.3    972.1  1,293.5  1,588.3
Loans from 81                       31.4     33.1      40.8     47.9      51.5      79.6
Government loasm                   106.1    104.3    183.9    156.6    312.5    544.6
Time deposits                       10.9     39.6    130.3    148.2    384.0    331.4
Total Long-Term Liabilities    1.101.1  1.155.0  1.306.3  1,32S.1  2.041.5  2.543.9
Paid-up and reserves                54.7     72.0      76.7    105.5    134.0    167.9
Retained earnings la                30.6     27.3      58.5     43.6      62.5    121.3
Total Esuity                        85.3     99.3    135.2    149.1    196.5    289.2
TOTAL L!A8ILITIES AND 30gJTY   5,182.1  5,676.1  6.742.8  7,580.5 10.419.4 14.727.1
!a  Each year. net profits are appropriated to various reserves and the Government;
i.e., retained earnings are not accumulated.



.   - 47            ~                  AN=EX 2
Attacbment 3
INDONESI
SECOND BRIIKUPEDES 8&  CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Audited Income Statements, 1984-88 and Provisional 1989
(R.p billion)
1984   1985   1986   1987    1988        1989
Income
Interest                                      381.7  507.0  600.0  780.1  1,109.2   1,528.1
Comissions and fees                            20.7   32.6   27.9   42.2       S5.5      76.'
Foreign exchange transactions                  21.0   37.8   38.4   26.4       26.5      63.5
Other operating income                         28.0   27.4   25.8   58.4       56.1      71.'
Profits from operations outside the above
Subtotal operating income                     451.4  604.8  809.9  907.1  1,247.3   1.740.:
Nonoperating income                             0.5    2.0    0.5    5.6       16.8      23.4
Total Income                                  451.9  606.8  810.4  912.7  1,264.1   1.764.t
Exgenses
interest charges on borrowings                212.5  299.2  39b.0  509.5    730.6       947.1
Salaries and other personnel expenses         112.0  143.2  149.1  161.2   !189.6       234.1
other operating and miscellaneous expenses   44.0   69.5   61.4   71.0    106.1         2144
Depreciation                                    5.4    6.0   11.3   12.9       17.6      22.t
Provision for bad debts                        29.2   43.1  145.1   87.4    119.1       222.;
Nonoperating expenses                           0.6    1.3    0.1    0.5        0.9       0.O
Total Expenses                                403.7  562.3  760.0  842.5  1.163.9   1.642.
Net income Before Taxes                        48.2   44.5   50.4   70.2    100.2       121.!
Less:  Provision for taxes                        17.6   17.2   19.1   24.1       38.8      ha
Net Income                                     30.6   27.3   31.3   46.1       61.4      na



-48-
-um=
.~ ~ ~~~~~~gJ                                                        * IMJIO  M9mn    C                             Id 1AI
Wortd Dank Ocul*AsLian |Develoummt Dnk Fwd to 33 1972-36
Lcon/Credit No./                        Year        Amont of                                          Outstando a of
Proj*ect Ttl-                          Appro1sad    Lean/grant                Purpose                 O ecombe  * SS8
C(USS mlillion)                                      (Rp billion)
The World Dank Gr-ou
IDA (International Dovolooment
Association
Cr.855-Rmp, Bee Cettl- Dvelipmst         1              8.10      To introduce moden raning tUchnol-              1,1
increase, beed/pattle Produc-
Cr.400-Z1D, Snnliholdor end Prtva t      1675           7.60      To robhbi I ltth and develop trn                2,817
Estae TSa Project                                                  iadutry In West Jave
Cr.480-NDO, Fisheries Credit Project   S14              6.60      To accelerate 8orre,rO  progts  to              2,241
lcreas  productlon fro  te fttshr-
lee resources for both domesticon-
-umtion end export to provide
Increasd employme     portunitico
and lneome
cr.827-MN, Rural Credit Projet           197            8 0.00    To epend end lmproe  suply of Ion              45,24
term credit to emllbolders In , 6-
Culture, livestock, fishri  
related eubsectors
Cr.9JS4-D, Smailhelder Rubbwr            10             16.O0      (a) To r,le  In... of eaioldor                7,049
Development Projet                                                      fatliso
(b) To lner_ee  tIdomnase tofoln
_exthow _ rninb tne rubber
(o) To  build l teonl fraeork
and date bte for the naiSOl
rubber pror
Subtotal IDA                                                                                                  BAN;
1330 tlnternatlonel Bank for
soo>n tuloa n    h  l_ 
Ln.1858-IER, *h. Urban Development                       S.76  "a.  To provid, basic servicoe aimed at           10,7
Project                                                           Improving the bealth and eavirooms 
e     I condition  of los-lncom  neigh-
borhoods
Ln.1S9#-IND, Smellbolder Coconut         1260           10.25     To provide cendit to wsellboldere for          lO,II?
Dev"lopment Project                                                nonferm coconut develoPMI
Ln.2702-SKD, toP I                       Ms6            17.20     To provide credit for fIaenoine                19,0s
expert-orlSeted Investments
Ln.2778-DO, FtPP                         1Y7             3.27     To provide credit for PT DalI for               1,48C
I  buildng suppoting station (cold
storage) In busmere
Ln.2800-DND, Kupedr Smell Crdtit                       101.30      (a) To support BR    efforts to              171,
develop tUh Unit Dea" t(ub-
branch) systMe
(b) To  aenurag 33l to lmprov  Its
resorces  obilisation efforts
(c) To reduce RI'o rellance on I
liquidity credits for the
KUPEIlES progra
Cd) To lmprov the overall Indtltu-
tierFl capablittis of IRI



-49-
Loan/Credit No./                         Year        Amount Of                                          Dutetetdii  as of
Project Tltle                          Apprnle      Loon/ rnt                  Purpose _eamber n, 198S
(USt million)                                         (Rp bilioln)
Ln.2979-VND, EPt 11998                                  80.00      To provide credit for fin nlaing                17,501
export-oriented investments
Ln.08 DI, IVP                            1939           26.00      To provide credit for finna:ci                       o
Indust rial rosrueUtrirg  Ioatnvf
In the textl l, engineering, pulp and
paper aectore
Ln.8041-M, SNIEP                         199            20.00      To provide credit for financing small                0
and medium Industrlal Inveetente
Subtotl I238                                        221 E4SU
Subtotal World Bank Group                           284.26                                                     $04
aDS (Asoin Deloamet Prolect)
Ln.444-IND  South Kalimantan             1979           15.00      To lncrease Oh  numbr of cattl-/                12,981
Livestock 6elomept Project                                         goea  In Soth Kalimantan Province;
to supply breding and draft animals
to transaigranta and emeiholdere
Ln.474-IND, Sumartr Fiherlo              1#O8             4.50     To assist the rural poor, In particu-            2,064
Development Project                                                 lar the arteanol fishermen  nd fleh
farmere
Ln.57-10,, Sumatra Livestock             1981            2.80       (a) To Improve the income end nutri-            1,626
Deelomesnut Project                                                      tional level of the poorer
people in the projeKct area
(b)  To prowmot herd expansion and
improve_nt
i.m6a6-IND  Second Irian J.ya            1982            0."7       To devwlop coae tl fishermen                        0
Fisheries 6      _lopnt Project
Ln.577-DID  Second Agricultural          1S82           20.55       (a)  To str ntrhen and expand the                 36
Credit Project                                                           operation of KW* to serve
farmer
(b) To promote participatlon of
rural poople In the alnstrem
of development, Increeing their
income 
(c)  To dletribute bneits ot' deel-
opment to a wider se_ment of the
rural population
Ln.B9S-ND, Brackiewater Aquniulture      1982            2.30       (a)  To Increas  productbon of shrimp               0
enveopment Project                                                       and *itkflih from brackieuemter
aquaculture
(b)  To Improve eooocot_mitc condi-
tion ef ema l-scal fatrmre by
lnocer ing their lcome"
(c) To  enerate foreign exchange
-arningp from shrimp e"port
Ln.697-10  Ebnt Java Agricultural        1988            2.70       To achieve two objectives, via.                  17
Credit Project                                                      increasing  ice and eubeidlery food
crop production nd developing BUUDs
and KU1Du
Lan.706-1ND, Seond KCllasntan            1984           61.80       To procure livestock                           15,284
Liveetock Devlopen"t Project
Ln.742-ND, FiUP                          1988           16.25       To provid, credit for ftishrles In             23,296
Indonesia
Subtotal AD3                     -                   122.47
Total World Bank OroumIADS                             406.73



-50                                ANN-   4
INDONESIA
SECOND 8RIIKUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia Unit Desa Policy Statement
(Adopted by BRI's Board of Managing Directors on June 8, 1990)
BRI regards the provision of a broad range of banking services as
essential to promote economic development. BRI's basic objective for the Unit
Desas is that they become true financial intermediaries that are able to meet
the needs of both rural and urban people for a wide variety of banking
services--not only credit, but also savings and other financial services--
while remaining financially viable, able to operate without government or any
other subsidy. BRI's management of the Unit Desas will be guided by the
following principles:
(a) Credit should be available to any creditworthy person or enterprise
throughout the country. This credit should not be targeted to
particular activities chosen by someone other than the loan
applicants. The final decision on loan applications should be made
by the bank based on sound banking considerations. Loans made by
Unit Desas for purposes other than directly productive activities
would not exceed 10 percent of the total KUPEDES portfolio.
(b) Interest rates on credit must be sufficient to cover all costs,
including the cost of unsubsidized funds operating costs and loan
losses, and also provide a profit margin in order that the BRI Unit
Desas will remain financially sound and be able to develop their
activities.
(c) To encourage savings mabilization, the BRI Unit Desas should offer a
broad range of savings instruments on which they pay positive real
rates of interest structured according to the ease of withdrawal
under each instrument.
(d) The BR! Unit Desas should introduce other banking services as these
are needed by their customers, but should calculate carefully whether
their costs in providing these services can be covered.
(e) BRI should provide Unit Desa services as close to the bank clients as
is financially feasible. This reduces the transaction costs to
borrowers and savers and thereby provides them with genuine access to
banking services.
(f) The BRI Unit Desas will abide by all relevant regulations of the
Government concerning environmental impact. In assessing the
creditworthiness of a borrower, the Unit Desa staff should consider
the environmental impact of his enterprise. Loans should not be
given to support enterprises which are destructive of the
environment, particularly those which release dangerous chemicals or
other polluting waste products to streams and rivers, or those which
migh* cause destruction of protected forests.



-51-                               AN 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia Uhit Desa Strategy Statement
(Adopted by BRI's Board of Managing Directors on June 8, 1990)
1.       The strategy of BRI In the operation of the Unit Desas focuses on the
provision of access to credit, savings, and other banking services at con-
venient locations in the villages, towns and cities throughout the country.
This access is valuable to the people only if it is long-term, not dependent
on uncertain budget allocations for loanable fundq or subsidies. The basic
requirement for expanding long term access is that the Unit Desa system as a
whole must remain financially viable. Each of the elements of expansion and
Improvement of access with financial viability is discussed below.
Credit
2.       At present the Unit Desas have a single credit instrument, XUPEDE8
(General Rural Credit), which is available for any creditworthy individual or
enterprise. RUPEDES is demand driven rather than targeted. The loan appli-
cant decides the use for which he needs credit, whether this is for investment
or for working capital. Very little effort has been made to urge people to
borrow, or even to advertise widely the availability of KUPEDES.
3.       BRI Unit Desas will continue to expand credlt as long as there is a
demand for credit from applicants who are considered creditworthy, loan repay-
ment remains satisfactory, and adequate staff to evaluate and supervise the
credit are recruited and trained. In the future, there will be somewhat more
emphasis on informing potential borrowers of the availability of KUPEDES and
the terms and conditions for borrowing.
4.       Special effort will be made to contact two types of entrepreneurs who
appear to have high potential as borrowerss
village-based suppliers and agents of entrepreneurs who are long-
term, reliable BRI Cabang (branch) customers; and
owners of small industries located in "industrial center, villages
where the Ministry of Industry has concentrated technical assistance,
who need investment credit to upgrade productivity and product
quality.
Punds Mobilization
5.       BRI Unit Desas now offer five types of savings instrumentst  GIRO
(demand deposits), DEPOSITO BERJANZA (time deposits), TABANAS (passbook sav-
ings) SIMPEDES (Village Savings Program), and SIMASXOT (Urban Savings
Program). The bulk of savings at the Unit Desas are in SIMPEDES which pro-
vides positive interest rates, unlimited withdrawals, and a semi-annual



- 52 -                 >           ANNEX 5
Page 2,
lottery. SIMASKOT is a never savings instrument similar to SIMPEDES which is
being offered in Unit Desas and Cabangs in cities and towns.
6.       At present, the Unit Desa system as a whole, though not all indivi-
dual Units Desas, has mobilized moze savings than is required for lending in
KUPEDES. Savings in excess of lending requirements in a particular Unit Desa
are kept with the supervising Cabang. In the rural Cabangs as a whole, sav-
ings are less than credit.
7.       For BRI, a large number of relatively small savings accounts provides
a stable source of loanable capital.  BRI Units will continue to offer liquid
savings instruments at convenient locations throughout the country for mobi-
lizing savings from households and small businesses.
Location
8.       The location of Unit Desas and Pos Pelayana Desas (PPDs--cash offices
operating under a Unit Desa and staffed by a two-person team for one to six
days a week) is under constant review by the PINCAs (heads of branches). They
have authority to open new PPDs or Unit Desas, to close a PPD, or to downgrade
a Unit Desa to a PPD. If a PINCA is convinced that it is financially feasible
to open a new PPD or Unit, he either reassigns staff or asks the Wilayah
(regional office) to recruit additional staff.
9.       Because of the origin of the Unit Desas as facilities for handling
BI3AS agricultural production credit, areas with large areas of irrigated rice
had fairly dense coverage with Unit Desas, whil, areas with very little irri-
gated rice were not covered at all. This distribution of facilities did not
fit well with the concept of Unit Desas which make KUPEDES loans for all types
of productive activity. During the period 1984 through 1986/87, staff and
facilities were reallocated to locations closer to the present clientele and
Unit Desas with low potential were closed or downgraded to PPD status. This
type of reallocation has essentially been completed.
10.      Prom 1987 to the present, BRI has been expanding Unit Desa and PPD
facilities. This expansion follows two different paths, depending on the
previous density of coverage of the area:
(a) In the rice growing areas where there was previously reasonably dense
coverage, a new PPD under an existing Unit Desa is established at a
location more convenient to a significant number of existing
borrowers and savers or in a location at which the PINCA believes
that there are a sufficient number of potential new borrowfrs or
savers. If the business activities of the PPD increase rapidly and
approach the size necessary to support a four-person Unit Desa staff,
the PPD is upgraded to a Unit Desa. As existing Unit Desas reach an
upper limit of 11 employees, including staff for PPDs, they are nor-
mally split into two Units to move closer to borrowers and savers, as
well as to speed up service by increasing the number of decision-
taking managers; and



-53-                               ANNEX S
Page 3
(b)  In areas where there were previously no Unit Desas, such as tree crop
areas or in towns and cities, PINCAs can establish new Unit Debas
directly vith the agreement of the PINWIL (head of the regional
office).
Thus the extension of Unit Desas in terms of total number of locations is an
ongoing process based on local conditions, analyzed by the PINCA and his
staff. The key problem in expansion is recruitment of adequate staff.
Recruitment
11.      From 1984 through 1986, as the Unit Desas retrenched, very few new
staff were recruited. By the end of 1986, the financial viability of the Unit
Desas was clear and the Unit Desa system began to expand. However, it has
proved difficult for the recruitment system to meet staff requirements for
this expansion. By the end of 1989, there were more vacancies in existing
Unit Desas than at the beginning of the year. No staff has been recruited for
the authorized 5 percent reserve at Cabang to fill temporary vacancies while
Unit Desa staff are sick, on leave, or in training.
12.      There are two parts to the problem.  First, recruitment in the past
has started only after a position has become vacant. This would possibly
produce a replacement in about one year. Second, the eligibility require-
ments, which were set when there was a surplus rather than a shortage of Unit
Desa staff, reject too high a percentage of applicants.
13.      For 1990, all PINCAs have estimated requirement of additional staff
based on the present number of vacancies, including those for the 5 percent
reserve, the estimated increase in business in present Unit Desas, plans for
new Unit Desas and PPDs, and an assumed rate of attrition. These estimates
will serve as the target for recruitment of Unit Desa staff by the Wilayah
during 1990. This system of estimation will be repeated at the beginning of
each year, and the budgets of the Cabangs and Unit Desas will be based on the
assumption that the recruitment targets will be reached.
14.      Some of the eligibility requirements have been revised so that a
larger percentage of the applicants will ultimately be recruited. For
instance, psychological tests will not be required for entry level jobs of
cashier and bookkeeper, but will be retained for promotion to management posi-
tions of Mantri (loan officer) and Kaudes (Unit Desa manager).
Training
15.      Five training centers for Unit Desa staff are in operation, with 780
people in training at any one time. Most of the classes and housing accommo-
dation is currently in rented space. The first phase of construction at each
of the centers will be completed during 1990 and will provide 14 classrooms
with corresponding dormitory and other facilities. A second phase of con-
structiQn, to provide an additioital 9 classrooms, 5 computer laboratories and
dormitory and other facilities, is planned for 1991.



- 54-                              ANNEX S
Page 4
16.      Over the next three years, all staff will have had an initial train-
ing course of four to seven weeks. Thereafter, new entrants and those
promoted to new jobs within the Unit Desa system will take the initial course
for their new job, and all staff will have refresher courses at least every
two years.
Incentives
17.      The success of the Unit Desas is dependent of the quality of judge-
ment of the staff and the diligence with which they perform their duties. To
encourage good performance, the level of salary and other compensation of Unit
Desa staff was equalized with that of the Cabang staff in June 1989. In addi-
tion, a special incentive system based on profits has been provided since the
first year of KUPEDES lending; 10 percent of a Unit Desa's profits are avail-
able to be paid as staff incentives (proportional to the basic employee
salary). Also, special contests are announced from time to time promoting the
mobilization of savings and other operational activities which the senior
management of BRI wishes to emphasize. Special awards are given to Unit Desas
that win these contests.
18.      As a general incentive to the Unit Desas to mobilize savings, BRI has
set the internal transfer price, the interest rate charge by the Cabangs for
liquidity provided to the Unit Desas, at a level higher than the rate paid for
savings. This practice will continue in the future.
Monitoring
19.      Monitoring and evaluation of Unit Desa performance is extremely
important in order to ensure smooth operation and achievement of objectives.
This monitoring and evaluation includest
(a) A management information system designed to provide contise, critical
information on lending, savings, arrears, profitability, numbers of
borrowers and savers, and other critical measures affecting the
operations of the BRI Unit Desas;
(b)  A first line of monitoring authority at the branch which is specifi-
cally charged in supervising the Unit Desas and correcting any pro-
blems found in their operations. In addition, the Cabangs have
officers who analyze the reports received from the Unit Desas, check
all records at the Unit Desas and spot check records and procedures
with clients;
(c)  A second line of monitoring authority at the regional office which
has the basic task of ensuring that the Cabangs have understood and
are carrying out their monitoring and supervision responsibilities
correctly; and
(d)  The highest level of monitoring authority at the Head Office, where
there is a special Urusan (department) charged with responsibility
for consolidating and analyzing reports on Unit Desa activities and
keeping the Board of Directors informed of the current situation.
This Urusan arranges special surveys when reports indicate problems



- 55                               ANNEX 5
Page 5
may have arisen which require further field study in order to be more
clearly understood and subsequently corrected.
Improvement in Efficiency
20.      BRI has tested changes in operating systems at the Unit Desas to
introduce a teller system and achieve a better balance of workload between the
teller and the deskman/bookkeeper, while strengthening the internal cross-
checking and security. These changes will be applied in all Unit Desas by
September 1990, and will be monitored carefully to see if a change in the
standards of cash transaction per employee is warranted.
21.      BRI is also paying attention to improving systems of handling receipt
of property tax, electricity, and telephone payments and of paying salaries
for military, teachers, and owners. A pilot project on tax payments with the
Directorate of Property Taxation has resulted in major changes in the tax
collection procedures. Similar changes in procedures are under negotiation
with the electricity company.
22.      BRI now uses a system of internal fees for each office which collects
or makes payments from outside agencies. Under this system, the Unit Desas
will continue to receive a fee from BRI adequate to cover the cost of provid-
ing the service.
23.      As investment funds become available, BRI will continue to purchase
and install micro-computers at the Unit Desas. The computers are useful both
in improving service to customers, improving accuracy, and speeding up the
work of bookkeeping. So far it is not clear whether use of the computers will
allow a change in the ratio of staff to average transactions and thus cut
operating costs.
Auditing and Supervision
24.      BRI will continue to improve the supervision and auditing of the Unit
Desas. The most important improvement in supervision will come with further
training of Cabang staff. First priority is training in analysis of the
reports which come from the Unit Desa and the actions which are indicated to
solve problems found in the analysis.
25.      At present, the audit of the Unit Desas by staff from the Inspector-
ate, outside the Cabang, occurs at longer intervals than is desirable. The
staff of the Inspectorate will be increased gradually over the next three
years as they can be recruited and trained.
Portfolio Standards
26.      BRI's management would implement such policies and procedures as are
conducive to the Unit Desas' maintaining a sound quality portfolio.  However,
when arrears of three months or more past final installment due date reach 6
percent of the total loan portfolio, this would be considered unsatisfactory
performance and BRI's management would then evaluate the overall program and
organization of the Unit Desas with a view to redesigning ongoing programs,
organization, and procedures to ensure the continued financial viability of
the Unit Desa system on an autonomous basis.



-56-                               ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
BR1 Unit Desa System
Sunmary of Actual KUPEDES Lending Operations, 1984-89
1984    1985     1986      1987       1988      1989
By Amount (in RD billion)
Outstanding at begin-
ning of period            -    111.0    229.3       334.2      429.2     538.7
Plus:  Disbursements     164.5   335.1      481.9     597.9      707.7   1,072.7
Less: Repayments           53.5   217.1     376.7     497.5      585.8     745.6
Lesss Write-offs             -       -         -        5.5       12.4      20.2
Outstanding at end of
period                 111.0   229.0      334.3     429.2      538.7   , 845,6
By Number (in '000 loans)
639.4  991.9   1,150.1   1,136.7   1,137.3   1,379.4



.          ~~- 57 -
-Em~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
mmas  QMNDts   A. CEDIT PRMmECT
SRI Unit   aS
As o Det caO r U                      1064      10t5      1086    l067      1t           1n
h   ln                                  171nt  0  m   2   1,621   4,100      7,647      18,26
cub to Cdgwq retneh)               47,6s    02,=8    9,na    "08,04    269,018    488,684
Lrwgur         a                   IId tt1,0s8   229,029  88,402 429,088   u58,20    64,618
Kredit sldl                       16,000    7,0s    4,791        45          -           -
lredit ala                       t10,410    7,76      S,04        14
Other                                 -    1,600    1,66    1,           1,127       1,101
Subtetal les  outstanding      )34    45,4n2  I40.$lE  4eao           i.@ 0        4 S6.7
Least Prowvllos for loe"_         9,16    10,524   20,'eS   21,80b  84,280         8,6S6
not Los". outataadio            JV       284.040   M. M- 40aflh    SCIN           907,11
MM .                                  OR20      620      01e   10          1,0        1,650
Exera                                so        99        as      Mt        stT         41S
Subtotel other receivables         679       M       1.014   1 as       Lt m
i24      666      480      8,68      14,02
vehIlels                                      408    2,500   1,70        1,6         2,62
achiner, forneture ed other                   110       141      106     4,209       S8o8
Subtotal #ixed   _s               l-j,                LI     2.208                 23 t90
O       _he assets                     G6       640       66U   1,248      2,475       6,010
MrAL ASSh                        18E    80.471  42s.960 j1J2 IO 78801 aE.14E
tXTXE8 AND E@qTY
ev.uawm..U                      2,00    18,680   10,080   12,468    16,66        26,08l
TAINAIS                       88,64    08,604   78,10   70,6         s0,62S    1U,62
Sra nm                              -      S,t    S2,es u12,68 8f41,054    6S0,011
Ti_- depsis                       60o    2,01       8,68   12,704    44,448    117.406
cortitimuateeofdepet               04       184        24       1          1       1,052
Other                             7w        168       1S8     165        8         - as
Subtow  sei                      40,ns2gZ1   1s04I   275,073   470lLI               an.$e
fwRfIM  S2k5881                   21,104    16,275   16,140   15,742    24,056      64,161
Working capitel                 61,06   126,17   10,707  100,27    102,0n        184,86
Subtotal lI.n,                           14f,454 l5.$47 12 3L0        129.784    1El9A
managd fnds                           -    1,60    1,88    1,6"          1t,227   -  1,0s
10,u"     U1,0f       80842
TA8A8S Interst                   8,e61    6,6u    12,884       0      26             "4
Tim deposit lntst                            2         8s2     12         0        1,184
Other                               -         -       721     5n       1,0         2,902
suktel      .a Lie                         Sg" utsdA7  ALE0    9433                AL4
Otheu liabilltl.                     -       2M        127      76         65       2,168
Total Liabililtl*es              MII      TAI*        .2L0  M"A5!    MASS  LIsO.Off
A".iigrat                            7,75    86,601    48.04o  489,414     2,685      57,877
Cotribtiose for fis  s             7,m      7,084    7,611   7,242       7,229       7,114
Retland earnings f              (25,01n     (090)   0,646   22,470    80,640       8s,s17
T    Slt Ey  53  'LE9   4fLo1e  7a.us                                  90.7211    EI.M
TOTAL U TI=ES AO 660 11?    #n7    800.471  427.200 ilj8i2    !E.M    1.M.2341
,'      neld eanl   ro pproprIated by 061 at the end    eah  r.
n  I1Sivie   1 eval ael...... li prvlesin  during 107 mec.t Critsoff of    ro1 estely
lbp 7,000 aIItoon for Erdits MItditll portfoi to.



-58                                             Tool
SFCOMD BRIiWES SWAIL aMEDT PRQOACr
BRI Unit 0em  Swae
lnee. S      t.  1984-89
Ibp UIII1003
Per the year ending December 81              1984    10S       108      1987   108        1t8
deposlted In Cebnn           -   7,089    8,840  11,675   18,316   41,445
RUPDDES - Inveateet                             1,973    8,034   4,004    5,184) 2
KUIPEES - Working capital                     59,458  108,411  150,439 108,048)
Kredit Vidi                           22,045     7t8       2S9       92        -        -
Kredit Mini                                      841       162       se
Other                                          1,102        98       sO        -        -
Subttl credit Interest                 22.045  63.627   11.085  19U.227 02. M.M
raw and commleiona                          1l       91        70       67       87       S1
IPTW terfelted                             n.c.    n.a.       n.a.   9,204   15,204   19,52
Cclletion of prwleou  write-off.            n.*.    n.a.      n.n.    n.*.    n.*.    5,U4
Other orating  nomm                        1,827     80i    5,45   1,188    2,645    1,983
11eoperating lncom                         8,052     407       2t2       59       84      219
Totel Rvenue.                          26.go,  72tes  120.932  177.078  229.018    8.0
Iri     _ I Expomm                        561  18,761   24,008   25,970  21,670   28,184
alro accosmtA                               11      82       170      120      171      28
TADMANS                                  8,548   5,508    10,377   20,212   j8 90    11,842
SVAMB                                                       NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,8  47,532
Tim  depoesits                              1      216       484   1,880    4,446    18,420
other                                      195      51        26      24   2,50S          -
Subtotal f cial exp n1ee                4.876   1.S708   35.108   4.994  1.          9b2
1V7  r ervee                              8,074   18,971    26,082  08,865  48,605   66,484
lnarane premlum                              18       86        44       72       1    2,249
Adainatrtlve           a l
omanae
salary and wage.                              26,170   26,661   80,928   38,165   44,769
Al lme.*ow.                           80,484   4,867    4,726    6,170   6,794    11,280
Payente In kind                                2,588     2,404   2,427   8,427    4,217
Subtotal pereonnel                     30.484  83.120   38.71   89.629  48.S88   eE2e
Reat                                       361     406       aS8      898      822    2,614
V hicl1"                             ) 1,710   1,605    1,276   1,257    1,6l    1,400
Bul Iding                               '        284       s        62   1,882    2t,06
Subtotal 0&8                            1.710   1.889    j.912   1.019   2.9          4.20B
Depreciatlen                               5569    52      1,019      081    1,894    8,S55
Provisions for bad debts                 8,1    2,361   12,027  16,715  26,669   24,465
TOAN                                       115     219       174      138      170       240
U m asupp e *nd a teral.l            021   1,038    1,884   1,909   2,61    8,766
Su   wu aso- 50    4,446   5,2    7,627   11,5165
Training 1                                 -       -         -        -        -    7,762
8E4a_.                                     -       -       677   1,061    1,370    1,662
Otmer                                   670      166         -      253      728    0,188
Subtotal other oeprating  xpnrea        1.691   1.26      6.457   LEI        . 12.S90   811.0e
Nnoneprting *xpena                            82      10        19       85        4       2S7
Total  _I                               5.601  78.501   117.986  155.804 iSo,S.       208.5ns
MrNE T                                t256.121    (n8    9.846  n2.479    0.         36.917
La  Ueglnang In 1980, *al unit D    training expene. are diretly axpe_ again  th  Unit be"
syat. tn previous yeres, It wa covered under BRI'* genral inatitutionl training.



IMMMIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-   _ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     M-
S-cDm IRItKlQWES SQALL aEIT PRWECT
- '                                                o  unit Sbe
Anaheim of KPDSLoan Portfolio. 1984489
z                                _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(p bl |lion)
1904             1905             i988              1987              1980             1989
:   loaned  _164.6                       409.0             M81.S           1,579.4            2,287.1          S,369.0
PortfoIW States
Totl loans outstand-
lng                    1107    -         2g9.0            aa4.4             429.0              580.8            046.
Total principal In
arrarS                   0.5              4.8              15.0              24.0               40.2             45.7              4
' 19 X ofAM                                      As X-of         is X of            A ofN 19
Aging of principal           utsanding       outstoaning       outstang         outstandng        outstnding       outStnding
arrare            ko    oortfollo   Mt.  oortfohlo         Do.  Itar,lt   "t.  norttolio 1 At.  Uortfollo  Amt. ,orttollo
Tota1  4              0.5       0.6      4.8     2.1    1l.0      4.5      24.0     5.7     40.2     7.5      45.7     6.4
Overdue to"s thAwA
8 months beyond
final due datn..                         0.9     0.4      1.9      0.0      4.6     1.0      7.0      1.4      7.6     0.9
beyond fialdue date   n.n.      n.n.     0.3     0.1      4.0     1.2       5.8     1.4      9.8     1.7      18.2     1.6
Any pymnt overdlue by one ds or more.'



l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                              W    6
Pm*lated 189    L,.dina  mrIen10-6
ProIecttl
Ptr   28th  Ptr?      U8rwIV  TA          t  @8.    it? ¶I8.In  Qtr IV                      q r  8.?@rU?  Prw IV .1
,9    1990   1990   199e   1990   1990   1991    1l9    1                   1991    1992    1992   lo2"    199    192
0ua.dlne *t bg;int.@
of pe.lrad           s8.7 848.6  018.8 1,018.4 1,02.?7   4.8 1,192.0 1,26.1 1,886.0 1,468.8  1,192.0 1,84.6  1,858.7 1,758.8 1,837.9 1,564.6
LI:  DtAbreowm8        1,02.1' 947.6  888.9  398.5  442.6 1,69.8   4n.7    0.1   810.7  86.8 2,0.8   89.9   68.8  $804:  691,0 2,868.1
Lm:-  "Payminu          -748.6 2n.6  278.90  80.2  888.9 1,190.9  86.9  89.5  428.6   48.6 1,648.6  486.8   16.9   540.1  876.2 2,128.5
3:  writ-Of.             20.2  8.0    8.1    8.0    8.1   82.2    1.7   11.7    11.8   11.9   47.1    18.8   18.8   15.8   18.8   52.0
Oudlnuo at e4 of
perod                 08.6 918.8 1,013.4 1,062.7 1,192.0 1,12.0 1,.          0 1,86.0 1,488.8 1,864.6 1,6.6 1,688.7 1,756.6 1,687.9 1.987.2 1,987.2
I 



-61-                                                       ,IA
Aabuat ~ ~     ~      (o  uls
&1M16  1/9981/90 11 1/1990il"   1V/1990  2/91  119111191IWlO   21 11/1992 Il/I Vlt   /"    Usnimwm  13/1I2g
Pan"
KorndiO Niel grmt              66.7~ 66.7    66.7    66.7    66.7   86.7    66.7    66.7   66.7   66.7    66.7    66.7   66.7
Mt.dit Midi                    48.0   43.0   43.0    43.0   43.0    48.0   43.0    43.0    4810   48.0   48.0    43.0   45.0
el S14iaid*  oredit          £80.0  122.4   115.9    110.6   101.?   94.0   67.0    811.0   74.1    67.2   60.8    63.4   40.4
gm to". gm-VD                 "1687   165i  M7  165.7   168.7 16         S.? 168.7 165 .? 168.7   18   .7 31.7 16.    1*6.7  16.7
Erne eash @6 ..pan,            8.7    50.7   80.7    80.7   80.7   80.7   60.7    60.7    47.3   47.8    48.9    43.0   40.8
*04O                         EL   mu  A"I  dOJ  SA"   MA  taMA  azL&  mL  Na   =A mum
786286                          118.7   96.4   98.0   101.5   312.0   106.0   104.6    111.7   137.5   116.6   135.0    am.,  I1s1.4
PWW/SDNWT                      694.7   72.4   76.9   804.2  04".#  666.6  990.9   977.8 1.M6.3  1.0,7.6 a.m*.#  1,18.1 1,18.8
afrto                            96.8    9.2      9.0    212.8   29.0   10.0    9.7    31.1    81.8    10.8   10.5    88.6    8.8.
ram, d.omsi9  a"d ebb.          149.3   186.0   W3.$   140.0   160.8   1860.1   16.4   170.6   176.4  M186.2  1493.8   126.9    M.4
1796                              80.1    35.6   80.1    21.8   113.8   95.7    17.7    29.3   81.0    882    88.2    85.6   W87
SUbip oes ,.w                      1.4    5.0    0.6    12.6         1.9    8.6     9.6    14.1    2.8       8.4    10.7    18.6    2.6
Erm.rve An, bad ".to               36.7    64.8   60.0    65.6   71.8   77.2   66.2    07.9   66.9   99.8   188.5   110.3  118.2
S9" mt poi9                        86.9   12.1   26.0    37.5    80.0    13.81   17.8    41.2   88.0    18.    80.2    46.4   60.8
u.emuIutim               ~~~~    ~~~~~8.6  1.0    2.0  3.0    4.0  1.2    2.4       8.6     4.8     1.5 -    .0      4.8    6.0
TA"l Sources                        LUL    LIA  LXJ 1.U     IUL                 74IZS   1 31.1761 01.18      11-  La"  LMJ
hm~~~til"a Ut 11ti*l,-Lhv0s_ A
RAVmIIII low  ctt.iI.5. 0                186  8.8 1,018.4  1.891.7 1.192.0 1,296.1  1,8661.0  1,46.8.  1.1144.6 i4.6111.7 1.7.80.   1,666.0 1.9672
mRnyt of Ere_it Offal and fit
uiuIldstl credit              217.61    8.9     6.9      6.9    6.9    6.9       6.9      6.9    6.9      6.9    6.9      8.9    6.9
317e6tlo    Enieba of  Jmprni,Of490  -    -       -        -       -       -       -        8.4     -       8.4     -       8.4     -
Vorbiag Omb                      18.7    19.2   20.1    21.5   21.0   28.2    24.2    25.8   27.5    27.8   29.0    W0.9   62.8
wwhiag ownt. £                   89.6    91.3   98.0    .107.   117.8  211.7   k2S.4   188.7   146.1   147.4  j80.6   -165.7   16.8
bam ncS..mi.rnmrnAs              19.1    19.2   98.1    S1.8    1 2.9   218.2   21.2    80.5    17.8   27.0   29.0    86.9   111.6
Tobal      ~I    EA                    131-2iSAIM    SAWA1 E I  121              ELI2.  1,75.8          1,0SA      M  
i Amulated diabu iwamt
and" proposed NW to"                                        Is. .?  U.2  .8 69      86.3   186.1   1861.4   164.6   196.0  119.6
12niasANA    A".1    MSA    a" a.o                      4si.                            Ana 4a.  13Mu1                            a".1    4.  il.    1.0
IIoleted   so oomt of the kib eot  ty lou di.bre.t ia bh amspur plus to il.u.t of 01rS depoCits. I peiwe  att U.SN   we 4          .4n-
of 6*1/862630? ernima deposits. WPM1280  disurmtm are general ly on" during the fir" pO.   of   4?. mot. *.St r.prsnmtra 4S.eo  V"i
Aorntas thu ImutNalf.I
Sb   on  rmme pool 4t8 m.t to be rnrntsimed bw m4. In rndtiom to eorin 4'4. is h* limt Oe.



ANNEX 7
nDONESIA
SECOND BSIIEDPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Capital Expenditure COmDOnent /a
*7'                                                (in Rp million)
BRI Unit Desa Training Center
-  v  Ujuag  Total Estimated
Padang     Bandung    Yogyakarta    Surabaya    Pandang          Cost
No. of Full Classrooms/
Io. of Computer Rooms              211         211         211           2J1          111         9g5
E2penditure Category
I.  Land                       -already available-no additional land required-       /b           n.a.
II.  Land preparation            100.0       100.0       100.0         350.0        100.0         750.0
III.  Buildings .                 936.8       933.9       828.1         921.2        440.1       4,060.1
IV.  Installation                328.4       328.4       328.4         328.4        328.4       1,642.0
V.  Other                       127.0       126.2       124.5         127.0        124.5         629.2
Total I-V                 1,492.2    1,488.5      1,381.0       1,726.6        993.0       7,081.3
Plus 201 Physical contingency
(Item II-V)                 298.4      297.8        276.2         345.3       198.6        1,416.3
Plus 6S Price contingency Lc
(Item II-IV)                 89.5       89.3         82.9         103.6        59.6          424.9
Total ExPansion Expenditures    1,880.1    1,875.6      1,740.1       2,175.5      1,251.2       8,922.5
Computers/Printers Id             114.6       114.6       114.6         114.6        114.6         573.0
Estimated Total Cost            1,994.7    1,990.2      1,854.7       2,290.1      1,365.8       9,495.5
La  Land preparation based on BRI actual expenses; remaining expenditures based on training facility
specifications as per the first phase construction (draings for the first phase construction also
provided for an expansion of training facilities as being proposed) while per unit cost estimates for
the various expenditures are as per Ministry of Public Works February 1990 data.
lb eing negotiated.
- Construction will be done in 1991.
dj Each center will have 30 PCs, 7 mibnual ledger card printers and 7 office printers.



-63-                               ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND BRIIRUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Long-Term Advisory Positions
1.       Technical assistance will be undertaken by a combination of advisory
services totaling 108 person months for three resident advisory posts. It is
preferred that this technical assistance be provided on a coordinated team
basis.
2.       Terms of reference for these advisory positions are as follows:
A. Senior Policy Advisor
Academic Qualifications: Minimuni of a master's degree in economics or other
relevant field.
Experiences A minimum of ten years experience in rural credit, banking, and
development of financial systems. Indoiesian experience and working level
proficiency in Bahasa Indonesia is required.
Responsibilities: The Senior Policy Advisor will have primary responsibility
for policy analysis and recommendations regarding Unit Desa and related rural
banking operations. The advisor will report to the President-Director of BRI,
providing general direction for the project and maintaining appropriate rela-
tions in the policy area with BRI staff and, as appropriate, with Indonesian
government entities, including Sank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance.
3.       The specific activities of the senior advisor will be developed
mutually by him/her and BRI management, in a manner that is responsive to
policy and program requirements that develop during the assignment. Illustra-
tive activities could include the followingt
- Develop new services and instruments for use in the Unit Desas
and related rural banking activities.
- Review the pricing and marketing of credit and savings instru-
ments and other financial services.
- Review and advise on organizational issues, including the
relationships between all levels of BRI - Headquarters, Regioa,
Branch, Uhit Desa, and Payment Point.
- Advise and-gssist in the revision and development of appropriate
financial and accounting policies and practices for improving
the viibility of the Unit Desas and related rural banking
activities, including those related to bad debt reserves,



-64-                               ANNEX 8
Page 2
chargeoffs, surveillance of loan quality, treatment of
substandard loans, and capital and funding adequacy.
- Review and revise personnel policies and practices, including:
procedures for ensuring adequate recruitment to fill Unit Desas
and related rural banking requirements; personnel salaries and
benefits; and incentive structures and appropriate promotion
paths.
B. Training Coordinator
Experiencet Minimum of five years experience in the development and operation
of training programs in financial inst1tutions, including responsibility for
organization, content and administration. Also, a minimum of five years
experience in rural banking and credit systems. Fluency in Bahasa Indonesia
and Indonesian experience are required.
Responsibilitiess Under the direction of the Senior Policy Advisor, this
person will develop and coordinate training for the Unit Desa and related
rural banking activities. He/she will work closely with BRI's Education and
Training Division.   Specific activities would include, but not be limited to:
- Review and revise training materials, manuals, curricula and
tests.
- Assist in the design of new training courses to meet emerging
needs.
- Monitor activities of the five regional training centers and
work closely with the training center staff on program develop-
ment snd administration.
- Advise and assist in the development of training budgets and
administrative procedures for coordinating and reviewing
training activities.
- Report to BRI management on the progress of Unit Desa and
related rural banking training programs.
C. Information and Survey Assistant
Qualifications:  Minimum equivalent of a master's degree in economics or other
relevant discipline with a strong background in quantitative analytical tech-
niques and computer skills-
Experiences No specific work experience requirements. Working level
proficiency in Bahasa Indonesia or commitment to achieve such proficiency
within six months is required.



- 65 -                -            ANNEX 8
Page 3
Rosgonsibilitiess This person will report to th'e Senior Policy Advisor and
vill be responsible for the development and productlon of regular and special
reports for BRI management. HRilher responsibilities will include assistance
in the following areass
- Develop and improve the management information system covering
BRI's rural banking activities.
- Help develop and refine BRI's data bases, and gather and analyze
data on ongoing lending, savings and other service programs.
- Participate in the design and execution of surveys and research
activities related to Unit Desa and rural banking activities.
- Work closely with the information and research sections vithin
the Division responsible for Unit Desa activities.



-66-                                      ANNEX9
INONESIA
SECOND BRIIKUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Disbursement                     Standard profile
Bank                          Capital                                   for Asia Region
PY    Semester   Credit   Expenditure   TA    Cumulative   Percent  for IDF projects
(percent)
l1991
:       7.2        -          -         7.2         5.8          -  I
-       25.0         -         0.1      32.3        25.8          6.0
I      26.9        1.3        0.2      60.7        48.6         18.0
II      30.9        1.4        0.4      93.4        74.7         34.0
1993
I      30.0        -          0.4     123.8        99.0         50.0
II       -          -          0.4     124.2        99.4         66.0
1994
I       -          -          0.4 /  124.6         99.7         78.0
--I      -          -          0.4     125.0       100.0         86.0
1995
I       _          _          -       125.0       100.0         94.0
II                  -                  125.0       100.0         99.0
1996
I                             -       125.0       100.0        100.0



INDONESIA
SECOND BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
Organbatonal Sbucture of SRI's Business Unt Dows  Deparmnt
CustomerAwM
PI dw                    NW |    C Dt          Auloman    A|  =tft
managL r-             Dwno Unt                 S     -pp  |      L   and MIR
Loan Seeonb                                   pitoe  ro ramin      Administration
Setoyn                                       sco
Adeti                  Tetg and                                                         --
_Sating Sectin        and Promotin            Ime a                  MIR Section
Sectin  ,Secton
| PdU                     Un:t                 Techcl
Secton   IW8alon
o'4



MMR 20514
tt >TNM.LAND 7                                                  1tbV '/ '                                                           1W1tt   '1 ,'Wf ~f =~_'>"'t'   --7  iPi  ib9 Z >tR25
. 13                                          ~' - =i-~' MALYSIAt  S out a China  Sea   .  BR3EI, I E
MA )LAYSIA 
(e  z  _;s  / < t>e_t F-_ - ''s v '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  0   ) =   N    E S .. ,
12j ,                                                                                                                                                                  a  K.4, 'X  i,  ;**--..  tNQ- NESdI;
~~'~~~12  .N~~~~~KŽ> ~~~MA~LAYSIA  /                                17'Ct0P~w1~dtI
19~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                          SALMATHERA  UTRA-'   61X- -<>x- -  ;eBn  e__   
14~~~~                                                         kALIATA     ANRA   AN '       -:     ..-          
16~ ~ ~~~~~~~~NAOE KAIATNEAA               t      &                            zW t7                                 O     |     -g                        FR       .        ,..         3
14B'1                                              21 Kj9                      s9
c SLWS9ELTN         '      1                                                                            ,~Y_t;r_   90  9  II g-'. '~..,
-                                1~~~~~~~~~~~5
1/TMRIU '  I >__w /
el~_=W_Ww_wB1                                                                                                                 - {<b,o      !R -  2|-,E.-
IA_A T    A. A.                                                                                                                                                                              IA ,JAYA
2      ,AWA BAAT   '8                             ' W'                                                                                         .'
2JAWATIMU                 0
L AMPUNG 
2  ENGKU U                                                                                                                                                                                        6I
9 UMATERAB!LATAN4
RIJAUB                                                                lava  Sea--                                                                                          R
BUMATERABOARAT                         -.Ba ~a  See- 
S UMATERA ITARA                               JAARA
~3D ACBI jN 
KALIMANTANTENGAH                                                                      .I
19  ALIMANTAN SELATAN                                JAqW
7KALIMANTANTIMUR                             ----~U
9  ULAWEBI TP".GAH                                  <-1-
9 GULAWESIUTARA.                                         BI-_
.0  ULAWESIBELATAN4
LII&AWESI TENGGARA                                                                     , L1 "0                                                                        10     RI
"I SUATENG9GARA BARAT                                                                                                                                                                  040 tood
l  22 NUBA TENGG4JAA TIMAUR                                                                                                                                                        BKB
MIALIJKU                  .. W           V      9     mKi
21I IIAN JAA                                                       -/EM1.Q                                                                                       -                                 SRO IOSB10   I   1
IMP  1W   IMP          11K                     1W            .         1W                      1 *                    1W~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   1 9



