Report No. PID7085
Project Name                     Chile-Second Municipal Development Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Project ID                       CLPA55480
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Borrower                         The Republic of Chile
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Interior and selected
municipalities
Date PID Prepared                November 30, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           June 22, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 22, 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background. With the return to democratic rule,
Chile's 341 municipalities have increasingly become increasingly more
important in Chile's consolidated public sector. While service provision was
greatly decentralized under the military government, beginning in 1990, the
newly elected democratic government began introducing the necessary
constitutional and legal reforms that would allow elections and increase
autonomy at the municipal level. Although the main priority of the democratic
government's reforms was the restoration of democracy at the local level,
another important objective was the enhancement of overall fiscal performance
in the subnational public sector. The Municipal Development Pilot Project
(MDPP) was developed in response to these priorities.
2.      The first project was successful in creating concrete reforms, spurring
the national government to expand the initial program. Given the need for
further reforms, as well as high municipal demand for MDPP's institutional
strengthening subprojects, the proposed project will extend the program to a
wider number and range of municipalities while continuing the policy dialogue
between the national and municipal governments.
3.      Objectives.   The project's main objective is to improve local governance
and efficiency in the provision of public services by strengthening the
capacity of: (i) the National Government to formulate, implement and monitor
decentralization policies and programs; and (ii) municipalities to assume
functions being decentralized, specifically financial and human resources
management, and provision of health and education services by the
municipality, as well as strengthen community planning.
4.      Description.   The project consists of key actions linked to the project
objective. The proposed project's National Institutional Strengthening
Component will continue to seek to increase the incentives for improved
municipal efficiency and fiscal performance. This national component will
include implementing recommendations made in the studies carried out under
this component in the MDPP, including the implementation of a national
information system on municipalities, as well as the implementation of a
national budget manual. At the same time, the project will provide a wide
menu of technical assistance subprojects to municipalities to enable them to



meet their increased responsibilities. Included in this menu are basic
subprojects to improve municipal strategic planning, budgeting, information
systems, and internal organization and human resource management, as well as
health and education service provision. Municipalities will be selected by a
Special Committee comprised of representatives of the Ministry of Interior,
the Budget Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Project Executing
Unit. The Committee will invite representatives from NGOs, regional
governments, and the Association of Chilean Municipalities from time to time
to participate in meetings on issues of relevance as the case may be.
5.      Financing.   The total project cost is US$23.0 million.   A Bank loan of
US$10 million, or 31- of total project costs, is being considered.
Counterpart funding would be required for those municipalities participating
in institutional strengthening subprojects.
6.      Implementation.   Implementation of the project would be the
responsibility of each participating municipality, and coordinated through a
Project Executing Unit within the Ministry of Interior's SUBDERE. This unit
would facilitate the work of the PEUs and act as a focal point for the
necessary interaction with the Bank.
7.      Sustainability.    The sustainability of the project   in terms of finances
(e.g., in order to pay for the operation and maintenance of new systems) has a
high probability and is by and large assured as the flow of funds to the
municipalities has increased dramatically. In addition, one of the key
features of the municipal strengthening subprojects are their replicability.
Through project dissemination activities such as the publishing of a bulletin
on municipal reforms and conferences, the Chilean government hopes to further
encourage municipal institution strengthening in non-participating
municipalities.
8.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.    The first
Municipal Development Pilot Project has been successful in contributing to the
fiscal performance of the participating municipalities in providing useful
operational experiences, in introducing Bank policies and procedures, and
identifying the main problems facing municipalities and designing core
subprojects aimed at improving these areas. The Bank's experience in the
sector and region has shown that by combining a few clearly-defined
eligibility criteria with a high level of subproject flexibility, projects can
effectively balance the need to guarantee the achievement of its reform
objectives while maximizing its attractiveness among potential sub-borrowers.
Municipal Development loans, when accompanied by Borrower ownership, are
effective instruments to improve management capacity and fiscal efficiency of
municipalities and to support the decentralization mandated under the
Constitution, through institutional strengthening, which in turn will
guarantee successful execution of other sectoral investments (education,
health, etc.), which are normally municipal responsibilities.
9.      Poverty Category.   Not applicable.
10.     Environmental Aspects.   The project will be used solely for institutional
development; no financing of any physical investments will take place under
the loan. Therefore, this project will have no impact on environmental
quality and is not of a nature to suggest significant negative environmental
impacts.
-2-



11.     Program Objective Categories. Economic Management.
12.Contact Point:                The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 27, 1998.
- 3 -



