Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18563-CH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.101 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FORA
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC]
November 18, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 27, 1998)
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Ch$1 = US$0.002
US$1 = Ch$465.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CODEP        Community Development Plan
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Agency
LCR          Latin America and Caribbean
MDPP         Municipal Development Pilot Project
MEU          Municipal Executing Unit
MISP         Municipal Institutional Strengthening Plans
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NMIS         National Municipal Information System
OED          Operation Evaluation Department
PEU          Project Executing Unit
RDI          Regionally Decided Investments
SOE          Statements of Expenditure
SMDP         Second Municipal Development Project
SUBDERE    Ministry of Interior's Subsecretariat of Regional Development and Administration
Subsecretaria de Desarrollo Regionaly Administrativo
TOR          Terms of Reference
Vice President:                                               Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director:                                     Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:                                      Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                                Miguel Mercado-Diaz



CHILE
Second Municipal Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Fimiag Dab
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................................1
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...................................1
B. Strategic Context                      .............    ....1
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project .........................................................1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................................                        I
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................4
C. Project Descripflon Summary                               .................................................................. ...6
1. Project components ...........................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................9
3. Benefits and target population ...........................................................9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .......................................................... 10
D. Project RoAe_   .13................ 13
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................ 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...... 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................................... 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................. 16
5. Value added of Bank support ........................................................                                       16
E. Summary Project Analyses ...................................................................                                                       16
1. Economic ...................................................................                                               16
2. Financial ...................................................................                                              16
3. Technical ...................................................................                                              17
4. Institutional ....................................................................                                         17
5. Social ....................................................................                                                17
6. Environmental assessment ....................................................................                              17
7. Participatory approach ....................................................................                                18
F. Sustalnability and Risl                                                             .................         ... 18
1. Sustainability ......................                                                                                      18
2. Critical risks ......................                                                                                       20
3. Possible controversial aspects ....................                                                                         21



G  Main Ioan Conditions ......................                                       ....... 21
1. Effectiveness conditions .....................                          21
2.  Oter .................                                                 21
H. Readiess for Implementation .................................                         21
L Compliance with Bank Policies .............................                            22
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .23
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description .28
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .37
Annex 4.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .38
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .39
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .40
Table C.   Consultant Selection Arrangements .40
Table D.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .41
Annex 5.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .42
Annex 6.  List of Documents in Project File .43
Annex 7.  Statement of Loans and Credits .44
Annex 8.  Country at a Glance .46



1NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Project Appraisal Document
Chile
Second Municipal Development Project
Date: November 19, 1998                       Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Miguel Mercado-Diaz
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander      Sector Manager/Director: Guillermo Perry
Project ID: 55480        Sector: Public Sector   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan  Program of Targeted Intervention:   f ]  Yes  [X]  No
Project Financing Data                 [X]  Loan      [      Credit  []  Guarantee    []    Other
[Specify]
For L.ensredItsthrs
Amount (USSm): S10.101 million
Proposed terms:                            [    Multicurrency       [X] Single currency, USS
Grace period (yes):        3 (Annuity)     [    Standard Variable    []  Fixed         [XI   LIBOR-
based
Years tomaturity           15
Commitment fee:            0.75%
Front end fee              1.0%
Financing plan (USSm):
Source                                                       Local            Foreign         Total
Government                                                     8.1              2.0           10.1
IBRD                                                           8.1              1.9           10.0
MuniipaUties                                                   3.0              0.0            3.0
Total                                                          19.2             3.8           23.1
Borrower: Govemment of Chile (Miniwsy of Finance)
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Intenor
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USSM)         1999        2000      2001    2002
Anual                                           1.9         2.8       3.5       1.9
Cumilative                                      1.9         4.7       8.2      10.1
Proec implementation period: 3 1/2 years Expected effectiveness date: 3/31/98  Expected closing date: 6/30/2002



Prject Appra Do                                                             Page: 1
Country: Cble                                   Project Title: Second Munidpal Development Projec
A: Project Development Objective
L Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project's main objective is to improve local governance and efficiency in the provision of
public services by strengthening the capacity of: (i) the National Government to formulate,
implement and monitor decentralization policies and programs; and (ii) municipalities in areas
such as municipal planning, financial and human resources management, and the management of
health and education services.
B: Strategic Context
1. Seedor-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex
(1):
CAS document number: 14370-CH   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 9, 1995
As noted in the most recent CAS, the Bank has a selective program of assistance to Chile,
responding to requests by the government, and focusing on areas in which the Bank's
international experience and offers a strong comparative advantage are required. One of these
areas is the decentralization and strengthening of subnational governments. The proposed
project supports the CAS objective of providing technical assistance to address new approaches
to institutional strengthening, especially for the decentralization of public sector functions to
subnational governments.
2. Main sector issus and Government strategy:
Background: Chile has four levels of government: central or national, regional, provincial, and
municipal. There are 13 regional governments, 51 provinces, and 341 municipalities. Provinces
lost most of their power with the creation of regional governments in 1974. The regional
governments are responsible for directing a significant portion of capital investment transfers,
called Regionally Decided Investments (RDI) from the national government to the
municipalities. RDI accounted for some US$658 million of national transfers in 1997
representing over 28% of total public investment. The majority of these transfers are agreed
upon with the national government via a system of negotiated agreements; then transferred to the
municipalities. Municipalities are becoming increasingly autonomous, responsible for a wide
range of services and with increased revenues due to changes in tax laws. As a result,,
subnational governments have increasingly become a much more important part of Chile's
consolidated public sector within the last two decades. Prior to the reinauguration of municipal
elections in 1991, the military government had progressively decentralized service delivery to
municipalities. The central government, however, appointed mayors and maintained strict
controls over municipal hiring practices. With the return to democracy in 1990, the Chilean
government began introducing the necessary constitutional and legal reforms that would allow
elections and increase autonomy at the municipal level. Besides the restoration of democracy at
the local level, an important objective of the government's reforms was the enhancement of
overall fiscal performance of the subnational public sector.
The government was particularly interested in enhancing municipal efficiency and maintaining
the fiscal balance of municipalities, as well as strengthening their role as providers of key social
services financed by the national government (e.g., primary health and education, water
subsidies, low-income family assistance). To help address these concerns, the government
requested Bank sector work on the subnational public sector.  The Chile: Subnational
Government Finance study (Report No. 10583, October 13, 1992) was the first outline of a sector



Promet Appriaai Doa_                                                         Page: 2
C.utuy: chue                                    Project Title: Second Municpal Development Project
strategy to support improvements in subnational government. Included were recommendations
for improving performance in the national! regional/ municipal transfer system; resolving
problems in financing education and health; increasing management efficiency and
accountability at the subnational level; clarifying the assignment of responsibilities; and
improving tax design.
Subsequently, the Chilean government requested the preparation of the Municipal Development
Pilot Project (or MDPP, Loan 3668-CH). Under MDPP, the Bank financed a series of studies to
address key policy issues and to implement some of the sector report's recommendations within
the municipalities. The project consisted of two parts: a Municipal Institutional Development
component; and a National Institutional Development component. The project sought to increase
the municipalities' institutional and technical capacities, enabling them to carry out the activities
under their legal responsibility, thereby increasing municipalities' capability to program, finance,
execute, operate, maintain, and monitor economically and financially sound expenditure
programs. MDPP also sought to improve the Borrower's capacity to accomplish its main
macroeconomic goals at the municipal level, through the design of incentives for increased
efficiency and fiscal discipline in the national/municipal resource transfer system. Largely
successful, the MDPP created strong demand for an expansion of the pilot to encourage
institution building and to continue to address some of the inefficiencies and inequalities among
municipalities throughout the country. The government has requested the proposed Second
Municipal Development Project (SMDP) as there is a continued need to strengthen institutional
capacity at the municipal level.
While the MDPP made significant contributions to subnational governments' policies and
covered substantial ground in terms of the subprojects implemented, the follow-on project will
take many of the ideas developed in the MDPP and implement them at the national and
municipal levels. At the same time, the project will replicate those subprojects that proved
beneficial to municipalities in terms of institutional strengthening. These subprojects sought to
introduce management changes and new management techniques to improve municipal
institutional performance, adding transparency and efficiency.  Those municipalities that
implemented the subprojects noted major improvements in internal operation, provision of
services, financial management practices, and human and technological resources. Moreover, the
subprojects have contributed to a more transparent organizational structure within the
participating municipalities, providing an improved definition of responsibilities and increase in
coordination across different areas. As such, these subprojects are designed to assist the
municipalities in developing the institutional capacity necessary to effectively assume their
responsibilities. As MDPP demonstrated, there are areas such as capital budgeting and reporting,
human resources planning, and management-oriented information systems that are especially
problematic in most Chilean municipalities.
Chilean municipalities are unique in that they do not suffer from the common problems plaguing
other Latin American countries. In fiscal terms, the Chilean municipalities are well off.
Municipal borrowing is prohibited by the Ley Orgdnica Municipal; as a result, no Chilean
municipality has ever gone bankrupt. The national budget allocates a significant amount of funds
to RDI, whereby each of Chile's 13 regions receives funds for municipal investments from
several sector ministries, including interior, public works, education and housing and urban
development. Overall municipal on- and off-budget revenues increased by US$1.4 billion during
1990-96 to US$2.4 billion in 1996. Municipal governments had US$1.3 billion of on-budget
expenditures in 1996 (up 145% from 1990) and about an equal amount of off-budget
expenditures, using current and capital transfers from these national resources. Total municipal



Project Apprisal Documen                                                       Page: 3
C.etmy: chat                                      Project Title: Second Muniipal Develpment Projed
own-source revenues rose by 141% to US$658.8 million over the period 1990-6 due to the
legislative changes in the municipal revenue law, administrative improvements, and economic
growth. Of these resources, municipalities used more of their own resources for investment
(23% of total own-source resources) than for personnel expenditures (20% of own source
resources) in 1996. Total municipal investment with own revenues increased by 157.5% during
the 1990-1996 period (see Table 3 in Annex 2.A).
Sector Issues. There are a number of disincentives and problems inherent in the fiscal relations
between various levels of government that impede municipalities from efficiently providing key
services. As noted in the 1992 sector report, a major problem is the capital transfer system.
The current system provides 100% financing to municipalities for approved capital investments
through transfers from  national sector ministries.  Municipalities produce capital project
proposals for financing from the national sectoral budgets and present them to many different
funds. The incentive, therefore, is on mayors to produce project proposals and present them to
many different funds; often the same project is presented to several different funds.
Municipalities complain of the high costs of lobbying for project approval and that the projects
approved are sometimes not their highest priorities. The inherent problems in the capital transfer
system have become even more pressing due to President Frei's decision to boost Regionally
Decided Investments from 22% of total national investment in 1996 to 42% in 2000. This
would require a total increase of US$871 million in these capital transfers to US$1.3 billion in
2000, representing an absolute change of 187% (see Table 4 in Annex 2.A).
The weakness in the capital transfer system is aggravated by the general weakness of the
municipal budgetary process, especially with regard to capital spending.  Off-budget
investment projects are excluded entirely, even though they can have significant impacts on
current expenditures in the budget. The planning and budgeting process in the municipalities
usually does not define strategic investment priorities. Moreover, municipalities receive capital
transfers whether or not they have the demonstrated capacity to maintain operating budgets for
the project. Studies have shown that this poses a serious threat to the sustainability of finished
projects.
There is also a lack of easily accessible information on municipalities. Although the
municipal public sector is increasingly important, gathering and analyzing data on it is currently
costly and time consuming. Moreover, performance indicators are not evaluated and published
on a periodic basis.
Need for improved human resource planning. Studies show that Chilean municipalities are
some of the most professionalized local governments in the region. However, they historically
have suffered from rigid human resource management policies. The recent reform of Article 110
of Chile's Constitution transfers responsibility for human resources planning from the national
government back to municipalities. As a result, municipalities need to enhance their technical
and institutional capabiLity in this area to improve human resource management to meet their
new responsibilities.
Provision of social services. In Chile, municipalities are primarily responsible for administering
a wide range of key social services, such as low-income family support, water and sanitation
subsidies, basic health and education, and disability payments. These services, in turn, are
financed by transfers from the national government. A study financed by MDPP showed that
there is room for reducing the total amount of time required at the municipal level for the general
public to gain access to these social programs. In addition, some municipalities complain that the



Projet Appraisl Docmn                                                          Page: 4
Cmadtrr cha                                      Project Title: Second Munipal Development Project
national per-student and per- patient transfers for municipal education and health services are not
sufficient to cover the municipalities' actual costs.
The SMDP falls within the government's policies to continue gradual and sustained progress in
the decentralization and modernization of the Chilean State. Key priorities in this effort include:
(a) developing innovative methodologies and strategies in local accountability, especially in the
development and implementation of management information systems and budget and asset
management; (b) contributing to a permanent system of training and technical assistance to the
municipalities, incorporating diverse institutional actors, including the regional governments; and
(c) strengthening and improving local management, especially in terms of finances, of human
resources and municipal services, harmonizing and equalizing local management capabilities
with respect to the legal and institutional reforms being pursued by the government (e.g.,
increased autonomy in human resource management, efficient municipal taxation, improvement
of municipal services, improved community participation, transparency, and accountability).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic chloices:
The MDPP was largely successful in attaining its objectives and, therefore, addressed many of
the key issues identified in the subnational government sector work. In so doing, the MDPP has
played an important role in helping participating municipalities assume their increased
responsibilities in a democratic system. The pilot was instrumental in creating a conceptual
framework for basic municipal capacity building which now can be applied at the municipal
level. The project's success has spurred many other municipalities to consider undertaking
similar reforms. Given the need for further reforms at the national level and high demand for the
reform-oriented subprojects of MDPP, the national government now wants to build on the pilot
project, extending it to a wider number and range of municipalities.
The proposed project seeks to strengthen the municipal public sector, in line with the national
government's strategy of decentralization and increased subnational government autonomy. The
proposed project's National Institutional Strengthening Component will continue to seek to
increase the incentives for improved municipal efficiency and fiscal performance. This national
component will include implementation of recommendations made in the studies carried out
under this component in the MDPP, as well as studies and action plans to carry forward the
policy work initiated in the MDPP. At the same time, the project will provide a wide menu of
technical assistance subprojects to municipalities to enable them to meet their increased
responsibilities. The main sector issues to be addressed by the project include: (a) enhancing
incentives for municipal public sector's efficiency and fiscal performance, specifically the capital
transfer system; (b) improving the municipal budgetary process; (c) providing easily accessible
information on municipalities for planning and monitoring purposes; (d) developing new tools
for improved human resource planning; and (e) streamlining provision of social services. Each
of these issues is discussed in detail below.
Enhancing incentives for municipal public sector's efficiency and fiscal performance.
The national component would finance policy studies that would analyze alternatives for
increasing the efficiency and equity of Chile's fiscal federal system with emphasis on improving
the capital transfer system, and also fine tuning some of the other social sector transfers. This
will enable municipalities, in coordination with the central government, to exercise more
autonomy in the areas of planning and finance to expand resources and improve efficiency in
service delivery within the present budget constraints. Incentives may be adopted to stimulate



Project Appubll Deumeat                                                     Page: 5
Cantry: Chile                                   Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
public-private alliances for social and infrastructure investment and poverty alleviation
programs, participatory plans for the identification of local and regional competitiveness,
participatory budgeting, demand-driven public expenditure, performance and impact indicators.
In order to prevent additional fiscal pressure, incentives-particularly monetary incentives-will
be combined with corresponding reductions in public spending.
Improving the Municipal Budgetary Process. The MDPP financed development of the
Budgeting Management Manual (Manual de Planificacion Presupuestaria Municipal, June
1996). The proposed project will update and improve this manual, as well as develop user-
friendly computer software based on the manual to help municipalities in improving their
budgetary process. The project will also provide for training to all municipalities on the budget
management manual. The SMDP will also finance an action plan for transforming the existing,
legally required Community Development Plan into an effective instrument for setting municipal
investment priorities.
Providing Easily Accessible Information on Municipalities for Planning and
Monitoring Purposes.  The MDPP financed preparation of the basic design of National
Municipal Information System (NMIS), including the definition of indicators, procedures for
data collection and processing, technical specifications for hardware and software, and
guidelines for disseminating the results and reports.  The proposed project will finance
implementation of the NMIS. Some municipalities initially questioned implementation of the
system, as they thought it might impinge on municipal autonomy. The ongoing dialogue with
national, regional, and municipal authorities with the general public will seek to resolve these
conflicts and continually keep the system relevant to the needs of all three levels of government.
Developing new tools for improved human resource planning. Recent changes to the
Ley Orgdnica Municipal and the Constitution have devolved responsibility for Human Resource
management to the municipal governments, something they are ill equipped for. Therefore, the
proposed project would assist municipalities in developing a municipal human resource action
plan. Included in this plan would be an appraisal of their current human resources capacity in
line with their strategic plans, and suggestions for organizational change. Job descriptions for
municipal personnel would also be created, administrative procedures streamlined, and a manual
for routine tasks would also be developed.
Streamlining Provision of Social Services. MDPP financed the development of a
methodology for reducing the time needed for applying for social assistance and for processing
the applications at the municipal level. It also recommended modifications to laws and
regulations that would reduce the processing time at the regional and national levels, and
proposed reorganization of responsibilities at the municipal, regional, and national levels. The
proposed SMDP would finance application of this methodology to a number of municipalities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page: 6
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project will continue to provide flexible and sound technical assistance to Chilean
municipalities, while continuing the national-municipal dialogue begun under MDPP. Like the
pilot project, this project comprises three components: a national institutional strengthening
component, a municipal institutional strengthening component, and project administration and
training. These components will continue much of the work begun in the pilot, while expanding
its scope and taking into account many of the suggestions and lessons learned from the pilot.
The national institutional strengthening component will consist of programs, studies, and
action plans for implementing the studies. The subprojects will implement many of the
recommendations made under the national studies carried out under MDPP. This includes, inter
alia: implementation of a National Municipal Information System; implementing a Municipal
Budgeting Improvement Program; streamlining public access to social programs; dissemination
of best practices and lessons learned under MDPP and other similar projects; and a project
monitoring and evaluation system. This component will continue the policy dialogue between
the national government and the municipalities begun under the pilot. The outreach program
launched by the PEU and the central government will play an important role in disseminating the
findings of the national studies, as well as the experiences of the municipalities in implementing
the project's various subprojects.
The main objective of this component is to provide the national government with the necessary
tools to enhance efficiency and equity at the municipal level. Toward that end, major milestones
for this component include the NMIS should be implemented in 70% of the 30 selected
municipalities by September 2000. A proposal for resource allocation based on efficiency
indicators from the NMIS and social equity criteria should be developed and presented to the
Presidency by March 2001. By the same date, 85% of all municipalities should receive training
on the budget manual. At the same time, the project will also provide technical assistance to 25
municipalities to decrease their processing time of social service applications by 25%. The
successes and best practices of MDPP as well as the SMDP will be disseminated through various
activities, including inter alia conferences and project bulletins.
The municipal strengthening component will be composed of a wide range of technical
assistance subprojects, under the following three modules: (a) a basic module, consisting of core
subprojects developed under MDPP; (b) a complementary module; and (c) a flexible module.
These modules are described below.
The Basic Module. The Basic Module is a group of subprojects considered essential to
strengthen internal workings of the municipalities. Twenty-five municipalities will be eligible to
participate in these subprojects, selected by the national government based on the criteria
outlined on the next page. As demonstrated in MDPP, this group of subprojects provides
municipalities with basic tools for municipal management and planning, including development
of a basic capacity in budgeting and human resource management, and systems that encourage
accountability and transparency in municipal management (such as auditing). The basic module
is composed of the following subprojects: (a) Community Development Plan (or CODEP); (b)
Municipal Strategic Plan; (c) Organizational Development and Human Resource Management;
and (d) Municipal Management Information System. Progress will be monitored by comparing



Project Appraisal Docuaet                                                    Page: 7
Country: Chie                                   Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
the selected municipalities against a baseline. A baseline will be taken for each municipality at
the time of signing of the participatory agreement and will be compared against data at the
project mid-term review and at closing.
The main objective of this component is the preparation of realistic CODEPs and strategic plans
by 70% of all participating municipalities, satisfactory to the Project Executing Unit and the
Bank by September 2000. In addition, 70% of all participating municipalities will be required to
identify needs to strengthen municipal human resources by the same date. The CODEPs,
strategic plans, and human resource action plans should be implemented by project completion,
December 2001. The project will also monitor improvements in own-source revenues as
compared to the baseline.
The Complementary Module. The Complementary Module offers the municipalities the
opportunity to implement a series of subprojects according to their needs. This module
complements the basic module by providing additional support in improving municipal services
to those municipalities that have either completed the subprojects of the basic module or have
addressed the same issues independently by providing technical support in the implementation of
priority subprojects identified in the municipal strategic plans. While the basic module's
objective is improvement of internal processes, the main objective of this module is to
complement the basic module by improving the municipality's provision of key services, and
thereby improving the municipality's relations with the community.  The subprojects in this
module will be developed, to the extent feasible, by high levels of community participation.
Some of the subprojects to be included in this module are: (a) Streamlining Business Procedures;
(b) Improving Customer Service; (c) Cadasters; (d) Social Development and Protection of
Vulnerable Groups; and (e) Development of Local Economies. Municipalities will be required
to provide at least 15% counterpart financing for each subproject.
The Flexible Module. The Flexible Module is composed of two different lines of subprojects:
innovative and municipal associations. The Flexible Module will be open to all municipalities
throughout the country, regardless of their completion of the basic and complementary modules.
The main objective of this module is to encourage innovation and joint municipal problem
solving for diagnoses and resolution of municipal management problems. The Innovative
Subprojects will consist of demand-driven technical assistance for municipalities.  Their
objective is to stimulate change at the municipal level by creating incentives for municipal
personnel to implement their own initiatives. The basic objective of the Association Subprojects
is to improve the capacities of a group of municipalities facing similar problems, while achieving
economies of scale in implementing improvements. Approximately six groups of municipalities
will be selected for these subprojects These subprojects will allow associations of municipalities
to seek solutions for common problems in areas such as: planning, human resource management,
training of public officials, provision of municipal services, economic development, and
procurement of goods and works.
Selection Criteria: (the Project Manual includes a chapter on the selection criteria for each
module). For the project's basic module, 25 out of the total number of 341 municipalities were
selected. Those municipalities which have already participated in the MDPP or have
independently addressed the issues related to this module are not eligible to participate in this
component. Signing of participatory agreements with at least 5 municipalities will be a condition
for loan effectiveness. The Chilean government has already ranked the 341 municipalities (see
Table 2.A in Annex 2 for a ranking of the first 50 municipalities considered for the basic
module) and has sent invitations to participate to 25 municipalities. The selection process will be



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page: 8
Couatry: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
finalized by December 1998. Based on available funding, other municipalities will be invited to
participate by the Special Committee after the initial implementation of the basic module in the
25 selected municipalities.
The municipalities were ranked based on a formnula which included the following variables: (i)
population; (ii) levels of own source revenues, based primarily on land area exempt from tax;
(iii) operational capacity, including financial autonomy and managerial capacity; (iv) quality of
services provided, especially those in education and health; and (v) municipal capacity to invest
in basic infrastructure. The objective of the selection formula was to identify municipalities
from all regions that have low own-source resource mobilization, high transfers from the national
government for health and education services provided by municipalities, and low per capita
investment, while demonstrating an explicit desire to improve municipal management.
Of these criteria, the most weight was given to population, as the municipalities with the highest
population also demonstrate the highest burden in providing services to its citizens. The weak
operational capacity of the municipality was also a strong factor in the ranking of municipalities,
as a municipality's financial capacity strongly effects its ability to provide services to its
constituents. Finally, lesser weight was given to the level of own-source revenue, quality of
services provided, and municipal ability to invest in basic infrastructure. Based on these initial
criteria, only those municipalities that demonstrate a commitment to the project through the
provision of counterpart funding, political will (e.g., agreements signed by mayors and approved
by municipal councils, demonstrated previous experience to reform), and the support of the
municipal officials will be selected. Based on available funding, other municipalities will be
invited to participate by the Special Committee after the initial implementation of the basic
module in the 25 selected municipalities.
For the project's complementary module, the main criteria for municipal subproject eligibility
are: that the municipality has already developed a CODEP and strategic plan which are no more
than two years old, and that the subproject to be financed must fall within the priorities of the
strategic plan. The subproject should not only be economically feasible, but the municipality
should have the financial resources to implement it. Municipal eligibility will be determined by
the PEU. Annex 2 presents a detailed description of this process.
For the project'sflexible module, a list of subproject guidelines will be sent to all municipalities.
Municipalities will then elaborate proposals for subprojects based on their needs. The innovative
and associative subprojects will not finance procurement of civil works or infrastructure under
the project. At a minimum, the innovative subprojects must include a creative approach to
municipal management, present a solution to a relevant municipal problem and be replicable.
The subproject proposals will be pre-evaluated by PEU. Up to 10 proposals, or proposals
totaling up to approximately US$400,000, will be selected by the Special Committee, with the
select participation of the Association of Chilean Municipalities. Municipal Associations will be
pre-selected by SUBDERE, with the cooperation of regional governments. Proposals for the
associative subprojects will also be presented to the Special Committee for determination of
financing. Approximately 6 groups of municipalities, with proposals totaling approximately
US$600,000 will be selected.
Project Administration  Component.   This component will finance  with  national
government/municipal own-resources the recurrent costs of project implementation at the
national level, including necessary training and technical assistance for the PEU. Training will
consist of seminars and other costs associated with the implementation of the seminars (e.g.,



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page: 9
Country: Chile                                       Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
publications, communication campaigns, dissemination activities). In addition, this component
will also finance monitoring and evaluation tools developed by the PEU that will be
implemented on the municipal level such as user surveys and self-assessments.
Component               Categorv        Cost Incl.     % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    Bank-
(US$'00!      _OO__  (         )   financing
National Institutional  Institution              1,775     7.7         800        7.9
Strengthening           Building; Policy
Municipal Strengthening   Institution           18,225    78.9       8,700      86.1
Building                           _
Project Administration  Project                 3,000     13.0         500        5.0
Management,
Institution
Building
Front-End Fee                                     101       .4         101        1.0
Total                  23,101     100       1 0,101 01   1 00
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The SMDP falls within the govermnent's policies to continue gradual and sustained progress in
the decentralization and modernization of the Chilean State. The municipal institutional
strengthening program would facilitate the development of adequate institutional responsibility
and aptitude necessary for municipalities to manage new resources and responsibilities as well as
assist the municipalities in adapting to new and relevant reforms introduced at the national level.
At the same time, the project will provide the national government with tools to more adequately
formulate, implement and monitor decentralization policies and programs.
Within the government's process of decentralization are the following priorities:
* allocation of government funds to municipal governments based on economic efficiency and
social equity criteria
*  improve internal municipal planning, organization and administration capacities
*  increase the financial autonomy of the municipalities.
*  develop internal municipal management capacities in the areas of organization and human
resources.
*  improve planning and administrative controls for services provided by the municipalities and
improve customer service.
*  foment realistic and participatory municipal management.
3. Benefits and target pop ulation:
Apart from the municipalities selected to participate in the municipal strengthening component,
all 341 municipalities will benefit--albeit indirectly--from the conclusions drawn from the



Project Appraisal Docuamet                                                 Page: 10
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
national studies, as well as the tools developed by the municipalities participating in the
municipal strengthening component. An outreach program launched by the PEU and central
government to disseminate the findings of the national studies, as well as the experiences of the
municipal subprojects will accomplish this.
The main benefits of the municipal institutional strengthening component are described by
subproject below.
The Basic Module. The expected benefits of the basic and complementary modules is the
improvement of municipal planning, administrative and financial management and organization,
as well as improved services and increased community participation in the municipalities directly
participating in the project. These subprojects will be targeted to: municipalities with a high
commitment to the program objectives, as well as those with larger populations, lower living
standards and less financial autonomy. The subprojects under the complementary module will be
developed with high levels of community input.
7The Flexible Module. The expected benefits of the innovative subprojects are the development of
creative solutions and new ideas to solve municipal management problems. These subprojects
are expected to develop expertise that is applicable to all municipalities. The target population is
all municipalities. The municipal association projects will provide groups of municipalities with
improved services; approximately 6 subprojects (six associations with an average of 4
municipalities each) will be financed. These subproject seek more efficient management of
problems common to a certain area or group of municipalities. For the most part, the groups of
municipalities selected will be predominantly rural. Vulnerable groups will also likely benefit
from the project's innovative and associative lines of municipal institutional strengthening
subprojects.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Borrower is the Republic of Chile, represented by the Ministry of Finance. SUBDERE will
implement the program. SUBDERE will coordinate the program on the national level and with
the municipal governments, and when necessary, the regional governments. The General
Controller of the Republic will be responsible for all project auditing requirements.
Special Committee. At the national level, a Special Committee will be created, made up of the
Subsecretary of SUBDERE, the Budget Director of the Ministry of Finance, the Chief of the
Municipal Division of SUBDERE, and the Project's Executive Coordinator. This committee will
be created by loan effectiveness, and will be responsible for determining and coordinating the
project's main policies, and will be responsible for overall supervision of the project. The
Conmmittee will invite representatives from NGOs, regional governments, and the Association of
Chilean Municipalities from time to time to participate in meetings on issues of relevance as the
case may be. The Special Committee would meet at least twice a year.
Project Executing Unit (PEU). The project would be executed by a PEU, satisfactory to the
Bank, in SUBDERE. This unit-already functioning under MDPP-would be linked directly to
the Municipal Division of SUBDERE. Linking the PEU to this division will assure sustainability
of the municipal institutional development subprojects, as this division is responsible for
improving the fiscal performance of municipal governments, among other things.
The PEU will have the following responsibilities: (a) to assist municipalities in the formulation
and implementation of the subprojects; (b) to review and approve the agreements with the



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page: 11
Country: Cbile                                     Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
municipalities, and specific municipal institutional development subprojects; (c) to implement
the national institutional strengthening program; (d) to monitor and evaluate all project elements
and the project's impact on the municipalities' performance and, if required, to formulate and
implement adjustments; (e) to monitor, evaluate and consolidate all pertinent project experiences
and recommendations; (f) to prepare periodic progress reports for the Government and the Bank;
(g) to procure goods and services for the national institutional strengthening program; (h) to
coordinate with the concerned government agencies, particularly the Ministry of Finance; (i) to
coordinate within SUBDERE concerning matters affecting the municipalities' management and
finances; (j) to identify and disseminate the most successful practices to all municipalities; (k) to
review and approve all procurement of goods and services as well as contracting of consultants
by the participating municipalities; and (I) on an exceptional basis, the PEU will procure goods
and consultants' services where a common approach is necessary for the implementation of the
subprojects of several participating municipalities, or if they may be carried out more efficiently
by the PEU.
The PEU will be comprised of approximately 22 staff members. The PEU will be headed by a
General Coordinator and an operations manager, to whom three groups will report:
(a) the Project Administration Group will be responsible for general administrative support,
office services, secretarial support, and the financial aspects of project components and
subprojects (e.g., record-keeping and financial control and reporting). The group will include,
among others, two accountants, two secretaries, an office clerk, procurement specialist, legal
specialist, a monitoring specialist, and a systems specialist;
(b)  a group of eight municipal institutional development coordinators will assist the
municipalities assigned to them to develop their CODEPs and to coordinate the various activities
of the project that flow from the plans. Assignment of municipalities will occur early on in the
project. It is anticipated that each coordinator will be assigned 3 to 4 of the 25 municipalities;
and
(c) two specialists will be responsible for supervising all aspects of the national studies and
programs.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation are particularly important to this
project. Specifically, monitoring and evaluation information is required to: (a) measure the
progress of the project, including progress on the indicators presented in Annex 1; (b)   assess
the impact of the project; and (c) establish a base of experience on the strengths and weaknesses
of project execution. This information will ensure that future expansion of the project
concentrates on items which have been shown to be the most beneficial to municipalities.
The indicators presented in Annex I will be used to measure project impact, including
effectiveness and quality measures; efficiency measures; and workload and demand measures.
Evaluation of the project execution process will require information on the progress of individual
project components (e.g., against planned time frames and cost estimates), on the progress being
achieved in the procurement and contracting of consulting services, on the number of training
programs run and the number and sources of attendees, and what "best practices" have been
identified and disseminated. These evaluations will be carried out on an ex-post basis. Ex-post
evaluations will also be performed by the flexible subprojects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page: 12
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
In addition, the project will measure development impact through the use of self-assessments and
user surveys, which will be designed by the PEU and implemented by municipalities. These
assessments will be financed under the project administration component. They will be
established at project launch (to establish a baseline), mid-term review and project closing.
The principal users of the evaluation results will be: (a) the mayors of the participating
municipalities; (b) the Project Executing Unit; (c) the Government of Chile (the Borrower),
including the Budget Director of the Ministry of the Interior; (d) SUBDERE; and (e) the Bank.
Reporting. Routine monitoring of the progress of project implementation requires the issuing of
a number of progress reports. These include: (i) half-yearly progress reports due in March and
October; (ii) a mid-term evaluation of the project which will take approximately one and a half
years after project effectiveness; (iii) an analysis of the results and impact of the Project; (iv) a
half-yearly Program Bulletin to disseminate the Program's progress and experience to
municipalities; and (v) an Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The first Bulletin is to be
published immediately after the project launch mission. The progress reports to be submitted to
the Bank will be based on the same information as the reports prepared by the PEU for its own
needs. Following the biannual reviews and in particular the mid-term evaluation, to be carried
out jointly by the Bank and the Government, any necessary changes in project implementation
would be introduced.
All reports would examine progress in implementing: (i) National Institutional Strengthening
component; (ii) Municipal Strengthening component; and (iii) project administration. The reports
should also examine the management of the PEU, including its administration and financial
management, the procurement and contracting of consulting services, the management and
coordination of training programs, the process of disseminating best practices which should also
include plans for dissemination, and municipal performance evaluations. In addition, the reports
would comment on compliance with all legal covenants.
Supervision. In addition to reporting requirements, the progress of project implementation
would be monitored through bi-annual missions to Chile, complemented by the half-yearly
progress reports and by periodic visits (at least once a year) to Washington by key officials from
the PEU. The first Bank supervision mission would be a project launch workshop.
Annual Institutional Reviews. In order to evaluate the impact of the project, the Borrower
would be required to conduct annual beneficiary user-surveys and Borrower's self-assessment.
These surveys and assessments will be part of annual March Progress Reports.
The Project Manual (PM). The PM provides guidelines to the municipalities on the project
objectives, operational procedures, and eligibility criteria for municipalities. It will also detail
the operational commitments necessary to implement all of the agreements between the national
government and the Bank. The PM would include a description of the necessary institutional
arrangements within the municipality and a draft participation agreement, as well as supervision,
and monitoring and evaluation procedures. The PM will describe the internal procedures of the
PEU, as well as the operation of the project. These descriptions will be geared toward the
municipal level (e.g., mayors and municipal officials, etc.) who actually participate in the project.
The PM would not be amended without prior Bank consent.
Project Financial Management. A LAC Region Financial Management Specialist visited the
PEU to assess the financial management arrangements under which the Project would be



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page: 13
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
implemented. The Financial Management Specialist provided guidance to Project Management
on the installation of an appropriate project physical and financial monitoring mechanism. A
feasible action plan was implemented by Project Management to ensure that prior to Loan
effectiveness, the necessary staff and a physical and financial monitoring mechanism acceptable
to the Bank are in place. The completion of the action plan warrants satisfactory project
management from its inception, thus satisfying OD 10.02 requirements. The PEU would be
responsible for project financial management, accounting, reporting, and ensuring external
auditing of all project related expenditures.  Annual audits would be performed by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and forwarded to the Bank within four months of the
end of each year. Annual audit reports would be completed by the Contraloria General de la
Repuiblica.
Audits. The audit report would include, inter alia, specific opinions on: (a) sources of proceeds
and their use; (b) SOEs; and (c) implementation of contracting clauses, and compliance with
procurement procedures and other financing conditions included in the project manual. The Special
Account would also be similarly audited.
Municipal Executing Units (MEUs). The participating municipalities will be responsible for
the creation of MEUs. It will be the responsibility of the MEUs to prepare and submit proposals
for financing. The MEU will function under the authority and coordination of the mayor to
ensure that all project activities are properly coordinated with the relevant municipal units and
agencies necessary for successful project implementation. The MEUs will be staffed with
municipal personnel, and when necessary , the loan will finance short-term consultants for
technical assistance. Therefore, the municipal staff will directly benefit from the experiences of
implementing subprojects, and at the same time, the MEUs would not be overburdened with
consultants that duplicate the functions and tasks of existing agencies. The MEU will directly
perform all planning, programming, supervision and reporting duties; the MEU will also be the
municipality's liaison with SUBDERE. Small technical groups of municipal personnel will also
be forned, depending on the subproject to be implemented. These groups will be responsible for
all technical aspects of the subprojects, and will act as counterparts to the consultants. They will
be set up by the date of signature of the participatory agreements.
D: Project Rationale
L Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A number of alternatives were considered for this project. First, the adoption of the same
framework established under the MDPP was considered for this follow-on project. The second
alternative was to allow the municipalities complete freedom of choice in the types of
subprojects to be implemented. The third alternative was to adopt a completely standardized and
centrally determined project structure. All of these options were rejected for the reasons outlined
below.
The first option considered for this project was to adopt the framework established for the
MDPP.  This option would have consisted of development of municipal institutional
strengthening plans (MISPs) followed by the implementation of subprojects described above.
Prior to developing MISPs, all municipalities were required to undergo a municipal diagnostic
assessment with the help of consulting firms. These assessments then generated the municipal
institutional strengthening plans, which were then submitted to SUBDERE, and then to the Bank
for approval. This phase proved to be excessively long in the pilot project-which in turn,
impacted negatively project execution and delayed the attainment of project objectives.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page: 14
Country: Chile                                     Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Therefore, this option was rejected. Nevertheless, the pilot created relevant diagnostic tools to
assess basic municipal needs.
Two other possible lines of action were discussed while designing the proposed project: One,
allowing the municipalities complete flexibility in the type and number of subprojects to be
executed; and two, a standardized program with centrally determined contents. Both were
rejected. The first option was abandoned because experience has shown that by allowing
municipalities freedom of choice in the selection of subprojects-without providing an
overarching institution-building framework or tools-the impact of the subprojects is
diminished. The adoption of a completely standardized and centrally determined project
structure, with no flexibility in subproject choice and pre-determined amounts of financing, was
also rejected. Under this alternative, standard subprojects and Terms of Reference (TOR) would
have been provided to the municipalities for implementation. This approach would have
diminished the incentives for the municipality to take a direct and proactive interest in project
implementation. Since municipal diversity is high and interests are varied, the option of
assigning predetermined amounts of financing for each subproject and/or municipalities/regions
would have reduced project ownership by the municipalities.
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector Issue                  Project                 Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed projects                                Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Decentralization              CHILE: Municipal         S               S
Development Pilot Project
(Ln. 3668-CH)
Decentralization and Basic    ARGENTINA: Second       HS               HS
Infrastructure                Municipal Development
Project (Ln. 3860-AR)
Decentralization and Water Supply  BRAZIL: Ceara Urban  S              S
Provision                     Development/Water
Resource Management
Project (Ln. 3789-BR)
Decentralization and Water Supply  BRAZIL: Minas Gerais    S           S
Provision                     Municipal Development
Project (Ln. 3639-BR)
Decentralization and Water Supply  BRAZIL: Bahia      S                S
Provision                     Municipal Management
Project (Ln. 4140-BR)
Decentralization and Financial  COLOMBIA: Municipal   S                S
Management                    Development Project (Ln.
3336-CO)
Decentralization and Basic    ECUADOR: Municipal    S                  S
Infrastructure                Development Project (Ln.
3285-EC)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Documnt                                                   Page: 15
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Many lessons learned from the MDPP are reflected in the design of the proposed project. The
most important of these include:
* Government commitment from the national and municipal levels is important for the success
of the project.
a Municipalities have to play an important role in the design of decentralization projects to
foster their sense of ownership and effective capacity building, even when the lack of
adequate technical capacity may post initial barriers to project implementation.
* Municipal commitment is a key element of project success. Therefore, municipalities should
compete for financing, participate in the development of subprojects and partially cofinance
them.
* Municipal personnel bring knowledge of the day-to-day operation of the municipalities and
are able to translate new concepts and ideas into procedures, ordinances that are likely to be
sustained in the long run.
* Flexibility in subproject design is necessary to compensate for municipal and regional
diversity, and municipal interests.
* The use of systematic learning is key to the success of the pilot experience, as it builds know-
how that can later be replicated on a full scale.
* Regular supervision from the Bank is also a key factor in successful project outcomes.
The proposed project will benefit from the many other lessons learned over the last two decades
of Bank's experience in municipal development, both in the LAC region and worldwide. Recent
reviews of municipal development loans in Argentina (Municipal Development Project, Loan
2920-AR) and Brazil (Municipal Development Project in the State of Parana, Loan 3100-BR
and Municipal Development Project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Loan 3129-BR) have
shown that:
*  By combining a few clearly-defined eligibility criteria with a high level of subproject
flexibility, projects can effectively balance the need to guarantee the achievement of its
reform objectives while maximizing its attractiveness among potential sub-borrowers.
*  Although the lack of adequate municipal technical and institutional capacity may result in
initial project bottlenecks, their enhanced responsibilities within the project contribute to
strong "hands-on" capacity building.
*  Excessive requirements for individual subprojects tend to overdimension preparation, unduly
increase the cost of borrowing, and promote the unnecessary use of private consultants,
which diminish the potential for "in house" capacity building.
Municipal Development loans, when accompanied by Borrower ownership, are effective
instruments to improve management capacity and fiscal efficiency of municipalities while
supporting decentralization through institutional strengthening.
Municipalities with more than 200,000 inhabitants require more detailed and individual
attention in institutional reform design and supervision; standardized models of intervention
often do not have the same impact on larger and institutionally more complex urban centers.
An earlier review of a number of municipal projects Bank-wide by OED noted that:
* successful approaches to institutional development should be documented and shared
through seminars and an easily accessible and regularly updated database.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page: 16
Country: Chile                                   Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
* periodic institutional assessments should be undertaken to develop an organizational memory
within the country, examining the functions, strengths, and weaknesses of, and linkages
among, relevant institutions, as well as their legal and regulatory frameworks and
performance incentives.
* multiple approaches to and instruments for the support of institutional development reforms
should be promoted.
* mechanisms for project review should be established to emphasize the importance of
sustainable lending.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Chile continues to be highly responsive to the increasing demands from
municipalities for assistance in municipal strengthening. This need has been recognized and
supported at the highest levels, and continues to be a priority of the current administration. In
addition, the Government of Chile made an official request to the Bank for a new loan to support
the government's program. The extension of relevant program outcomes to a group of other
municipalities in 1996 under the MDPP demonstrates governmental commitment to this project
and its recognition of increased and diversified needs among the municipalities.
S. Value added ofBank support:
The Bank will provide much needed technical assistance to the PEU and the municipalities. Due
to its experiences in countries around the world instituting similar reforms, the Bank can also
facilitate important cross-fertilization. The Bank project will help finance much-needed
technical assistance and expertise for municipalities that normally would not have access to such
assistance. In October 1997, the Bank co-sponsored a municipal development seminar in Chile.
Its objective was to foment interest in municipal issues throughout the country. The seminar
helped to disseminate the experiences of the MDPP to all Chilean municipalities; it also brought
a number of international experts to discuss issues and trends in municipal development world-
wide.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 6)
1. Economic:
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV-US$        million; ERR=    %  [ ] Cost Effectiveness
Analysis:
[X] Other: A traditional economic analysis is not feasible due to the nature of the SMDP.
While a cost-benefit analysis will not be performed for the whole project, cost-benefit analyses
of individual subprojects will be done, when appropriate.
2. Financial: NPV=US$            million; FRR=       %
The project will likely contribute to the further improvement of municipal finances, as a number
of subprojects will be aimed at improving municipal budgeting, and increasing efficiency in the
provision of services. The net present value and/or financial rate of return for these subprojects
will be performed on a subproject by subproject basis.
Fiscal impact: The project's fiscal impact will likely be negligible at the national level, but
could be substantial in those municipalities implementing fiscal related subprojects.



Project Appraisal Documcat                                                    Page: 17
Country: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound, as it inherits the components and the experience from its
predecessor project, the MDPP.  The fact that senior Bank specialists and high-quality
consultants were intensively involved in the pilot project and will continue to be associated with
the proposed project brings technical competence to the project.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: To date, the Ministry of Finance, SUBDERE, and other entities
involved have shown considerable commitment, and extended resources for planning and
implementing the project. Their experience with the MDPP has given them sufficient confidence
and skills to execute the proposed project in a more effective and efficient manner.
b. Project management: The PEU for the proposed project is the same as the one for the
MDPP and as a result, it is expected that there will be smooth continuity in project
implementation. PEU staff's management experience from the pilot project will benefit the
proposed project.
c. Project impleme,ntation: In terms of implementation, MDPP demonstrated that there are
some weaknesses in both the PEU and the Municipal Executing Units. Most municipalities still
lack technical capacity to develop and implement subprojects. The PEU also requires some
additional technical strengthening. MDPP clearly showed that municipalities and the PEU
directly benefited from the technical assistance financed under the project, and therefore this
technical assistance will be continued.
5. Social:
No social assessment was done as part of project preparation. However, it is expected that the
social impacts of this project will be positive, because municipal services are expected to
improve, community participation will be enhanced, and education and health resources will be
more efficiently allocated as evidenced in MDPP. Nevertheless, social issues such as community
participation and gender will likely be aspects of certain subprojects over the life of the project.
Any social strategy must consider the implementation and management capacity of the
municipalities, which varies greatly within Chile. Municipalities must deal with a range of
issues and at the same time need a great deal of technical support. Therefore, the project will not
overburden the municipalities with multiple issues, but will provide them with the needed
technical support. The project is expected to make a positive impact in a number of areas, such
as: local management, urban services, education (labor issues and curriculum development),
citizen education (educaci6n ciudadana), organizational development (leadership), public
welfare programs, and local participation. The project will carry out pilot diagnostic surveys
differentiated by gender to determine whether citizens needs, interests, demands, and incentives
for participating vary by gender. Under the flexible module, one of the possible subprojects is
oriented to vulnerable groups such as female-heads of households, indigenous populations, teen
mothers, children at risk, families with poor living conditions, and the elderly.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category     []A   [ B    [X] C



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page: 18
Country: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; af
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicablel:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
All Chilean Municipalities will benefit from the project. Participating municipalities in
particular will gain through their direct participation in the definition and development of
subprojects that they themselves generate.  Furthermore, they will also receive valuable
experience in implementing and executing their own subprojects. Municipalities may also
receive further technical assistance in the implementation of their subprojects from the PEU.
Additionally, all municipal subprojects will be subjected to a participatory approach, as
municipal personnel will participate in the definition of terms of reference, project execution,
proposals, approval of reports and outcomes. Community involvement--including citizens,
private and public actors--will play an important role in the selection of the municipal
subprojects as well as in planning and evaluation of municipal services.
Since some of the subprojects under the flexible module will likely deal with social programs,
certain vulnerable groups-such as women, indigenous, the poor--will also benefit from improved
targeting of social benefits, and improved services and programs.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The project, through SUBDERE, will coordinate the relevant ministries and agencies (e.g.,
health, education, housing, gender) necessary for successful project implementation. At the
regional level, contact for program outreach will be established with the regional governments, as
well as coordination for complementary resources, technical sectoral support and exchange of
experience.
F: Sustainability and Risks
. Sustainability:
In 1993, the MDPP was developed as a pilot project based on the recommendations made in the,
Bank sector work. The pilot only encompassed 25 municipalities since there was a risk that, the
decentralization efforts would not be properly implemented at the municipal level, and that they
would be jeopardized by the upcoming presidential elections. However, the new president not
only affirmed, but even championed these reforms. Moreover, despite the change in political
administration, the MDPP remains a central component of the government's reform strategy
insofar as it has contributed to institutional development and led to improvements in technical
capacity at the municipal level. The government has furthermore demonstrated its commitment
to the Program by taking the initiative to complete the execution of the subprojects that were not
completed prior to the closing date of the MDPP. This further shows the high probability that
the changes introduced will be sustainable over a period of time.
The MDPP also demonstrated that many of the changes introduced are sustainable over time.
Indeed, some even appear to be "irreversible" as they have altered the municipal culture. The
project introduced technology-such as fax machines, computers, internet connections-to a
number of municipalities. Additionally, administrative and management changes also took place,
insofar as many municipalities now speak of developing proposals and terms of reference as well
as rationalizing resources. Citizen participation has also become a key component of municipal
management in those municipalities that participated in MDPP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page: 19
Country: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
In addition, the sustainability of the project in terms of finances (e.g., in order to pay for the
operation and maintenance of new systems) has a high probability and is by and large assured as
the flow of funds to the municipalities has increased dramatically. Sustainability is more a
question of the institutional capacity of the municipalities to absorb and internalize the changes;
and their ability to sustain them over time, as elections take place and national and municipal
management changes. A recent survey of the municipalities participating in MDPP showed that
the project helped introduce significant improvements in the municipal culture in a majority of
the participating municipalities. These changes were not only indicated at the level of mayor, but
were adopted throughout the entire system, therefore adding to the sustainability of the project.
The present government's policy of decentralization, however, should be sustained as it has
historically had wide support among all parties.
2. Risks:
Despite the successes of MDPP, certain risks remain. First, many municipalities lack technical
capacity. Some municipalities lack the technical expertise to implement the type of subprojects,
while some municipal personnel with the technical knowledge are often unable to contribute to
subprojects because they are overburdened by administrative processes and tasks. To mitigate
this risk, the project will allow for the hiring of technical expertise where necessary. In addition,
municipalities will be required to present within their proposals a personnel plan that indicates
the municipal personnel assigned to subproject implementation. The plan must also designate
other personnel to take over the responsibilities of the personnel dedicated to subproject
implementation.
At the national level, although political will exists to introduce changes necessary for
decentralization, the process of implementing these reforms has been slow. In the case of human
resource reform, a Constitutional amendment was passed last year, but the implementing
legislation has yet to be passed. Delays of this nature pose modest risks to the project; as the
project's main objective is to prepare appropriate revisions to the legislature for later
implementation.
In addition, the experiences of the MDPP have shown that there still are deficiencies in the
technical ability of the project's executing unit (PEU). These deficiencies pose a threat to the
coordination and management functions required for the project's execution, particularly in the
area of technical expertise. To minimize this risk, the central government has allocated
significant staff resources to this unit, and has confirmed that it will provide all the funds,
facilities, staff and resources required by the PEU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in
an efficient and timely manner. Furthermore, the project could finance assistance to strengthen
the PEU's technical capacity.
There is also a risk that some municipalities would not be interested in implementing the types of
management improvements proposed by the project. The project seeks to reduce this risk by
choosing only those municipalities with a demonstrated interest in and potential for effective
implementation of reforms in order to participate in the program. In addition, the new project
will allow the PEU to drop any non-performing municipalities during project implementation,
thereby reducing the threat of delayed implementation due to municipalities which lose interest
in the reforms.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page: 20
Coantry: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development
objectives
Macroeconomic and political instability.    N        Chile is a politically stable country with
sound macroeconomic policies. It is also
expected that the future governments will
most likely be of the same coalition and
stress continuity with the successful
policies of the current government.
Lack of government's commitment to          N        The Chilean Government is firmly
decentralization and municipal                       committed to decentralization. The Bank
development.                                         is working with the Ministries of Interior
and Finance in the development of policies
and in the preparation of the project.
Lack of commitment from municipal           N        Only municipalities that have
authorities to improve governance at the             demonstrated a strong desire to be in the
local level.                                         Program will be considered.
Municipalities will have to sign a
participatory agreement as a condition for
financing.
Lack of national government's resolve in    S        The Chilean Government is strongly
improving economic efficiency and social             committed to improve efficiency and
equity aspects of the capital transfer               equity of capital transfers to subnational
system for local public services                     governments. In addition, the project will
look at possible alternatives to improve
these transfers. Further, preparing the
TOR for the studies and action plans for
improving the efficiency and equity of
Chile's fiscal federal system is a condition
of negotiations.
Project components to outputs
No timely inputs from different agencies    M        Project to be field supervised at least twice
involved (IBRD and government agencies)              a year or every six months including visits
to the municipalities. PEU staff to come
to Washington once a year to discuss
project execution. Also, progress
indicators will be monitored by the Bank.
No timely availability of counterpart funds  M       The Government has made this Program a
high priority one. Budget allocation for
counterpart funds have already been made
for 1998 and 1999. The counterpart funds
required by the municipalities is minimum.
Non-availability of adequate levels of      S        Each municipality to assign technical staff
technical capacity at the municipal level           to work on the project. Also, technical
assistance to the municipalities could be



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page: 21
Country: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Risk                   Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
financed with Loan funds.
Lack of political support from the          M        A Special Committee with be created with
different government agencies involved               members of key agencies involved.
Relevant partners will be invited to discuss
particular issues.
No adequate and timely response from        M        Each municipality to sign a letter of
participating municipalities                         intention. Plus the PEU to assign a
municipal coordinator to work with each
municipality. Each municipality to create
a municipal coordinating unit plus
technical assistance to the municipality
could be financed with Loan funds
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Since only a limited number of municipalities are included in the project, many non-participating
municipalities may protest their exclusion.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Negotiations Conditions: (a) a draft Project Manual, satisfactory to the Bank; (b) the
Government has issued invitations to participate in the project's basic module to the 25
municipalities selected on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank; (c) the Borrower has
prepared the project's standard bidding documents; (d) the Borrower has prepared Terms of
Reference acceptable to the Bank for the project's basic module; (e) the Borrower has prepared
Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank for the Study: Equity and Transparency of the
National Capital Transfer System; and (f) implementation of the action plan for the financial
management system.
2. Effectiveness Conditions: (a) the Project Manual has been approved by the Bank; (b) five
participatory agreements have been signed with participating municipalities; and (c) the Special
Committee has been established.
3. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.] Covenants: (a)
the Project Executing Unit will be maintained, satisfactory to the Bank; (b) half-yearly project
progress reports will be submitted to the Bank; (c) annual institutional reviews will be conducted,
using beneficiary user-surveys and borrower self-assessments, and submitted to the Bank as part
of the first quarter (March) Progress Report; Conditions of Disbursement for the Municipal
Strengthening Component: (a) a Municipal Executing Unit will be established in the respective
municipalities; and (b) municipalities participating in the project will enter into participatory
agreements, acceptable to the Bank.
HI Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation. [X] Not applicable.



Prjeci Apprail Document                                                         Page. 2 2
Conwuy: Chile                                      Project Title: Second Muaicipal Development Projec
[XJ The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
IX] The Projeot Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items ame lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policie9
[X This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
11   [The following exce tio_to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project
complie sre  apal Bank policies.]
Manager/ ircr. Guillermo  P           c:
CounitryMariager/Director; Myma Ale r 



Project Appraisa Doumet                                                    Page: 23
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Annex 1
Chile Second Municipal Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary     Key Performance       Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Indicators           Evaluation
Sector-related CAS                                               (Goal to Bank
Goal:                National Institutional   National and sectoral   Mission)
Institutional        Strengthening         development plans    Continued support
strengthening,       Component:                                 from the national
especially the       significant efficiency                     government for
decentralization of  improvements          Municipal financial    decentralization and
public sector functions. proposed to national   records, and planned    increased municipal
government's policies  and executed budgets;  autonomy
for allocating funds to  user surveys; self-
municipalities as a  assessments and ex-
result of program    post evaluation
recommendations.
Municipal
Strengthening
Component:           SUBDERE, Ministerio
significant          del Interior
improvement in
municipal service
provision and financial
and human resource
management         _
Project Development                                             (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Improve local        National Institutional   Progress Reports, Mid-  Macroeconomic and
governance and       Strengthening         Term Review and ICR   political stability at the
efficiency in the    Component: Develop                         national level
provision of key public  framework for
services by          allocating national
strengthening the    government funds to
capacity of: (i) the  municipalities based
National Government   on economic efficiency
to formulate,        and social equity
implement and monitor criteria
decentralization
policies and programs;  Municial           User surveys; self-   Continued municipal
and (ii) municipalities   Strengthening    assessments and ex-    support for the project
in areas such as     Component: At least   post evaluation
community planning,   80% of participating
financial and human    municipalities improve
resource management,  service provision and
and management of    financial and human
health and education    resource management
services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page: 24
Country: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Outputs:                                                           (Outputs to Objective)
A. At the National
level:
Al. Improved data on   Ala. Implementation    Progress Reports, Mid-  Macroeconomic and
municipal finances    of the NMIS in 70% of  Term Review and ICR   political stability.
(30) selected
municipalities by                           Government's
September 2000.                             commitment to
Progress Reports, Mid-  decentralization and
AIb. By March 2001,   Term Review and ICR   municipal
proposal developed to                       development.
extend the NMIS to all
municipalities                              Municipal authorities
Progress Reports, Mid-  commitment to
A2. implementation of  A2a. 85% of all      Term Review and ICR   improved governance
a uniform municipal    municipalities receive                      at local level.
budgeting system.     training on the budget
manual by March
2001.                                       National government's
resolve in improving
economic efficiency
and social equity
aspects of capital grant
program for local
public services.
A3. improvements in   A3. 25 % decrease in   Progress Reports, Mid-
the municipal         processing time for   Term Review and ICR
provision of social   social service
services.             applications in at least
25 municipalities.
A4. dissemination of   A4a. Periodic         Progress Reports, Mid-
best practices and    activities and        Term Review and ICR
lessons learned from  publications developed
the MDPP and other    and presented in
similar projects.     accordance with
dissemination plan
satisfactory to the
Bank.



Project Appraisal Documeat                                                    Page: 25
Country: Chie                                     Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
A5. By March 2001,   Progress Reports, Mid-
AS. Proposals for     proposal developed    Term Review and ICR
resource allocation   and presented to the
based on efficiency   Presidency.
indicators from the
NMIS and social
equity criteria.
B. At the municipal    Bla. By September
level:                2000, 70% of          Mid-Term Review and
B 1. Improvements in   participating        Progress Reports
municipal planning    municipalities to
present realistic
CODEPs and Strategic
Plans.
Blb. By project close
same municipalities to  ICR and Progress
have implemented      Reports
these plans, based on
available funding
1B2. Improvements in   B2a. increase in own-   Municipal Financial
financial management   source income in 70%    data reported
of participating
municipalities as
compared to baseline
B2b. increase in
operational surplus in
75% of the
participating
municipalities
B3. improvements in   B3a. By September    Progress Reports, Mid-
human resource        2000, 70% of          Term Review and ICR
management            participating
municipalities to have
identified requirements
to strengthen human
resources.
B3b. June2002,70%
of participating
municipalities have
implemented a human



Project Appraisat ouaent                                                   Page: 26
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
resource action plan in
accordance with the
program.
B4. improvements in   B4. Design for       Progress Reports, Mid-  Continued municipal
health and education    streamlining social  Term Review and ICR;  support for the project
management of service  services in 70% of  User surveys          objectives.
provision.           participating
municipalities prepared                    Implementation of
and project goals                          municipal strategic
established by                             plans
September 2000.
B4b. Streamlining
goals reached by June
2002.
B5. introduction of    B5. 85% of the      User surveys; self-
participatory        participating         assessments
dimension in municipal municipalities have
planning.            developed CODEPS
with public
consultation.
B6. Implementation of B6. By June 2002,    Progress Reports, Mid-
complementary        70% of municipalities   Term Review
subprojects as       participating in
identified in municipal  complementary module
strategic plans      completed subproject
implementation
B7. Subproject
B7. encouragement of  outcome for projects    Progress Reports, Mid-
innovation and joint-   under the flexible  Term Review and ICR;
municipal problem    component measured    User surveys
solving              by ex-post evaluations.
Project              Inputs: (budget for                         (Components to
Components/Sub-      each component)                             Outputs)
components: (see
Annex 2 for project                                              Timely inputs from
description)                                                     different agencies
involved (IBRD and
government agencies)
1. Studies and                 $1,775,000  Project implementation
technical assistance                       records and audit     Timely availability of
activities carried out                     reports               counterpart funds
and/or instruments



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page: 27
Country: Chile                                            Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
designed in respect to                                                        Availability of
the National                                                                  adequate levels of
Strengthening                                                                 technical capacity
Component
Political support from
the different
2. Municipal                         $18,225,000                              government agencies
institutional                                                               involved
strengthening
subprojects carried                                                         Adequate and timely
out in respect to                                                           response from
basic module,                                                               participating
complementary                                                               municipalities
module, and flexible
module
3. Project                            $3,000,000
Administration



Projetct Appraisal Document                                               Page. 28
Country: Chile                                 Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Annex 2
Chile Second Municipal Development Project
Project Description
The total cost of the municipal development program and of the project supporting it is estimated
at US$23 million. The Project Manual will establish the subproject eligibility criteria. The
project's main component are:
National Institutional Strenethenin! Component  (US$1.78 million)  This component
includes: the implementation of programs developed in the MDPP; performing policy studies in
key areas and the development of action plans for implementing them. The SMDP will
implement a number of activities that came out of recommendations made under the national
institutional strengthening component of the pilot project, including inter alia:  the
implementation of the National Municipal Information System (NMIS); National Budgeting
Improvement Program; Streamlining Access to Social Programs; Dissemination of Best Practices
and Lessons of Experience. Each of these activities/programs is described below.
T'he proposed project will finance implementation of the National Municipal Information
System (NMIS) (US$500,000) that was designed under the MDPP on a pilot basis in at least 30
municipalities. The objective of the NMIS is to provide a resource for up-to-date, reliable and
timely data to mayors, municipal personnel, the central and regional governments, as well as
citizens as a key indicator of change in municipal management. The NMIS will provide mayors
and municipal personnel a management tool to improve their decision-making ability, and their
assignment of human and financial resources. By the same token, the NMIS will allow the
central, municipal and regional governments to improve their knowledge of municipal
performance which will in turn improve efficiency and equity in allocating investments to
municipalities. Finally, the NMIS will benefit citizens by providing greater transparency in
municipal management. After the pilot phase, the NMIS will be extended to all municipalities as
a means to strengthen the decentralization process. The NMIS will also provide a basis for
development of a allocation methodology based on efficiency and equity criteria.
Municipal Budgeting Improvement Program (US$375,000)   The pilot project financed
development of the Budgeting Management Manual (Manual de Planificaci6n Presupuestaria
Municipal). However, this was not implemented under the MDPP. The proposed SMDP will
finance: (a) development of user friendly computer software to help municipalities prepare their
budgets; (b) enhancement of existing sections on investment capital planning and budgeting to
coincide with the efforts to turn the CODEP into a strategic instrument for determining
investment priorities; (c) training programs for officials at the regional and municipal levels on
use of the system; (d) system installation; and (e) establishment of permanent budget assistance
units at the regional government levels; and (f) the continual updating of this manual, to include
legal changes and procedural improvements;
Streamlining Access to Social Programs. (US$100,000) The proposed SMDP would finance
application of the methodology developed in the MDPP for reducing social assistance claim
processing time in various municipalities.
Dissemination of Best Practices and Lessons of Experience. (US$150,000) The proposed
project will emphasize the dissemination of best practice and lessons of experience derived from
all of the above components, continuing the policy dialogue between the national government
and the municipalities begun under the pilot. This program will be launched by the PEU and the



Froject Appraisal Documeat                                                  Page: 29
Crountry: Chile                                 Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
central government will play an important role in disseminating the findings of the national
studies, cases of decentralization from other countries, as well as the experiences of the
municipalities in implementing MDPP's various subprojects. National and regional seminars
will provide forums to discuss what worked and what didn't. Case studies of best practice will
be prepared and disseminated via a number of different media, including seminars, a
communications campaign,, and web pages. The plans for dissemination will be included in the
half-yearly progress reports.
Project monitoring and evaluation system. (US$150,000) The pilot project financed design of
this system, which will be adapted and implemented in the SMDP.
Studies and Action plans for enhancing the municipal public sector's efficiency and fiscal
performance (US$500,000) Under this component, policy studies would be carried out to
analyze alternatives for increasing the efficiency and equity of Chile's fiscal federal system, and
develop concrete action plans for their implementation. Preliminary and final results of these
studies would be discussed at national and regional forums with the participation of national and
international experts. The component would also finance action plans to implement the legal
changes and policy decisions adopted. It would be expected that implementation of the action
plans would begin during implementation of the proposed project. Among the areas to be
covered would be:
e Development of typologies of municipalities with different types of financial problems (e.g.,
national per student subsidies do not cover fuill municipal education expenditures; national
health subsides do not cover municipal health expenditures).
Development of modifications to national/municipal capital transfer system based, covering
such areas as: assigning part of the national transfers to the regions based on efficiency and
fiscal performance indicators from NMIS, and use of matching grants for capital transfers.
Enhancement of planning and management of public services in metropolitan regions,
including the assignment of responsibilities and design of institutions for service delivery.
Development of an action plan for transforning the legally required CODEP into a strategic
instrument for establishing investment priorities with increased community participation.
Ideally, the revised CODEP could generate a multiyear capital budget, and also serve as a
means for communicating these priorities to the regional governments. Lessons from
successful budgeting improvement efforts under the MDPP (e.g., Calama, and San Antonio)
would be incorporated.
I Development of alternatives for improving municipal human resource management to allow
municipalities to meet their increased responsibilities in this area due to the recent reform of
Article 110 of Chile's Constitution.
0 Cost-effectiveness comparisons among alternative ways of service delivery at the local level
(privatization, decentralization combined with private sector or community participation,
direct local government service provision enhanced by new public management tools.
e Experimentation, adjustment and replication of inter-governmental coordination from the
bottom up, starting with participatory strategic development plans and competitiveness
strategies at sub-regional and regional levels.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Plage 30
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development PrqJect
Project Component 2 - Municipal Strengthening. US$18.23 million (total cost of component)
Municipal Strengthening component will have the most direct, overall impact on municipalities,
and therefore, is the project's largest component. It consists of a basic module, a complementary
module, and a flexible module. The maximum amount to be financed for municipalities
participating in the project's basic and complementary modules is US$750,000 million per
municipality, for an amount up to US$17.23 million. The additional US$1 million will finance
the subprojects under the flexible module.
The basic module is composed of municipal institutional development subprojects. The primary
objective of these subprojects is to improve internal municipal management by improving overall
processes as well as the municipalities' professional capacities in administration, budget, and
service provision via technology transfers and training. These subprojects include: a community
development plan; a municipal strategic plan (including both health and education services
provided by the municipality); organizational development; and municipal management
information systems. Twenty-five municipalities were selected for the municipal institutional
development subprojects; a listing of the ranking of the top 50 municipalities is presented in
Table I of Annex 2A. Each municipality will be required to provide at least 15% of the total
subproject cost as counterpart funding. The selection of municipalities for this component will
take place by November 1998. The selection criteria for this module is described below.
The complementary module complements the basic module, and can be tailored according to the
municipality's interests and needs. While the basic module's key objective is internal processes
and improvements, the complementary module's main focus is on improving the municipality's
relationship with the community, and more specifically improving the municipality's
management of key services by providing technical support to municipalities in implementing
priority subprojects identified in the municipal strategic plans. This module is demand-driven
and each project will be developed using community participation. The number and length of
subprojects under this module will vary according to the size of the municipality, as well as the
completion of (or resolution of issues from) the subprojects included in the basic module.
Examples of subprojects include: evaluation and improvement of municipal services to the
public; improvement in the management of the municipal health and educational sectors; local
economical development; improving municipal tax registers through the implementation of
cadasters; and social development and protection of vulnerable groups. Municipalities will be
required to provide at least 15% counterpart for subprojects.
The flexible module will finance newer and more innovative subprojects to address specific
municipal problems including, inter alia, service provision and planning. It consists of innovative
subprojects and municipal association subprojects. These subprojects have the basic objective of
encouraging innovation and joint municipal problem solving for diagnoses and resolution of
municipal management problems. Municipalities will not be required to participate in the Basic
or Complementary Modules to access these funds. These subprojects are described in detail
below.
Innovative Subprojects will consist of demand-driven technical assistance for municipalities.
Their objective is to stimulate change at the municipal level by creating incentives for municipal
personnel to implement their own initiatives. The main selection criteria will be the compatibility
of the municipality's proposal with the overall objectives of the program, as well as its ease in
implementation and replicability. Consideration will also be given to innovative management
styles and procedures that can be implemented at the municipal level. When necessary, the



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page: 31
Counhy: Chile                                   Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Project Executing Unit (PEU) will also help finance technical assistance for subproject design
completion. Approximately 10 municipalities will be chosen for this component for an estimated
amount of US$400,000. No counterpart funding will be required from the municipalities
selected.
Municipal Association Subprojects were developed in response to a strong demand by
municipalities and regional governments for solutions to common problems. Under these
subprojects, approximately six groups of municipalities will be selected.  The municipal
association will be expected to finance at least 15% of each of these subprojects; the total
amount to be financed for these subprojects is approximately US$600,000, with an estimated six
groups of municipalities participating. The basic objective of these subprojects is to improve the
capacities of municipalities facing similar problems, while achieving economies of scale in
searching for solutions. These subprojects will allow associations of municipalities to seek
solutions for common problems in areas such as: human resources, training of public officials,
municipal services, economic development, and procurement of goods and works.
General Subproject Selection Criteria: For the project's basic module, 25 out of the total
number of 341 municipalities were selected. Those municipalities which have already
participated in the MDPP or have independently addressed the issues related to this module were
considered ineligible for this component.
T'he objective of the selection formula was to identify municipalities from all regions that have
low own-source resource mobilization, high transfers from the national government, and low per
capita investment, while demonstrating an explicit desire to improve municipal management.
The ranking was based on a transparent formula which included:
(i) population, as the number of inhabitants of a municipality effects municipal management.
This criteria was given a weight of 50% in the ranking formula, as municipal management
improvements have an exponential impact on municipalities with large populations.
(ii) levels of own source revenues, based primarily on land area exempt from tax. As own-source
revenues are primarily derived from real estate taxes, there is a high correlation between low
levels of own-source revenues and high levels of poverty. Therefore, this indicator was given a
weight of 10% in the ranking formnula because living standards will likely be improved in those
municipalities participating in the program.
(iii) operational capacity, including financial autonomy and managerial capacity. This indicator
was given a weight of 20%, taking into account municipal operational balances. Municipalities
with operational deficits will be ranked higher according to this formnula, as preference is given
to municipalities with a low financial capacity to adequate respond to their constituents.
(iv) quality of services provided, especially those in education and health. As improvements in
the provision of health and education services are key aspects of the SMDP, this indicator
received a 10% weight. Quality will be measured in the transfers received from the Ministry of
Education and Health as compared to total municipal income.
(v) municipal ability to invest in basic infrastructure. This indicator was given a weight of 10%.
Municipalities that are unable to satisfy community needs for basic infrastructure were identified
by identifying the per capita investment in infrastructure for each municipality.



Project Appraisal Docautent                                                 Page: 32
Country: Chie                                   Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Based on these initial criteria, only those municipalities that demonstrate a commitment to the
project through the provision of counterpart funding, political will (e.g., signed agreements with
municipal councils, demonstrated previous experience to reforn), and the support of the
municipal officials will be selected.
For the project's complementary module, the main criteria for municipal subproject eligibility
are: that the municipality has already developed a CODEP and strategic plan which are no more
than two years old. The subproject to be financed must fall within the priorities of the strategic
plan. In addition, the municipality should be actively monitoring implementation of the
subprojects under the module. The municipality must demonstrate the subproject's economic
feasibility, as well as the financial resources to implement it. Municipal eligibility will be
determined by the UEP.
For the project's flexible module, a list of subproject guidelines will be sent to all municipalities.
Municipalities will then elaborate proposals for subprojects based on their needs. The innovative
subprojects will not finance procurement of goods, infrastructure, or studies. Proposals will then
be presented to the Special Committee for consideration. At a minimum, the innovative
subprojects must include an innovative approach to municipal management, present a solution to
a relevant municipal problem and be replicable. The proposals can be developed by anyone
working for the municipal government, however, for consideration for financing, the proposal
must carry the approval of the mayor. No counterpart financing is required for these subprojects.
The innovative subproject proposals will be pre-evaluated by PEU. Up to 10 proposals, or
proposals totaling up to US$500,000, will be selected by the Special Committee, with the select
participation of the Association of Chilean Municipalities.
Municipal Associations will be preselected by SUBDERE, with the cooperation of regional
governments. Proposals for the associative subprojects will then be presented to the Special
Committee for consideration for financing.  The association must provide at least 15%
counterpart funding for these subprojects.
Project Component 3 - Project Administration. US$3.0 million (total cost of component)
This component will finance with government resources the recurrent costs of project
implementation at the national level, including necessary training and technical assistance for the
PEU. Training will consist of seminars and other costs associated with the implementation of the
seminars (e.g., publications, communication campaigns, dissemination activities). In addition,
this component will also finance monitoring and evaluation tools developed by the PEU that will
be implemented by municipalities, such as user surveys and self-assessments.



PmjectAppraisal Document                                                      Page: 33
Country: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Table 2.A
The First 50 Municipalities Ranked for the Basic Module
Of the Municipal Institutional Strengthening Component'
Region  Municipality         Region   Municipality
I    Arica                9         Temuco
1    Iquique              9         Angol
2    Antofagasta          9         Pucon
2    Maria Elena          .9        Curacautin
3    Copiap6               10       Valdivia
3    Vallenar              10       Ancud
4    La Serena             10       La Uni6n
4    Coquimbo              10       Rio Negro
5    Valparaiso           11        Ays6n
5    Vinla Del Mar         11       Rio lbafnez
5    Quilpue               12       Punta Arenas
5    Quillota             12        Natales
5    Villa Aleman.a       13        Maipu
5    Los Andes             13       La Florida
6    Rancagua              13       Puente Alto
6    Santa Cruz            13       Cerro Navia
6     Rengo                13        San Bernardo
6    Chimbarongo           13       Recoleta
7    Talca                 13       Pefialolen
7    Linares               13       Quinta Normal
7    Rio. Claro            13       Pedro A. Cerda
7    San Clemente         13        Nufioa
8    Talcahuano
8    Concepci6n
8    Los Angeles
8    Chillan
8    Coronel
8    San Carlos
'Only 25 municipalities will be initially selected from this list to participate in the project's basic module.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page: 34
Country: Cile                                        Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Revenues and Expenditures of Chile's Subnational Public Sector
Table 2.B
Municipal On-and Off-budget Revenues: 1990-96
Millions of Constant US$ of December 1996
Municipal On-budget Revenues                            1990      1996     Change   1990/96
________________________________________________      _______.  A bsolute    %
Investment income                                            12.5      25.4      12.8    102.5%
Real property tax                                            74.5    172.1       97.6   131.0%
Vehicle license tax (1)                                      51.3      92.8      41.5    80.9%
BusinessTax (1)                                              65.1     181.7     116.6    179.2%
Solid waste collection fee                                   10.9      46.5      35.6   327.1%
Other fees                                                   43.3     104.7      61.4    141.9%
Fines and interest                                           16.0      36.8      20.8   129.8%o
Total own-source revenue    273.6    659.9    386.3   141.2%
Municipal Common Fund                                       149.7    391.1      241.3    161.2%
Total own-source revenue + automatic revenue sharing  423.3   1,050.9    627.7    148.3%
Other Transfers                                              22.6     109.8      87.2   385.4%
Neighborhood Improvement Program                              8.6      66.5      57.9   676.6%
Urban Improvement Program                                     2.7      17.4      14.8   554.7/
Other transfers                                              11.4      25.9      14.5    127.4%
Other sources of income                                      45.2      72.9      27.7     61.2%
Total Municipal On-budget Revenue            491.2   1,233.7    742.5   151.2%
Off-budget Sources of Municipal Revenue
National per student education subsidy                      389.1     833.6    444.6    114.3%
National per patient health subsidy                          54.1     131.9      77.8   143.7%
Other nationally funded municipal health programs             3.8      21.8      18.1   480.7%
National Regional Development Fundeducation infrastructure   24.5      58.1      33.6    137.6%
National Educational Infrastructure project           ____             32.5      32.5
National Regional Development Fund-health infrastructure     12.4      11.8      -0.7    -5.5%.
Subsidy to low-income water consumers                         0.9      29.2      28.3  3063.0%
Total Off-budget Municipal Revenue               484.8   1,118.9    634.1   130.8%
Total Municipal On- and Off-Budzet Revenues                 975.      352.6   1,376.7   141.1%
Note: (1) Does not include revenues transferred to the Municipal Common Fund.
Source: Carlos Caro Sales, Analisisfinanciero municipal: periodo 90-96. SUBDERE: Divisi6n
de Municipalidades (draft).



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page: 35
Country: Chile                                          Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Table 2.C
MUNICIPAL ON-BUDGET EXPENDITURES
Millions of Constant US$ of December 1996
Expenditure Category          l_  l_|_Change 90-96
1990      1996         Absolute        
Personnel                                   95.6     260.9       165.3  173.0%
Goods and Services                        206.1      407.9       201.8   97.9%
Services to the community               131.0     241.4       110.4   84.2%
Administrative costs                     75.1     166.5        91.4  121.7%
Current transfers                          100.0     283.1       183.1  183.1%
Transfers to education                   41.2     108.6        67.3  163.4%
Public                                 22.3       63.6       41.2  184.7%
Private                                18.9       45.0       26.1  138.2%
Transfers to health                      15.5      68.5        53.1  343.6%
Public                                  7.8       36.2       28.4  366.2%
Private                                 7.7       32.3       24.6  320.5%
Other transfers (*)                        43.3      106.0        62.6  144.60/
Real Investment                            113.1     302.8       189.7  167.8%
Withownresources                         83.5     215.1       131.5  157.5%
With external resources                  29.5      87.7        58.2  197.1%
Other Expenditures                  13.8      40.1        26.3  190.9%
Total On-Budget Expenditures              528.6   1,294.8        766.3  145.0%
Source: Contraloria General do la Repdblica
Note: (*) Does not include transfers to the Municipal Conimon Fund



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page: 36
Country: Chile                                       Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Table 2.D
Regionally Decided Investments, 1996-2000
Millions of Constant US$ of December 1996
Categories                                                                  Change 1996/2000
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000         Absolute     %
Total Public Investment        2,092.8  2,323.9  2,580.4  2,865.6  3,182.1   1,089.3    52.0%
Regionally Decided Investment    465.2   658.7   893.3  I ,133.4  1,336.5      871.4   187.3%
/O of Total Investment          22.2%    28.3%    34.6%    39.6%    42.0%,
SUBDERE.
Table 2.E
Main Funds Available to Municipalities
Ministry                                            unds and Spanish Acronyms|
Interior                                          National Regional Development Fund (FNDR)
Urban Improvement Fund (PMU)
Neighborhood Improvernent Fund (PMB)
Public Works                                      Feeder Roads
Rural Drinldg Water
Housing and Urban DevelopTent                     Urban Paving
Health                                            Urban Health Centers in the Metropolitan Region
Defense                                           Sports and Recreation Infrastructure (DIGEDER)
Plaoning                                          Social Solidarity Fund



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page: 37
Country: ChOe                                        Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Annex 3
Chile Second Municipal Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Millions)
Proiect Component                                     Local            Foreign        Total
National Institutional Strengthening                   1.0               0.8            1.8
Municipal Strengthening                                15.2              3.0          18.2
Project Administration and Training                    2.8               0.2           3.0
Front-End Fee                                                            0.1            .1
Total Project Cost                                    19.0               4.1          23.1



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page: 38
Country: Chie                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Annex 4
Chile Second Municipal Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The PEU would be responsible for assuring that procurement is done in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Procurement of goods would be undertaken through contracts in accordance with
Bank's Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, as revised
January and August 1996 and September 1997). National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures would be based on agreed standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods.
Recruitment of consultants' services (consulting firms or individuals consultants) for technical
studies, training and audits would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines on Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997). In case there is any
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), the Bank's standard procurement guidelines would be
used. Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) would be used for the contracting of
consultants. All of these documents would be included in the Project Manual.
All goods estimated to cost over US$350,000 shall be procured using ICB procedures. Contracts
for goods less than US$350,000 (approximately US$2.5 million, or 10% of total project costs),
including inter alia surveys, aerial photography, and satellite imagery may be awarded on the
basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement for goods costing less than
US$100,000 (up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million, or 9% of total project costs) may be
carried out through shopping involving at least three price quotations. These arrangements are
summarized in Table A.
Consultant services, expected to cost approximately US$15.0 million, or 65% of total project
costs, would be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines Use of Consultants by the World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency, dated January 1997. These
arrangements are summarized in Table C. Quality and Cost Based Selection (OCBS) is the
primary selection method for hiringz consultants. These services would include, inter alia,
the studies to be carried out under the Project's national component, preparation of CODEPs and
strategic plans. For those contracts involving services such as development of health and
education strategic plans and simplification of procedures, estimated at less than $100,000 per
contract, consultants may be selected on the basis of their qualifications (estimated aggregate
cost US$300,000). Contracts, costing less than US$200,000 per contract for services such as
development of municipal budgeting systems, and public service plans, may be awarded to
consultants on a Least-Cost basis (estimated aggregate cost US$500,000). Individual consultants
may be hired for assignments in accordance with Section 5 of the Guidelines, for up to an
aggregate cost of US$700,000.
The PEU would review ex-ante the procedures for all procurement of goods and consulting
services. The Bank would review ex-ante all terms of reference for consulting assignments
(regardless of their estimated cost). The Bank will also review ex-ante: all documentation for
contracts with individuals and firms respectively valued at US$50,000 and US$100,000 or more,
and for assignments of a critical nature. Prior Bank and PEU review of procurement procedures
for goods and consulting services is summarized in Table B. Table C presents the consultant
selection arrangements for the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page: 39
Country: Chile                                          Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
The Bank would review the first two NCB contracts per year for goods and services on an ex-
ante basis, as well as the first two contracts for shopping (price quotations). The Bank would
review the remaining contracts awarded under NCB, and shopping procedures on an ex-post
basis by sampling. If it were determined that procurement was not carried out following agreed
procedures, no expenditures for such items would be financed from the proceeds of the loan, the
Bank would cancel the corresponding loan amount, and the Special Account would be
reimbursed accordingly by the Borrower. This effort should not only streamline project
execution but also reduce the Bank's supervision burden.
Table A: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS 1/
(US$ million)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                         Total Cost
ICB        NCB        Shopping   Other      N.B.F. 4/
Goods and Services2/                 0.0        2.5        1.7                              4.2
___ __ _  (0-0)  (1-9)      (1.3)                     _       (3.2)
Consultants Services 3/              0.0                             15.2                  15.2
_________________________          (0.0)                            (6.0)                  (6.0)
Dissemination Campaign               0.0                   0.3        0.3                   0.6
(0.0)                 (0.2)      (0.1)                 (0.3)
Project Administration               0.0                              0.5        2.5        3.0
i _______________________          (0.0)                            (0.5)       (0.0)      (0.5)
Front-End Fee                                                         0.1                   0.1
____ ___ ___ ____ ___   __ ____   _ __   _(0.1)  (0.1)
Total                                0.0        2.5        2.0       16.1        2.5       23.1
(0.0)      ( (19)     (1.5)      (6.7)      (0.0)     (10.1)
1/ Figures in parenthesis indicate Bank financing
2/ Includes, inter alia surveys, aerial photography, and satellite imagery for cadaster-related subprojects.
3/ Includes fees, material, equipment, preparation of documents, travel and subsistence costs. Also,
includes up to US$.5 million for Technical assistance for the PEU.
41 Includes salaries of PEU staff and other operating costs (e.g. office supplies, rent, utilities, etc.) not
eligible for reimbursement under the Loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page: 40
Country: Chile                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Category                  Procedure         Prior PEU          Prior Bank
Review            Review
Goods
Less than US$100,000                 Shopping             All            1st two/year
Greater than US$100,000                NCB                All            Is'two/year
Greater than US$350,000                ICB                All                All
Consuling Services 1/
a) Individual
Less than US$50,000                Contract             All            Only TORs
US$50,000 or more                  Contract             All               All
b) Firms
Less than US$100,000               Contract             All            Only TORs
US$100,000 or more                 Contract             All               All
i/ Prior review should cover RFPs, shortlists, TORs and technical and combined evaluations reports
Table C: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Consultant Category      (CBS    LCS        CQ        I     Total Costs
A. Firms                   13.7      .5       .3       0            14.5
B. Individuals                                        .7             0.7
Total                      13.7      .5       .3      .7            15.2
Note: QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
LCS   = Least Cost Selection
CQ    = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
I      = Individual Consultants
Disbursement
To withdraw the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, the following categories and
disbursement percentages are proposed:
*  Fifty percent (50%) of total expenditures for consultant services, training, and audits,
including travel expenses related to these services.
*  Seventy five percent (75%) of local expenditures for goods.
*  One hundred percent (100%) of local ex-factory expenditures for goods.
*  One hundred percent (I 00%/o) of foreign expenditures for goods.
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish, maintain, and operate



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page: 41
Country: Chile                                  Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish, maintain, and operate
in a commercial bank (under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank) a Special Account in
US dollars. The authorized allocation will be US$1.0 million. The initial deposit will be limited to
US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the loan account plus the total amount
of outstanding special commitments shall be equal to or exceed US$1,500,000. All disbursements
against contracts for less than US$100,000 for goods and services, consultant firms, and for less
than US$50,000 for individual consultants, would be made on the basis of certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). The documentation for SOEs would not be sent to the Bank but would be
retained by the PEU and made available for inspection by Bank staff. All other disbursements
would be made against standard documentation.
Retroactive financing: Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after April 27, 1998 (but
not earlier than 12 months before loan signing) in an amount not to exceed US$ 1.0 million (10% of
the Loan amount) is recommended.
m. Accounts and Audits
Account: The PEU will maintain identified accounts of the project in accordance with
internationally accepted accounting procedures. The accounts will show expenditures for each
project component, subdivided by expenditures financed by the Borrower and the Bank. An audit
of the financial status of the program would take place once a year for the PEU components.
Audits: T'he audit would be carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
The audit reports would be sent to the Bank not later than four months after the end of the calendar
year. The report would include, inter alia, specific opinions on: (a) sources of proceeds and their
use; (b) SOEs; and (c) implementation of contracting clauses, and compliance with procurement
procedures and other financing conditions included in the project manual. The Special Account
would also be similarly audited.
Table D: Allocation of Loan proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$ million      Financing Percentage
Goods                                              3.2                       32%
Consultants Services and Training                  6.0                       60%
Dissemination Campaign                             0.6                        6%
Front End Fee                                      .1                         1%
Total                                             10.1



Project Appraisal Dacasasat                                                   Page: 42
Cautry: Chlue                                    Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Annex 5
Chile Second Municipal Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$)                          Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
105,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          5                     5
First Bank mission (identification)              1115/1998            4/27/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     5/25/1998             5/25/1998
Negotiations                                     8/6/1998              11/10/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    11/30/98              3/31/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, and Ministry of Interior's Subsecretariat of Regional
Development and Administration (SUBDERE)
Preparation assistance: Reallocation of US$500,000 from the MDPP was approved on December
1998 by the Bank, but the Borrower did not use the funds.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Miguel Mercado-Diaz                       Task Manager
Eleoterio Codato                          Municipal Finance
David Vetter                              Urban Economist
Beth Dabak                                Consultant (Operational Aspects)
Asif Faiz                                  Sector Leader
Maria E. Freire                           Peer Reviewer
Jim Hicks                                  Peer Reviewer



Prject Appraib Dweunt                                                       Puue 43
Cobmrr Chile                                    Projet Title: Second Munckipal DeveIpmut Projc
Annex 6
Chile Second Municipal Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Green Cover Review Meeting Package
2. Review Meeting Agenda
3. Summary of Negotiations
C. Other
Summary Report on NISM
Summary Report on Municipal Budgeting Improvement Program
Summary Report on Project monitoring, evaluation and dissemination system
Summary Report on Impact of regional and sector investments on municipal finances
Draft TORs for all elements of National Institutional Strengthening Component
List of Consumer Price Index
Municipal Financial Analysis
Fondo Comun Municipal
Fuentes y Uso de Recurso Para el Desarrollo Regional
Evaluaci6n Ex-Post FNDR 1990-1994
Decreto Supremo No. 2385 del Interior
Guia de Gobiemos Regionales
Gobiemos Regionales: Legislaci6n y Jurisprudencia Administrativa
Fondo Comfin Municipal: Analisis y Propuesta de Reformulaci6n
Democracia Regional y Local, Diciembre 1997, No. 25
Fondo Comuin Municipal - 1994
Metodologfa de Distribuci6n del Fondo Comun Municipal
Ley No. 18.695, Organica Constitutional de Municipalidades
Ley No. 19.526, Reforma Constitucional sobre Administraci6n Comunal
Ley Organica Constitutional sobre Gobierno y Administraci6n Regional
Rancagua: La Fecundidad de un Gobierno Municipal (Friedrich Ebert Stiftung)
El Mercurio: Sabado 21 de Marzo de 1998: Para Reformas Politicas
*Including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations Is Chile
Operations Portfolio
As of 04-Nov-98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Oria    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projectat 52
Active Projects
CL-PE-55481     1999   GOVERNMENT                        HIGHER EDUCATION                      145.45         0.00        0.00            145.45        0.00        0.00
CL-PE-6676      1996   GOVT OF CHILE                     SECANO AG DEV I                        15.00         0.00        0.00              8.57        4.63        0.00
CL-PE-6661      1995   HIN PUB WORKS (MOP)              THIRD RD SCTR                          120.00         0.00        0.00             64.48       52.79        0.00
CL-PE-6673      1995   REPUBLIC OF CHILE                SECONDARY ED                            35.00        0.00         0.00             27.55       17.08        0.00
CL-PE-6612      1993   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               IRRIG DEV                              45.00        0.00        31.00              4.22       33.22        1.55
CL-PE-6639      1993   REPUBLIC OF CHILE                HEALTH SECTOR                           90.00        0.00         0.00             14.80       14.00       14.80
CL-PE-6664      1993   REPUBLIC OF CHILE                ENVIRON/INSTIT DEV                      11.50        0.00         0.00              1.07        1.06        0.00
Total                                                                                          461.95         0.00       31.00            266.14      123.58       16.35
Active Pro1ects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 164.80           2,782.16            2,946.96
of which has been repaid:                  4.50            1,941.44            1,945.94
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 426.45              848.70           1,275.15
Amount sold                                       0.00                7.19                7.19
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                7.19                7.19
Total Undisbursed               :               266.14                7.98              274.12
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Oct-98.



Project Apprabal Documet                                                         Page: 45
Contry: Chlie                                      Project Title: Second Municipal Development Project
Chile
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1987/88/89            Celulosa Arauco          0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00
1989/91               Escondida               11.18    7.48    0.00    1.36   11.18    7.48    0.00    1.36
1989/93/94            CELPAC                   9.12    0.00    0.00    5.00    9.12    0.00    0.00    5.00
1990                  ING-MLF-Nature F         1.18    0.00    0.00    1.78    1.18    0.00    0.00    1.78
1990/92/93            CTC                     14.76    0.00   20.00   16.19   14.76    0.00   20.00   16.19
1990/94               Leasing Andino           8.75    0.00    0.00   12.50    8.75    0.00    0.00   12.50
1991/93               Aconcagua                0.00    6.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.45    0.00    0.00
1991/93               FIBRANOVA                0.00    1.54    2.00    0.00    0.00    1.54    2.00    0.00
1991/94               BOMASA                   1.89    2.00    2.80    2.06    1.89    2.00    2.80    2.06
1993                  Pangue                   0.00    4.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.82    0.00    0.00
1994                  Pionero Fondo            0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96/97            Moneda Asset Mgt         0.00     .46    0.00    0.00    0.00      .46    0.00    0.00
1995                  Latasa-Chile             4.50    2.50    0.00    0.00    4.50    2.50    0.00    0.00
1996                  FEPASA                  14.50    0.00    6.00    6.00   13.44    0.00    6.00    5.56
1996                  Proa Fund                0.00    8.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.32    0.00    0.00
1997                  Agrisouth Chile         10.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
Total Portfolio:                   75.88   43.53   38.30   49.89   74.82   41.57   38.30   49.45
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Ouasi  Partic
1999                  CBT                      0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  CBTI                     0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00
1994                  MERSAN                   0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    8.00    5.00    0.00



Chile at a glance
Ladin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Ameria   middlei
Chile    Carib.  Income      Devomnt dDbmond'
Pa997on mi r (mi7bzs)                             14.6       494      571                 Ul
GNP per cap  (AMaa method. USW                    5,020     3,880    4,520
GNP (Atlas metod, US$ blhins)                      73.4    1,917    2,584                       T
Avg annual gowt, 1191                                                                           i
Poputon (%)                                         1.5       1.7      1.5     GNP            /               Gross
Labor fro()                                         2.1       2.3      1.9    per
Most ecntm estiat (latt ea avaible, 199147)                                    capita        x   /        enromen
Poveity (% of poulation beow national povety lme)   21        ..
Umban popultion (% oftotal populatbin)              64        74       73
Life  xp dancyatbith (yeas)                         75        70       70
Iat morit (per 1,000 lle biths)                     I 1       32       30
Chld nainuitWon (% ofchWdren undsr5)                 1         ..                       Access to safe water
Acews to sle water (% of population)                85        73        79
Illteracy (% of popation age 15+)                    5        13        15
Groms prinatry enronment (% of schooasge poputeltin)  100    111       107       a       i
Male                                              ..        ..        ..             Uppr- e nM guP
Fen4k
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      19"       1997
Economic ntbr
GOP (USStbos)                              9.9    17.7       68.6     75.9
Groe dometc lnvasentlGO                   15.7    18.9       26.6     26.9                    Tmde
Emots of goods and      t icseP           25.1    29.1       28.2     26.9
Grs dolmetc savfKelDP                     20.0    21.9       24.5     24.5
Grs national s     GP                       ..    11.5      20.8      21.4                      T
Cuent aount balnceGDP                       ..       ..      .5.5     -5.3     Domestic     /    \
ht       WPem pymentsw                     2.11     7.9       1.7      1.4                                h       tSavin's
Toa debt/GDP                              57.0   119.4       40.0     414         ngs
Total dA sercexport                         ..       ..      32.7     20.9                      .
Present value of debUGDP                  S7.0   119.4      44.0
Preset valu of debteot                      ..       ..    160.8
Indebtadness
397646 1987-97    1996       1997  1998-02
(awrwage rn'algowth)C
GOP                               3.2      8.0      7.4      7.1       4.5        -Chde
GNP per capt                      -0.3     6.4      6.0       5.8      3.4              Upper              goup
Exports of goods aid srvIce       5.8    10.6    10.0         9.9      7.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      199       1907     Growth rates of output and rivestmnat%)
(16 ofGOP)
Awrlculbte                                 8.5      9.0      7.1       8.4   4'o
Idusry                                    40.5    37.0      39.3      35.1
Manwank                                 23.6    18.7       20.6     17.2    20t 
ServIe                                    51.0    54.0      53.6      56.5  '10
Private conoon                            66.0    65.5      65.3      65.5           u2   n3   14 e   s   so 0a
General governmiet corsmnwton             14.0    12.6       10.2     10.0       * '    -
rno.taofooods and svi                     20.8    26.0      30.3      29.2
(S.-as L wmwefvngrlhj                 197646  198797        1996     1997     Growth mtes of exports and haport (Y%)
Acricullue                                 2.9      6.4       3.9     -0.2   30 -
Inury                                      3.0     6.8       6.5       6.2   25
Makufwak                                 1.7      6.4       3.5      4.4    2t
Services                                   2.8      7.7      7.5       7.6    ' 
Privte consumton                           2.1      8.6      8.8       8.4     5
General government consmtion               0.1      3.5      3.1       3.3    0 z -'--
Gma dones0cm ivesbmt                       4.5    13.7       7.5      12.8           i2   93   St   a    a    a
Imports of goods and services              1.9    14.4      10.7      14.8            -^- -oxp        _
Gross national product                     1.3      8.2      7.5       7.2        _
Note: 1997 data ae preliminary esinmes.
The dimonds show ou kev idicahtor Ia-nl-i th cmutrv (in bold) comoared wth its income-orouo averace. If data are misaln. t  damond wi
be bicompleb



Chile
PCES OMd GOVENVIDUIT KNANCE_                                                            _      _      _      _      _
1976    1986      1996      1197     Inflation (%)
mcbangs)                                                                        25
Conwpd                                       ..       ..        .e      6.0
lniplllGOPd lfiar                         250.6    22.1        2.7      5.8
9 of GDP6 . MxkudS c(tot  1so0
Cwraewrsvnu                                  ..       ..      23.2     22.7             *2   93    s    ff    u       7
Cufwtbudget baanc                            ..       ..       5.8      5.5             -     GDP d.lao  -0CPI
OVtarswpiuasktkk                              ..      ..       2.3       1.9
TRADE
1976    1986      1996      1997      Export and Import lmvb (USS millons)
TomtaleipodsCobb)                             ..   4,191    15,405   16,923    25.0C0 .
CcWpr                                       ..   1,757     8,029    7.156    20000
Fnut                                        ..    683       1,266    1,189
MeInufhchms                                 ..   1,420      6.487    6,923    15s00o
TOMa in>flta (c)                              ..   3,436    17,828   19,660    10.000
Food                                        ..    152
Fua and energy                              ..    428       1,907    2,054     5.000
COMadtgoods                                 ..    732      4,736    5.311
elxMport  h do x(199511 Ct10                  ..       4        84       83            1 2                 s  
knIrpdcM,decx(1995s10l4                       ..      68       112      107                 *EExot       *
ToMs of ade (1995m100)                       ..       79        75       78
UALANCE d1PAVMUTS_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
1976    1986      1996      1997     Cufn wccosant balarc to GOP rnoe)
(LISS mmJ
Emqae of goods nd uNW vlcs                    ..      ..   18.771   20,608      0
liapain ofgoods ad  rndoo                     ..      ..   20,219   22,218
Rasxour    anc                               ..       ..   -1,448   -1,810
Nobthinw                                     ..       ..   -2,796   -2.974
Net curnit bransf                            ..       ..       500      528
Curent acnt balance                          ..       ..   -3,744   *4,058       .      
Fkining Mamns (net                           ..       ..    4,925    7,265
Changishn notue                              ..       ..   -1,181   -3,209    .6
Resrvs licluding god (USS mWn?s)             ..       ..   15,474   17,841
Can veion ras (DEC. IkMaSS)                13.1   193.0      416.2    426.0
ETERNAL DMT a  RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996     1997
(USSan-bes)                                                                     Composition of tot* dobt 1997 (SS m lhlona)
Tota datb ouLdsnO Ond dunad                5.620   21,145    27,403   31,440
NMD                                       136     962      1,093      980                   &9cO  s.9
IDA                                        22       17        10        9                             0.806
TOlmdClbitS-Wl                              981    2,220     6,141    4,314         G:9e921                 E:s76
aUm                                        18       77       352      178
IDA                                         0        1         1        1
CinpomCof dnt gO nmtlourosfla
Offcalk gants                              17       18       47        48
Oficil credIos                            -91      420      442      -347
Prsts creditorsn                          104      397     2.608    3,734
Feng9ndradi   nvntW                        *1      116     4,724    5,417                                 F: 19,359
Palt ooequty                                0        0       103        0
World Dank pragram
Cammlbtrinb                                33      316       15         0    A-IMD                        E--IBRrO
Ob b=ormenTS                               15     365        75        85     B-IA      D- OImuituwlb     F-Priva
pdrniparPanmaWmt                            9       25      264       110     C-IMF                       G-Short-twm
Natfis                                      6     340       -188      -25
ltRastps,wriew                            10       53       89       68
Ne tanwfem                                 -3     267       -278      -94
D m smapnt Economics                                                                                            9/28418



~~~IO



IBRD 25555
u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
j1,103m b"'Op
<                                                     z                                                                                                                                               "am    -
g
>                                    D                                                                                                                                       s o u t
F
_j                                               k  ZW
L., Ad..'                                                   2'-                                                                        A    m   e  r    c ci       "N
0                                                      (D                                                                                                                                                    AgH
A,,
CO                  LPAR SO                                                                                                                       HAIQU
NTI                                                                                                                                         8
46-
.0
Chik.
4-
41
MAIN ROADS
RAILWAYS
CONTOURS (1000. 0 .. k)
2?.                                                                                                                                                RIVERS
kLC                                                                                           SAL NE LAKES
ICE FIELDS
7E/ L                                                                                                                                                                   'M     MINES
36'                                                           +      INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
9F,                                                                                                          t    PORTS, THROUGH-PUT
=ls.l                                                                                                                                                                       E  EEDI G 3
d.                                                                                                                                                                      PER YEAR
NATIONAL CAP
2,r-                                                                                                                                         0      REGION CAPITA
--   PROVINCE BOU
T- IEGION
V  REGION
<
INTERN
z
ON
z
26'-
Cl,                                 z
ui                                                                           z
40'-
LU
Ti
Dal aF"090
<    2r                                                                      cr_
42'-
Th. b ... d-i.,     d- i-li-
-d -y fh,             h-
'Tbi.' UbUt"I.A Gp.'y"-",'jpd,.',   O.
-y d--
-h b ... d-i-



