Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4429-CH
Loan Agreement
(Second Municipal Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 13, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4429-CH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
Page  2
(a)
“Innovative Subproject” means a technical assistance subproject for 
testing innovative management styles and procedures of a Participating Municipality, 
which is eligible for financing in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Manual (as defined below); 
(b) 
“Institutional Development Subproject” means a subproject aimed to 
improve the internal processes of a Participating Municipality and consisting of the  
preparation of a municipal development plan, a strategic development plan, an 
organizational and human resource improvement plan, and/or the development of a 
management information system of such Participating Municipality, which is eligible 
for financing in accordance with the provisions of the Project Manual; 
(c) 
“Loan 3668-CH” means the loan provided by the Bank to the Borrower for a 
municipal development pilot project under the terms of the loan agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and the Bank on January 26, 1994;
(d)
“Municipal Association Subproject” means a technical assistance 
subproject for the improvement of the capabilities of two or more Participating 
Municipalities facing similar problems, in areas such as human resource and economic 
development, which is eligible for financing in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Manual; 
(e)
“Municipal Service Subproject” means a subproject aimed to improve the 
relationship of a Participating Municipality with its community and consisting of 
activities for the streamlining of business procedures, improvement of customer 
services, and cadasters, social development, protection of vulnerable groups, 
development of local economies and strengthening of municipal services, which is 
eligible for financing in accordance with the provisions of the Project Manual; 
(f)
“Participating Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(g)
“Participating Municipality” means any municipality which meets the 
eligibility criteria under the Project Manual to participate in the carrying out of 
Part B of the Project;
(h)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter 
dated November 11, 1998 from the Borrower to the Bank; 
(i)
“PEU” means the Project executing unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
(ii) of this Agreement; 
(j)
“Policy Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(m)
“SUBDERE” means the Borrower’s Subsecretariat of Regional Development and 
Administration (Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Regional y Administrativo) within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Interior; and 
(n)
“Subprojects” means Institutional Development Subprojects, Municipal 
Service Subprojects, Innovative Subprojects or Municipal Association Subprojects. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ten million 
one hundred and one thousand Dollars ($10,101,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
Page  3
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
Page  4
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SUBDERE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate economic, engineering, financial and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with each Participating 
Municipality, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Participating 
Agreements), providing, inter alia, for: 
(i)
the transfer, when applicable, to the Participating Municipality 
of the 
portion of the Loan allocated for such 
Municipality;
(ii)
the obligation of the Participating Municipality: (A) to carry out 
its 
Subprojects as provided in this Agreement; (B) to 
comply, in respect of its 
Subprojects, with the provisions of 
Sections 3.02 and 4.01 of this Agreement; 
and (C) to 
cooperate, as needed, with the Borrower in the carrying out of Part 
B of the Project; 
(iii)
the obligation of the Participating Municipality to appoint a 
Project 
coordinator for purposes of liaison between 
the Participating Municipality and 
the PEU; 
(iv)
the obligation of the Participating Municipality to finance at 
least 15% of 
the costs of each Subproject and to provide, promptly 
as needed, all other 
funds, and the facilities, 
services and other resources required for its 
Subprojects; 
and 
(v)
the obligation of the Participating Municipality to designate the 
Borrower, 
through PEU, as its agent for purposes of procuring 
goods and consultants’ 
services for its Subprojects, in 
the cases referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Participating Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, 
waive, fail to enforce or terminate such Participating Agreements or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through the PEU, carry out on behalf of the 
Participating Municipalities, the procurement of goods and consultants’ services 
which, as provided in the Project Manual: (i) requires a common approach for the 
implementation of the Subprojects of several Participating Municipalities; or (ii) may 
be carried out more efficiently by the Borrower, through the PEU.
Page  5
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
establish, and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project:
(i) 
a committee, with membership structure, functions and respon\1f
sibilities, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Policy 
Committee) including, inter alia:  
(A)
overall policy guidance to the PEU on the implementation of 
the Project; 
and 
(B)
review of the proposed selection of Municipal Association 
Subprojects 
and Innovative Subprojects in accordance with 
the Project Manual; and
(ii)
maintain, until completion of the Project, a Project executing 
unit, within 
SUBDERE, with functions and respon\1fsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank (PEU), 
including, inter alia: 
(A)
coordination of the execution of the Project, and assistance 
to the 
Participating Municipalities in the 
preparation, implementation, 
monitoring and 
evaluation of Subprojects, in accordance with the 
Project Manual; 
(B)
review and approval of Subprojects, in accordance with the 
provisions 
of the Project Manual; 
(C)
procurement of goods and selection of consul\1ftants under 
Part A of the 
Project, and for certain Subprojects, 
pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(D)
review and approval of the procurement of goods and 
selection of 
consultants carried out by the 
Participating Municipalities under 
Subprojects 
other than those referred to in (C) above; and 
(E)
preparation of the reports referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this 
Agreement, and Section 9.07 (c) of the General 
Conditions. 
(b)
ensure that the PEU is at all times headed by a Project Manager with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(c)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the discharge of the functions of the PEU.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31 and October 31 each year, commencing March 31, 1999, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30 and November 30 each year, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
Page  6
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a 
Project Manual satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia, the 
internal functioning of the PEU, the relations between the PEU and the Participating 
Municipalities, the eligibility criteria for Subprojects, the operational procedures 
for the carrying out of Subprojects, the institutional arrangements within 
Participating Municipalities, and the supervision, monitoring and evaluation 
procedures for Subprojects.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in SUBDERE a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall through SUBDERE: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year; (A) 
certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
Page  7
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any Participating Municipality 
shall have failed to comply with its obligations under its Participating Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Project Manual has been approved by the Bank;  
(b)
at least five Participating Agreements have been entered into by the 
parties thereto; and 
(c)
the Policy Committee has been established. 
Section 6.02. The date July 15, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Genaro Arriagada 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Guillermo Perry 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of the
  Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Genaro Arriagada 
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf of the
  Controller General of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Genaro Arriagada 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   3,400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)  
and 75% of other 
local expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services,
   6,600,000
50%
audits, services for surveys,
aerial photography and 
Page  9
satellite imagery, training 
and Dissemination
Campaign
(3)
Fee
     101,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
  __________
Agreement
TOTAL
 $10,101,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Dissemination Campaign” means the cost of publications, 
dissemination activities, and other activities related to the dissemination program 
referred to in Part A.4 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 27, 1998; and 
(b)
for goods and consultants’ services for Subprojects unless the respective 
Participating Agreement has been entered into and the respective coordinator referred 
to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement has been appointed.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods and services costing $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
except those under the first two contracts to be awarded each year during Project 
implementation in respect of which prior review is required pursuant to the provisions 
of Part D.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
consulting firms’ services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; 
(c)
individual consultants’ services under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d)
training and Dissemination Campaign, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the governance and efficiency in 
the provision of municipal services by strengthening: (i) the Borrower’s capacity to 
formulate, implement and monitor decentralization policies and programs; and (ii) the 
capacity of municipalities in areas such as municipal planning, financial and human 
resources management, and the management of health and education services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
National Institutional Strengthening 
Page  10
1.
Implementation of a national municipal information system designed to enhance 
the knowledge by the central, regional and municipal governments of the performance of 
municipalities in areas such as investment planning, municipal service delivery, and 
fiscal and human resource management.
2.
Implementation of a municipal budgeting improvement program consisting, inter 
alia, of:
(a)
provision of computer systems, and development of user-friendly computer 
software to help municipalities prepare their budgets;
(b)
expansion of the Borrower’s Manual de Planificación Presupuestaria 
Municipal, June 1996, to incorporate procedures for the selection and planning of 
investments, and the budgeting therefor;
(c)
updating of the manual referred to in (b) above to incorporate new legal 
and procedural requirements;
(d)
training of national and municipal staff in municipal budgeting skills 
and the operation of computer systems; and
(e)
establishment and operation of budget assistance units in Participating 
Municipalities. 
3.
Application of a methodology to reduce the claim processing time of social 
services provided by municipalities. 
4.
Dissemination of best practice and lessons of experience derived from the 
implementation of the Borrower’s program of municipal development partly financed by 
Loan 3668-CH and of other activities of the Borrower’s decentralization program 
through seminars and a communication campaign. 
5.
Implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the Project.
6.
Carrying out of studies for the improvement of the efficiency and fiscal 
performance of municipalities including, inter alia, studies: 
(a)
to develop typologies of municipalities according to their financial 
problems; 
(b)
to redesign, based on efficiency and performance considerations, the 
current system of national budget transfers to the municipalities; 
(c)
to enhance the planning, and management of public services, in urban 
areas;  
(d)
to develop instruments for improved municipal management such as 
participatory procedures for the selection of priority investments; and 
(e)
development of alternatives for the improvement of human resource 
management.
Part B:
Municipal Strengthening: 
1.
Financing of Institutional Development Subprojects. 
2.
Financing of Municipal Service Subprojects. 
3.
Financing of Innovative Subprojects. 
4.
Financing of Municipal Association Subprojects.
Part C:
Project Administration
Provision of technical assistance to SUBDERE to strengthen its capacity in, 
inter alia, financial management, procurement and project monitoring and evaluation, 
and for implementation of user surveys and assessments. 
Page  11
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
    (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
       Dollars)*
July 15, 2004
505,000 
January 15, 2005
505,000 
July 15, 2005
505,000 
January 15, 2006
505,000 
July 15, 2006
505,000 
January 15, 2007
505,000 
July 15, 2007
505,000 
January 15, 2008
505,000 
July 15, 2008
505,000 
January 15, 2009
505,000 
July 15, 2009
505,000 
January 15, 2010
505,000 
July 15, 2010
505,000 
January 15, 2011
505,000 
July 15, 2011
505,000 
January 15, 2012
505,000 
July 15, 2012
505,000 
January 15, 2013
505,000 
July 15, 2013
505,000 
January 15, 2014
506,000
TOTALS:
    10,101,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  12
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provision of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods, and services for surveys, aerial photography and satellite imagery for 
Subprojects estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
In the procurement of goods and services under this Part B.1 standard bidding 
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be used. 
2.
Shopping 
Goods, publishing services, and services for surveys, aerial photography and 
satellite imagery for Subprojects estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to all contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Part B.1 hereof and the first two contracts for goods to be awarded, during each 
year of Project implementation, in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 above, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be awarded, during 
each year of Project implementation, in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 
above, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  13
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the development of municipal budget systems and public service 
plans for Subprojects estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services for the development of health and education strategic plans and 
simplification procedures for Subprojects estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
Page  14
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
Page  15
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
