Document of
The World Bank
FOR omCaLn USE ONLY
RePt No. 5314
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THE EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
(CREDIT 980-BD)
November 6, 1984
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
Ihe document ha a resbictud distibsibo and -y be sed hy recipiets only in the perfonnmce of
tbdr offielnd t   s eutout  may no othrwise be disdoed wiout Wodd HBnk su shorton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENIS
In August 1979 the Bangladesh Taka was officially valued at Tk 34.7
to the Pound Sterling.  Since then the-Taka exchange rate has been determined
through a basket of major currencies, with the Pound Sterling as intervention
currency. Consequently, the Taka-US dollar rate has been subject to change.
The rates below have been used throughout this report except when otherwise
stated.
US$1         - Tk 15.5
Tk 1         - US$0.065
Tk 1 million - US$64,516
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BJMC    -   Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BER     -   Balancing, Modernization and Rehabilitation
BSB     -   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS    -   Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BTMC    -   Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
CCIE    -   Chief, Controller of Imports and Exports
ECL     -   Economics Consultants Ltd.
EDP     -   Export Development Program
EPB     -   Export Promotion Bureau
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
IPC     -   Imports Program Credit
ITC     -   International Trade Center
NMBR    -   National Board of Revenue
TCB     -   Trading Corporation of Bangladesh
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
UNIDO   -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
XPL     -   Export Performance Licenses
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR omICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANIGADESH - THE EIGHTH IIPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
(CREDIT 980-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
.
Preface .....   e                                                         i
Basic Data Sheet .........i
Highlights                     ..........ii
Is  INTRODUCTION .........................                             1
II.  BACKGROUND  2.e.e.ee.Ce....ee *          .............    .        2
III.  THE CREDIT                         ,                               3
A. The Credit Objectives ...........................               3
- Induistrial Action Programs                                  3
- Export Development Policy and Strategy ...........           4
B. Credit Administration ..........*.. ................            5
- Eligible Industriesa.....i............                       5
- Procurement     nt............e..     .......                5
- Disbursem        ntt .... ....................               6
IV.  IMPACT OF THE CREDIT................................ ..            6
A. Manufacturing Sector Overview                                   6
- Problems and Constraints                                     6
B. Review of the Action Programs                                   7
- Jute Industry                                                7
- Textile Industry ......... ................... .            8
- Pulp and Paper Industry .........    ..................      9
C. The Credit and Export Development ..................            9
- Export Promotion Bureau (EPB)                                9
- Export Incentives                                            10
- Export Strategy ..................................          12
- Export Performance          .............................. .  12
V. CONCLUSIONS ..............................                         13
ANNEXES
1. Balance of Payments
2. Credit 980-BD, Disbursements
3. IPC I-ViII, Cumulative Disbursements
4. Credit 980-BD, Credit Utilization
5.  Utilization by Sector of Previous IPCs
6.  Summary of External Economic Assistance, 1981/82-1983/84
7. Indices of Industrial Production, 1973/74-1982/83
8. Merchandise Imports, FY73-FY84
9.  Value of Merchandise Exports, 1972/73-1984/85
10.  Comments from the Government of Bangladesh, September 20, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - THE BIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
(CRRDIT 980-BD)
PREFACE
This report presents an evaluation of IDA's Eighth Imports Program
Credit 980-BD to Bangladesh for US$50 million. The Credit was approved
in April 1980 and closed in February 1982.
The Project Completion Report was prepared by the South Asia
Regional Office of the Bank, based on the findings of a mission *hich
visited the country in November 1983; the Staff Appraisal and President's
Reports; the credit documents and study of the project files. The report
presents a factual review of Government's use of the credit proceeds and
focusses on the progress made in strengthening the country's institutional
framework to promote exports. Comments received from the Borrower have been
taken into account in finalizing the report and are reproduced as Annex 10.
This program credit has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department; it is, however, included in the study entitled "Bangladesh -
Review of Import Program Credits I - X".



-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - THE EIGHTH DMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
(CREDIT 980-BD)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts in US$M)
LOAN STATUS
As of January 31. 1984
Original   misbursed   Cancelled  Repaid   Outstandlng
Credit 980-BD        50.0         50.0         -          -          50.0
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY80         FY81         FY82
(i)  Planned                   5.0          40.0         50.0
(ii)  Actual                    4.7          42.4         50.0
(iii)  (ii) as Z of (M)         94.0         106.0        100.0
OTHER PROJECT DATA
A.ctual
Board Approval                                    02/12/80
Credit Agreement                                  04/04/80
Effectiveness                                     04/21/80
Credit Closing                                    02/28/82
Borrower                                          Government of Bangladesh
Executing Agency                                  ERD, Ministry of Finance
MISSION DATA
Number of       Number of       Sta'f
Timing      Weeks          Persons        Weeks        Report
Appraisal        8/79        2                2             4         P/R only
Supervision      5/80        2                1             2           9/80
Supervision     12/80        3                1             3           1/81
Supervision      2/81         1               1             1           3/81
Supervision      6/81        3                3             9           7/81
Supervision      1/82         1               1             1           2/82
Supervision      6/82        1                8             8          7/82
Supervision      5/83        3                1             3           6/83
Completion      11/83        2                1             2           3/84



-iii-
PROJECT CONPLETIOI REPORT
BAIGLADESE - THE EIGRTE IPORTs PROGRAN CREIT
(CREDIT 980-BD)
HIGHLIGHTS
Credit 980-BD of US$50.0 million was the eighth IDA isports program
credit made to Bangladesh since 1972. The credit had dual objectives:
(i) to supply imported inputs essential to the major industries for
enhancing capacity utilization; and (ii) to address the need for policy
measures to resolve the specific issues, concerning the overall viability
of the jute and textile industries and the expansion of the Export
Development Program initiated under the Seventh Imports Program Credit
(Credit 866-BD).
While the Seventh Imports Program Credit focused directly on the
improvement of jute and textile mill efficiency through consolidation of
actions initiated under earlier imports program credits, the Eighth Imports
Program Credit emphasized the completion of these progrms. The overall
position of the jute and textile industries was sufficiently improved.
through capital restructuring and pricing policy adjustments, to justify a
move to project-specific involvement (paras. 24-28). In the continuing
policy dialogue between GOB and IDA on export development issues, the
Eighth Imports Program Credit concentrated on the medium-term export
development strategy, export incentives, and their administration. The
following points are of particular interest:
- some progress in capital restructuring and cash infusions by the
Government in the jute and textile industries (paras. 24, 26);
- the Export Promotion Bureau's progress in strengthening its
organization and the export infrastructure, and in completing
export and market studies (paras. 31-32);
- changes in the Export Performance Licenses scheme by shifting the
basis for awarding the licences to a net foreign exchange
earnings criterion (para. 34); and
- modification of the duty drawback system to expedite the
repayment process, reduce the production costs, and enhance
export incentive effects (para. 36).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - THE EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
(CREDIT 980-BD)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.      The Eighth Imports Program Credit to Bangladesh, Credit 980-BD for
US$50 million, was signed on April 4, 1980 and became effective on
April 21, 1980. The closing date was set at February 28, 1982, by which time
the Credit was fully disbursed.  The Credit brought the total of IDA's
imports program lending to Bangladesh to US$550 million.
2.      Prior to this credit, IDA made seven imports program credits (IPCs)
to Bangladesh starting in 1972. Project Performance Audit Reports have been
prepared for the first three (Credits 345-BD, 458-BD and 515-BD) and two
Project Completion Reports-for the Fourth and Fifth Credits (Credit 591-BD
and Credit 676-BD), and for the Sixth and Seventh Credits (Credit 752-BD and
Credit 866-BD)--were issued on February 4, 1980, and December 15, 1981,
respectively. Accordingly, this completion report is concerned only with
the impact of the Eighth Imports Program Credit.
3.      The primary rationale for the first three credits was the need for
rapidly disbursable foreign exchange necessary for the country's
rehabilitation after the War of Independence and natural calamities. The
program content of these credits focused upon the requirements of the
industrial sector and the need for better utilization of installed capacity.
Against a background of considerable capacity under-utilization, the Fourth,
Fifth and Sixth IPCs focused more specifically upon the long-term development
of the country's key industries, particularly jute, cotton textiles and pulp
and paper, while the Seventh IPC introduced a new policy focus, export
development. The Eighth Credit had two policy objectives: (i) to improve
the overall viability of the jute, textiles and pulp and paper industries
through completion of ongoing action program requirements, leading to the
development of specific sectoral projects; and (ii) to consolidate progress
in the Export Development Program (EDP) while expanding the program in key
areas necessary for the development of a comprehensive export policy and
strategy.
II. BACKGROUND
4.      Economic improvements in the late 1970s, together with greater
political stability, signified a shift in Bangladesh's circumstances and



-2-
brightened somewhat its economic prospects. In fact, FY80 was regarded as a
period of consolidation of the country's economic recovery from the shocks of
the early 1970s. For the planners and policymakers, it was an opportunity to
focus anew on longer-term development needs. In recognition of the need for
a fundamental reorientation of policies, the Government chose to delay a new
Five-Year Plan by two years. Thus, the Two-Year Plan period (FY79-FY8O)
offered the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) time to consider the development
strategy and policies to be incorporated in the Five-Year Plan of FY81-FY85.
5.      Bangladesh's balance of payments had, however, continued to be
characterized by a massive trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid.
Export earnings of US$610 million in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and
less than 40% of the import bill. Moreover, exports remained dominated by
raw jute and jute goods, which together accounted for approximately 702 of
total export earnings. Among the principal categories of imports planned for
FY80 were foodgrains (28%), capital goods (20%), petroleum products and crude
petroleum (14%), and fertilizer (6%).
6.      During FY79 and FY80, Bangladesh's balance of payments situation
deteriorated markedly. Total FY80 import payments rose to nearly
US$2.4 billion, an increase by 52% from the FY79 level of US$1.5 billion.
The trade balance, which had already shown a large deficit in FY79,
deteriorated to a deficit of almost US$1.65 billion in FY80, a 74% increase
over the preceding period, due to rising foodgrain imports caused by the 1979
food shortages, coupled with the OPEC price increases. The need to finance
commercial purchases of food imports had led to GOB's rather cautious
implementation of its import program: non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained
considerably below target. As a result, foreign exchange reserves in FY79
increased substantially. The reserve increase was, however, a temporary
phenomenon. In the following year (FY80), there was an overall balance of
payments deficit (decline in reserves) of US$118 million as compared to a
surplus (increase in reserves) of a roughly similar magnitude in FY79. The
end-FY8O level of international reserves was equivalent to about one month's
imports.
7.      The FY80 balance of payments outlook was also grim, although there
were mixed indications. Prospects looked favorable with respect to: rising
prices of jute manufactures owing to the impact of disruptions in the Indian
jute industry; growing non-traditional exports; continued rapid growth in
worker's remittances; and a more rapid commodity and cash aid utilization.
However, with no significant changes expected in the import bill for
foodgrains and petroleum products (POL) prices, there was little prospect of
any major changes in the balance of payments situation. For industry, this
would mean that the foreign exchange available for imports could limit the
volume of imports of raw materials and intermediate goods imports required
for stimulating and increasing industrial production. It was against this
background that the Eighth Program Credit was approved on April 4, 1980.
The Need for Program Aid
8.      Bangladesh's need for non-project aid (i.e., commodity or program
aid) arose from the inadequacy of the country's domestic savings to finance
its investments and the similar inadequacy of its foreign exchange earnings
to cover import requirements. In spite of substantial progress in domestic



-3-
financial resource mobilization and increasing worker's remittances, national
savings still constituted only about 3% of GNP. Although the investment
rate, at about 14% of GNP in FY80, was very low, external aid financed about
80% of total investments; the savings/investment gap widened from about
8%-lOX of GNP during FY75-FY79 to over 14% in FY80.
9.      A corollary of this savings/investment disequilibrium was the severe
structural imbalance in Bangladesh's external trade. Export earnings during
the late 1970s averaged less than one third of import payments. Mainly due
to the deterioration in the terms of trade, this proportion further declined
to 28% in FY81. The external resource gap could not be narrowed dramatically
in the short-term--even with growing import substitution in foodgrains,
fertilizers and energy-because of uncertain export prospects for jute and
the small base from which other exports has only recently begun to grow.
Project aid alone-averaging more than 5% of GNP, but covering almost all of
the foreign exchange cost of public investment-was insufficient to close the
savings and external resource gaps. Without commodity and program
assistance, the supply of essential imports would have been curtailed sharply
-- with severe adverse effects for industrial production, for public finances
in general, and for development financing in particular.
10.     Since only part of the development program could be formed into
projects suitable for project aid financing, it was impossible to transfer
to Bangladesh the amount of external assistance required to sustain economic
growth by means of project aid disbursements alone. In Bangladesh, aggregate
expenditures on externally aided projects usually have not exceeded 60% of
the total ADP, and since most donors have rarely financed more than 75% of
the total cost of individual projects, direct project financing was limited
to about 45% of total ADP expenditures.  Substantial program assistance ars
needed to meet the additional external financing requirements.   Effecting
the adjustments required to overcome Bangladesh's deep-rooted and structural
resource problems would take considerable time and need to be supported by
continued sizable inflows of concessional aid, including non-project aid.
III. THE CREDIT
The Credit Objectives
11.     The Eighth IPC had dual objectives:  (i) to provide quick disbursing
funds for the import of essential raw materials, components and equipment to
enable the major export-oriented and import-substituting industries to
enhance capacity utilization and augment production; and (ii) to address the
need for policy measures to resolve the specific issues concerning the
overall viability of the jute, textiles and paper industries through
completion of ongoing action program requirements. and concerning export
incentive revisions, procedural improvements and export strategy included in
the Export Development Program (EDP).
12.     Industrial Action Programs.  In 1975, in an effort to strengthen the
developmental impact of the program credits, GOB and IDA moved from a general
balance of payment approach to program lending; and the Industrial Action
Programs were developed. Thus under the Fourth IPC, attention was focused



-4-
upon the jute manufacturing industry through the Bangladesh Jute Mills
Cn poracion (BJMC) and upon the cotton teatlle Industry through the
Bangladesh Textiles Corporation (BTMC). Under the Initial program  and
subsequent expansions, specific measures were developed to: (t) improve
capacity utilization, through mill maintenance programs and spare parts
procurement; (ii) reduce the cost of raw material, particularly of raw jute;
(iii) improve production efficiency; and (Iv) improve the financial
performance and viability of the major industrial firms through improved cost
control and pricing policLes, capital restructuring and asset replacemenc
programs.
13.     After the first action programs Introduced under the Fourth Credit,
subsequent action programs (through the Seventh Credlt) aimed to create the
basis for the long term development of Bangladesh's key industrial areaso.
Although progress, as anticipated, had been slow and not all of the problems
of the jute, textile, pulp and paper, and fertilizer industries had been
solved, sufficient progress had been made in strengthening operations and
financial profitability to justify a move to a project specific involvement
for future operations in these subsectors. In Chapter IV, the impact of the
action programs on each subsector development are reviewed.
14.     Export Development Policy and Strategy.  In FY78, COB's industrial
policy shifted from an emphasis on the public sector to greater encouragement
to the private sector. However, this shift was not supported by an
industrial strategy linking the policies, incentives and investment programs
necessary to achieve rapid development of the private sector; nor was there a
clear program to develop export industries, despite the recognition of this
need. Between FY77 and FY79, Bangladesh's exports grew by about 5% p.a. in
constant prices; and the export commodity composition changed with a
gradually increasing proportion of non-jute goods (31% of total export in
value terms by FY79). However, rising export earnaings were largely a result
of significant price increases for leather and jute goods. These price gains
were offset to a considerable degree by the low volume of exports,
particularly of goods other than jute. This export performance clearly
suggested that the GOB's export development strategy ought to focus on policy
measures and invesrment programs conducive to diversification of manufactured
exports, along with the development of institutional measures Seared to
promoting non-traditional exports.  In support of COB's effort, an IDA
mission reviewed the Ban&ladesh industrial sector in FY79, and identified key
policy and institutional issues. In consequence, an EDP was formulated in
collaboration with GOB and the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB), and became part
of the focus of the Seventh IPC. The program aimed at the development of a
medium-term export strategy, covering broadly three basic Issues in export
development: (a) policies, procedures, incentives and other factors
affecting the policy framework; (b) institution-building aimed at
strengthening promotion, organization, information and other services to
exporters; and (c) product selection, design, production and supply problems
affecting the growth and diversification of exports. It was agreed by GOB,
EPB and IDA that the crucial factors to bring about positive effects on
export development would be the establishment of a sequence of actions on
policies, procedures, incentives, and a precise implementation timetable.
15.     The Eighth IPC in 1979 focused on the development of a comprehensive
export strategy, and measures to strengthen the EDP including: (i) removal



-5-
of supply constraints ln non-traditLonal exports; (ii) Increasing the
effectiveness of existing export incentives; and (iiL) improvemwnt of data
collectlon and analysim necessary to monitor export performance. The Credit
emphasized revisLon of the Export Performance License (XPL), improvement of
the duty drawback system, and development of a more fficient system of
collecting, monitorLng and presenting export statistics.
16.     Modification of the XPL system was proposed to shift the goneral
basLs of awarding licenses from gross f.o.b. values to a net foreign exchange
earnings, thus encouraging the efficient use of domestic resources and
promoting diversification of exports. The duty drawback system required
simplification to reduce the delays in claim processing, and hence to
minimize an additional cost of financing imported inputs for export
production.  Wlth growing exports, the need for comprehensive, accurate
statistics on which to base future development decisions had become pr-sellig.
To provide this information, the Eighth Credit stressed the Importance of a
rational system of data collection, analysis and dissemination.
Credit Administration
17.     Eligible Industries.  Industry groups designated as high priority
were the main beneficiaries of the IPCs which isslated these industries by
financing imports of essential raw matecrlls and spare parts to sustain
production. From the Fourth IPC, the list of eligible industries (Annex 4)
totalled eight, lncluding the countryfa major export Lndustry, i.e., jute,
and major import substitution industries such as textiles, pulp and paper,
fertilizer and cement. These industry groups were selected since they had
acceptable domestic resource costs (ORCs) and met one or more of the
following conditions: (1) direct and Indirect Impact upon exports,
e.g. non-tradItional exports, such as leather, tea, shrimp, etc.; and
(l) hLgh direct and indirect multiplier effect on utilization of Installed
capacity and a substantial impact upon employment generation.
18.     Procurement.  As with the earlier program credits, the enterprises to
which funds were allocated handled the procurement under the Eighth IPC.
ResponsibLILty for sector procurement remained with the variou sector
corporations, while procurement for the private sector was made either
*          through the Trading Corporstion of BanglAdesh (TCB) or by individual private
sector org4lnizatLons. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE) was
responsible for issuing all licenses for Laports under the Credits and for
-          handling the ailloc4tions of funds to the private sector.  The procurement
procedures of GOB and its sector corporations were satisfactory and in line
wLth Bank Group Guidelines. These procedures covered about 802 of the total
purchases under the Credits. All imports of cement and steel were procured
through international competitive aidding (ICB). Except for proprietary
Items, other goods costing US$100,000 equivalent or more were procured either
through ICB or limited international tendering (LIT), from Switzerland and
member countries of IDA. As was the case with the preceding IPCs, IDA
reviewed GOB's procurement decisions after such contracts had been signed and
prlor to the submission to IDA of the first withdrawal application in respect
of each contract. Contracts for non-proprietary items below US$100,000 were
procured through normal commercial channels with the Invitation of bids from
not less than three suppliers.  About 7S: by value of the items financed



-6-
under the Credit were procured under ICB and were subject to IDA's
post-review.
19.     Disbursement.  Credit 980-BD was fully disbursed by February 1982.
Annex 2 shows details of projected and actual disbursement of the Credit.
Generally, yearly disbursement totals were close to those projected at the
time of appraisal, although quarterly disbursements varied from projected
levels. Actual utilization by Industry showed a significant variation from
the coiling set during negotiations. However, this was expected, as the use
of the ceiling was to allow GOB flexibility to channel funds to high priority
areas while utilizing non-IDA funds for other purposes. Annex 3 sbows the
cumulative disbursements by category for the first seven IPCs compared to the
Eighth IPC.
IV. IMPACT OF THE CREDIT
Manufacturiag Sector Overview
20.     At the time of the Eighth IPC appraisal (FY80), the manufacturlng
sector accounted for about 8% of GDP, 62% of total exports and 14% of the
total work force. Thus, it ranked third after agriculture and the service
sector in economic importance and provided an outlet for agricultural
products and much needed employment. As a result of nationalization of many
industries following Independence, most of the large and medium scale
enterprises were in the public sector which consisted of approximately 275
units organized under the administrative control of seven corporations,
namely: jute, textiles, chemicals, steel and engineering, food, cement and
forestry. The public sector accounted for 65% of the value-added In
industry, 85% of iianufactured exports and 25Z of the industrial labor force.
21.     The public industrial sector Included the largest export-oriented
industry, jute and import substitutlon industries, e.g., textiles, chemicals,
pulp and paper. The jute manufacturing and cotton textile industries
constituted close to half of the industrial capacity in Bangladesh having
essential links to the agricultural, rural and cottage industry sectors of
the economy. In FY79, the jute industry contributed about 30% of the value
added in the organized manufacturing sector, 50% of manufactured exports, and
employed 170,000 workers. The cotton textile industry, the second largest
industry in Bangladesh, has shown a steady improvement In performance since
independence. The industry accounted for around 152 of value added in the
manufacturing sector, employed 76,000 workers producing about 60% of the
total yarn requirement.
22.     Problems and Constraints.  Overall, the industrial sector had
recorded a slow increase in production since FY74, due to the improved
avallability of raw materials, intermediate goods and spare parts and to a
higher domestic demand for manufactured products. Despite higher production,
many enterprises suffered from low capacity utilization. While average
capacity utilization was about 65% in FY79, capacity utilization in some
industries was as low as 40%. The reasons varied, but a number of common
factors identified included: (i) irregular and insufficient raw materials
supply; (ii) equipment breakdown and poor maintenance; (iii) insufficient



-7-
labor training and migration to the Middle East; (iv) administrative delays
linked to excessive centralization; (v) frequent power cuts; (vi) inadequate
transportation; (vii) lack of spare parts and components linked to foreign
exchange shortages; and (viii) lack of working capital which prevents
procurement of sufficient spares and components and even, in some cases, raw
materials to operate at capacity. Thus, low capacity utilization was only a
symptom of the many serious problems affecting production efficiency.
Review of the Action Programs
23.     Overall, GOB and the Sector Corporations had made progress during the
second half of 1970s, albeit very slow, in implementing the action program
requirements, particularly in the jute and textile mill rehabilitation.
Under the Seventh IPC, IDA reviewed this progress and consolidated the
actions outstanding, in order to focus directly on the improvement of mill
efficiency and profitability.  The Eighth Credit, while embodying the
transition to a more general approach, emphasized the completion of ongoing
action programs, especially for the jute and textile industries, and to a
lesser extent the pulp and paper industry.
24.     The Jute Industry.  In the case of the jute industry, there were two
main issues: (i) the capital restructuring of BJMC; and (ii) the development
of an optimal export and pricing strategy for raw jute and jute goods. Due
to the continuous operating losses over the preceding years, the BJNC had a
negative equity base and its operations were funded by budget appropriations
and term loans from GOB and the banking system. To rectify this situation
and to place BJMC's operation on a sound commercial basis, GOB agreed to
implement an annual phased capital restructing program for BJMC and its
units, to be completed by December 31, 1983. Uader the program, GOB agreed:
Xi) to provide a yearly minimum cash infusion equal to the amount required by
BJMC and its units to service the debts due to the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
(BSB), Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstba (BSRS) and the Commercial Banking
system which has funded BJMC's capital expansion, in accordance with the
repayment schedule agreed with the lending institutions; and (ii) to convert
the ADP allocation into equity (about Tk 370 million, equivalent to
US$24.0 million). GOB agreed to provide BJHC with about Tk 2,700 million
(US$175 million) of equity in the form of four annual infusions of cash; the
actual cash infusions were to be adjusted to reflect any after tax profits or
losses incurred by BJKC and its units during the period to December 31, 1983.
GOB's cash infusions and conversions of ADP allocations into equity were
expected to reduce BJMC's debt/equity ratio to 60:40, and to decrease overall
interest charges by about Tk 350 per ton, thereby making all product lines
profitable. On June 30, 1980, BJMC received the first tranche of the cash
infusioa and made the payments due to BSB and BSRS. These adjustments led to
an improvement in BJMC's FY80 operating profit of about Rs 850 million. For
annual cash infusions in the subsequent years, GOB has provided detailed
information to IDA on September 20, 1984 (Annex 10).
25.     The second major issue was GOB's position on the development of an
optimal export and pricing strategy for raw jute and jute goods (the major
component of the country's export earnings). Under the Sixth IPC,-a
consultaat reviewed GOB's pricing policies for raw jute purchases, determined
the optimal mix between raw jute and jute goods exports, and proposed
appropriate policies for jute distribution and allocation. Under the Eighth



Credit GOB acted upon these recommendations and established mechanisms/
procedures for development of an optimal pricing structure/export strategy.
GOB established a Jute Strategy Cell within the Ministry of Jute, with the
function of monitoring movement In raw Jute pricing as part of the
development of an export strategy and optimal pricing structure. In
addition, major weaknesses in marketing and production plaaning were
eliminated, and a market information system was implemented. With the
assistance of UNIDO, BJKC improved quality coatrol, tilis, coupled with the
introduction of export inspection service, resulted in a significant
reduction of claims for substandard materials, and helped Bangladesh improve
its share of the jute goods market. By 1980, the overall position of the
Jute industry had progressed sufficiently to justify a move to
project-specific involvement. 1/
26.     The Textile Industry.  The action programs under the IPCs addressed
short and medium term issues, including the need for greater managerial
autonomy and improved maintenance requirements. Although the progress was
slow initially, by FY77, progress on the operational and institutional
matters was adequate to justify broadening the focus to cover policy issues
(e.g. pricing, autonomy). In textiles as in jute, the Eighth IPC emphasized
the completion of ongoing action programs and focused on resolving two major
issues (i.e., capital restructuring and pricing policy) affecting production
efficiency and profitability. In the critical area of industry
profitability, GOB agreed to the implementation, by December 31, 1984, of an
annually phased program of loan conversion and cash infusions necessary to
give BTMC and its units a debt-equity ratio of 60:40. Under the program, GOB
converted Tk 334 million (US$21 million) of ADP loans into equity, and agreed
to make five annual cash payments to provide additional equity of about
Tk 860 million (US$55 million) by December 31, 1984 (see Annex 10, para 2).
The total cash infusion was subject to adjustment to reflect any after tax
profits or losses earned by BTMC units during the period to December 3-,
1984. GOB aizo agreed to provide a yearly minimum infusion equal to the
amount required to service BTMC units debt to BSB, BSRS and the commercial
banks on term loans in accordance with agreed repayment schedules.
27.     As indicated in GOB's statement of policy on the textile industry
(submitted to IDA in 1979), its pricing policy had the objectives of:
(i) providing yarn and cloth to low income groups at a fair and equitable
price; and (ii) providing BTMC with a rate of return on equity (defined as
1OX after tax) necessary to remove the need for any form of subsidy payment
from GOB. Although these objectives were acceptable to IDA, the policy
implementation and its implication appeared uncertain. 2/ Therefore, the
Eighth IPC focused on the implementation of the required pricing adjustment
that -was a condition to negotiating the Credit. In the preceding period,
1/ Credit 1023-BD Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project.
2/ On the basis of an adjusted equity (i.e., assuming a 60:40 debt/equity
ratio for current asset investment) BTMC required a FY79 after tax profit
of about Tk 65 million (actually a loss of Tk 35 million) which reflected
the need for an average price increase of about 8Z and a reversal of GOB
enforced price reductions in the previous year.



-9-
GOB increased the price of yarn by 17.7Z and cloth by 15Z in order to give
BTMC an after tax return of 10% on shareholders' funds. Even these
increases, due to rising raw cotton prices, were not sufficient to achieve
the rate of return by September 1980, as required under the Eighth IPC, and
on March 1, 1981, GOB increased the price further to achieve the required
rate of return.
28.     GOB/BTMC implemented the agreed action program although progress in
areas, such as training, introduction of a management information system and
improved pricing, was considerably behind schedule. Stability was restored,
making it possible to tackle the problems of raising productivity (through
BMR), increasing capacity (through the construction of new mills), and
developing the long term strategy necessary to improve the overall efficiency
and cost effectiveness of the industry. While progress in general was
satisfactory, there was still a need to monitor closely problem areas of
autonomy and pricing.
29.     Pulp and Paper Industry.  The Fourth IPC addressed issues affecting
the four mills comprising the pulp and paper industry, including short term
problems of production and the lack of a long term development strategy.
Since FY75, the physical condition of the older mills (Khulna and Karnapuli)
had deteriorated to such an extent that major rehabilitation expenditures
were needed immediately. Bilateral and international agencies provided
either technical or financial assistance for BIR to all four mills: Khulua,
Karnapuli, Sylhet Pulp and Paper, and North Bengal. Studies to identify BMR
requirements for the mills were completed and specific proposals for
financing were presented to IDA and other agencies. However, on one of the
key elements of the program-the preparation of a long term development
program for the industry-a consultant had been engaged for the -work required
but no substantial progress was made. Given the uncertainty of resource
availability for the industry's long term development, IDA stressed the need
for such a study under the Eighth Imports Program Credit; the study was
completed by GOB in December 1980. All actions agreed with IDA in connection
with preceding program credits were initiated and most of the objectives
achieved, although in some instances much later than originally planned.
The Credit and Export Development
30.     The Export Development Program (EDP) was initiated by the EPB in
cooperation with the IDA's Industrial Sector Mission (1978) and with the
assistance of a team of advisors from the International Trade Center (ITC).
The EPB prepared the Action Program in 1978 and has been influential in
establishing the program as a central framework for developing Bangladesh
exports. The Seventh IPC included the Program as part of the focus. The EDP
formed the basis for important covenants in the Eighth Credit, covering such
areas as institution building, policy and procedures, and product studies.
31.     Export Promotion Bureau (EPB).  The EPB made considerable progress in
strengthening its organization, completing export and market studies and
strengthening the export infrastructure. From late 1978, a three-tier system
has operated in Bangladesh export development. This was created by adding to



-10-
the Export Coordination Unit a Central Task Force (CTF) and nine Sectoral
Task Forces for product groups, for which the EPB served as secretariat under
the close guidance of the National Export Council. In this system, better
cooperation between various agencies 1I/ has improved the ability to tackle
specific problems of exporters at a micro level. Also improvements have been
made in the reporting system, particularly regarding information on
non-traditiona; exports, e.g., leather, handicrafts, marine products and
agricultural and forestry products.
32.     In the process of institution-building during the late 1970s, and
early 1980s, the EPB took an active role in influencing changes in export
policies and procedures and continued to improve export information as an
input in adjusting policies and procedures and as an aid in monitoring and
coordinating export performance. With its training program in fields of
export production, market research, trade information and statistics, and
other marketing services, fairs, and publications, the EPB coatributed
substantially to the country's export development effort. As a result,
significant awareness of the importance of export promotion and a relatively
high degree of cooperation among government agencies on matters relating to
exports were achieved; and an institutional structure capable of providing
promotional services for export activity was established. What remained to
be further strengthened was the effective implementation of policy measures.
33.     While the EPB as an export institution was approaching a state of
"institutional maturity", manpower constraints in implementation remained,
which limited its efficiency in export services. The difficulties of
recruitment and retention of senior staff at existing salary levels were
compounded by the continuLe' use of Civil Service personnel to fill many
lower-level posts. These assignments did not usually last long enough to
generate any personal involvement in the functions of the institution or in
the possibility of a career in export development. Also, the staffing
problems of the EPB were closely related to its high degree of dependence on
foreign advisers. Resolving the problems required a development program for
the local staff and revision of salary scales and conditions in order to
attract and retain a capable, permanent staff. However, to date such a
program has not been implemented.
34.     Export Incentives.  Prior to the Eighth IPC in FY80, the XPL scheme
provided additional import licenses (i.e., Import Entitlement Certificate,
IEC) to exporters on the basis of the f.o.b. value of exports. While the
scheme served as an incentive to exporters in general, it tended to reward
exporters irrespective of export products and import contents. In fact, the
scheme neither encouraged the efficient and intensive use of domestic
resources, nor provided adequate incentives for diversification of the export
range. Added to this weakness, the scheme did not allow adequately for
differential market penetration costs. As part of the EDP, therefore, GOB
agreed to resolve these weaknesses in the XPL scheme. EPB proposed to use
1/ The CTF consists of the Joint Secretaries of Industry and Commerce,
Agriculture, Fisheries, Shipping and Jute, the Director General of
Industries, one representative from the Bangladesh Shipping Corporation,
Bangladesh Biman, National Board of Revenue, and the Bangladesh Bank.



-11-
the outcome of the Bank-financed DRC (domestic resource costs) study by
Boston University to rationalize the scheme and revamp the rates so that the
entitlement would be a uniform rate applicable to value added from domestic
resources (i.e., net foreign exchange earned) but giving weight to such
factors as labor intensity, new products, and domestic resource-based
products. Under the Eighth Credit, changes in the XPL scheme were made by
shifting the basis for awarding XPLs from gross f.o.b. value of exports to a
net foreign exchange earnings criterion. The revised scheme also
incorporated an expansion of entitlement to provide facilities aad
regulations pertaining to the use of foreign exchange for business travel,
market development and product promotion. To promote labor intensive export
industries, export manufactures largely based on indigenous resources, and
export product diversification, the XPL scheme has evolved over the last few
years into a system in which exportable commodities eligible for XPL facility
are grouped into three categories; namely 40%, 60% and 80% XPL. Under the
new system, all non-traditional exports automatically qualify for a rate of
40% and can move into 60% or 80% categories depending upon domestic value
added content. Accordingly, Import Entitlement Certificates are issued,
which permit exporters to import some of their production inputs directly
and/or to sell part of their foreign exchange earnings in the free
(secondary) foreign exchange market at a premium which usually is
substantially higher than the official exchange rate.
35.     Among the available export incentives, the XPL is the most effective
instrument which provides access to imported inputs necessary for export
production and also additional earnings to exporters. This incentive has
had a positive impact on the growth of non-traditional exports. These
(excluding naptha, furnace oil and bitumnan) increased by nearly 17% during
the two year period, FY80-FY82 -- in value terms from US$138.3 million to
US$161.4 million; and by volume index, a 33.7% increase; during the same
period total exports at current prices decreased from US$722.2 million to
US$630 million, by about 13% in the same period. The decline was largely
due to the depressed export prices for raw jute and jute goods. The share of
non-traditional exports also expanded from 19% of the total exports in FY8O
to about 26% in FY82.  As an incentive to promote non-traditional exports,
GOB through commercial banks provided export credit at a concessicnal rate
of 12% as against commercial rates of 14-16% in 1981-82. It was fuarther
reduced to 11.5% in 1982-83. In addition to continuous adjustment of the
incentives, the promotion of non-traditional exports requires that clear
signals are given to investors to channel resources into such activities.
36.     The duty drawbacks system allows a repayment of duties paid on
imported inputs for export products. In terms of benefits to exporters, the
system had long been criticized due to the cumbersome and time-consuming
administrative procedures. To expedite and simplify the process, the EPB
in FY80 proposed the introduction of a flat rate of duty rebate based on a
periodic calculation of the average percentage value of customs and excise
duties and sales tax for a product or product category. In addition, for
certain fast moving items such as ready-made garments, the EPB proposed a
"notional" system of duty payment. This system required the recording of
the raw and packaging materials imported by an exporter and establishing a
suspense account for the duties and taxes payable thereon. Liability to pay
the amounts in suspense would be removed on proof of exports. The system was
further improved by the introduction of a bank guarantee system to underwrite



-12-
the exporters' liability. The implementation of the modified duty drawback
system has expedited the repayment process, reduced the costs involved in
delays (i.e., tied up working capital), and hence become much more effective
as an export incentive.
37.      Export Strategy.  On the basis of studies carried out under the
Seventh IPC, GOB/EPB prepared a draft strategy statement for FY81-FY86. The
draft, which was reviewed during negotiations for the Eighth Credit, sets out
guidelines for implementing a national program of actions accelerating export
growth during the Second Five Year Plan FY81-FY85 (SFYP). The Credit
Agreement (Section 3.10) required that the Export Strategy be incorporated in
the SFYP document. The main objectives of the Export Strategy were: (a) to
provide a basis for a significant acceleration in the growth of existing
exports, both major and minor; and (b) to create and develop new exports of
agricultural and industrial products.  Furthermore, the strategy focuses on
product and supply development, particularly for non-traditional exports. In
the strategy, export growth targets were set somewhat ambitiously for the
SFYP period, FY81 to FY86: total export was projected to reach the level of
Tk 15.3 billion with an average growth rate of 6.2% p.a. (at current prices).
To meet the target, potential export products and related development
coastraints were identified, supply requirements were estimated, and
marketing and promotional plans were prepared. As discussed above,
supporting policy and institutional adjustments have progressed since the
late 1970s. In the following section, the export growth targets set by the
Export Strategy Statement are examined in the context of the export
performance since FY78.
38.     Export Peformance.  Analyzing the performance of individual export
products prior to the Eighth IPC period (FY78-FY80) reveals that the export
growth in this period was mainly the result of some favorable price changes
which hid a mixed and relatively weak performance. Export volume declined in
jute goods and tea in FY78-FY80, and in raw jute in FY80. In other exports,
value increased in leather, frozen food and newsprint and was mixed in paper,
naptha and furnace oil. The total value of exports grew 24.4% between FY74
and FY79 and 18.5% between FY79 and FY80. However, almost all the net
increase was attributable to the sharp price increases for jute goods and a
large increase in the proceeds from naptha and furnace oil. Without these
two factors, neither of which promised long-run benefits, exports would have
stagnated. In the following years (FY81 and F82) a sharp decline in export
prices of raw jute, jute goods, leather and fish caused export earnings to
stagnate, despite a substantial growth in export volume. Export prices fell
and led to a 2% reduction in export earnings in FY81 and further 12% decline
in FY82. The terms of trade deteriorated by over 30% during this two-year
period.
39.     Over the past several years, GOB has pursued the export development
objective and taken a number of measures to encourage exports, especially of
manufactures. Export growth, however, has not responded strongly to these
initiatives. Between FY76 and FY83 exports, in constant FY73 dollars,
increased by only 15%, largely due to the problems faced by jute.
Non-traditional exports, although growing rapidly from a small base, have not
grown sufficiently in volume to offset the decline in earnings from jute and
jute goods. There have clearly been a number of minor successes (such as



-13-
ready-made garments, fruits and vegetables), but their cumulative impact has
been limited.
40.     Recent export performance suggests that achieving the projected
export growth requires further support through policy changes, i.e.,
incentive and procedural adjustment to encourage exports, especially
non-traditional exports, since export production is more risky and more
demanding in terms of product specifications, quality control and delivery
and procedural requirements than production for the local market. Among the
measures aad instruments which GOB's short-term export promotion strategy
should take into consideration are the exchange rate and the impact of taxes
and subsidies. Since, with very few exceptions, Bangladesh exports face
strong competition from other countries, it is essential to enhance the
competitive capability of the economy by frequent review of the exchange rate
and price developments in Bangladesh relative to competing countries.
V. CONCLUSION
41.     The Eighth IPC, as with all the previous Credits, was approved to
help Bangladesh ease a serious (and continuing) balance of payments
constraint. Thus, one important objective of the Credit was to provide the
country with quick disbursing funds for the import of industrial components,
chemicals, raw materials and spare parts to enable selected high priority
industries to reach their full production potential. The other objective was
to monitor progress in implementing the measures agreed under previous IPCs
to improve the efficiency and financial viability of the jute, cotton textile
and paper industries, and expand the Export Development Program, initiated
under the Seventh Imports Program Credit.
42.     Under the Credit, specific measures were implemented for key
industries co improve capacity utilization through mill maintenance and spare
parts availability; to improve financial performance through capital
restructuring and pricing policy adjustments. Initial steps were also taken
towards formulating long-term development programs for the jute, cotton
textile and pulp and paper industries. Although progress had been slow and
not all of the problems of the jute and textile industries had been solved,
sufficient progress had been made in strengthening operations and financial
profitability to justify a move to a project specific involvement for future
operations in these subsectors. In the continuing policy dialogue between
GOB and IDA on export development issues, the Eighth Credit concentrated on a
medium-term export development strategy, export incentives, and their
administration. Since the Seventh and Eighth IPCs, the EPB as an export
institution has progressed considerably in strengthening its organization, in
improving export information and statistics to monitor and coordinate export
performance, and in catalyzing policy adjustments. On the policy side, the
IPCs have had a positive impact on specific issues addressed in export
promotion, namely, the modification of the XPL scheme and the simplification
of the duty drawback procedures. However, the impact has been limited on
overall exports of manufactures, for which industrial development is more
important. The present structure of industrial policies, controls,
procedures, duties and taxes is only weakly conducive to industrial
investment or efficiency. Such encouragement as the system offers tends to



-14-
be biased towards production for domestic rather than export markets.
Although the quick-disbursing nature of the IPC enables IDA's policy dialogue
to tackle specific policy and institutional issues for immediate results, its
very nature suggests that the IPC is perhaps not the best vehicle through
which IDA would effectively assist GOB's longer term development of exports
of manufactures.
43.     In 1982, policy dialogue led to GOB's introduction of the TIP Project
(Trade and Industry Policy Reform Program).  This was an important step in
recognizing and attempting to rectify the biases and perversities in the
present policies. The results of the TIP Project should help identify
policies and projects which will more effectively promote manufactured
exports. In view of Bangladesh's resource endowments, current world trade
conditions and growing protectionism in many countries, it is unlikely that
progress in export development will be rapid. However, in the longer term,
there are areas where substantial potential for the country's export growth
exists -- manufactured exports, such as leather products, ready-made
garments and textile products; processed goods, such as tobacco, fruit and
vegetables; and domestic gas-based industries, such as fertilizer. Future
export growth, therefore, will have to be generated by diversifying and
expanding non-traditional manufactured exports with strong policy support.
Toward such development, additional incentives (i.e., financial and
tariff/tax concessions), effective administrative arrangements for these
incentives, and measures to alleviate market constraints will have to be
considered in the future imports program credits and the GOB/IDA policy
dialogue.



THE EICHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
Balance a  Paynents (FY72-FY83)
(Us$ million)
1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975LZ6   1976177    97717U    1978/71   1979/2 0   1980/81   1981/82   1U21**
Merchandise export, f.o.b. _i         354        370        344        372       405         490        610       721        711        627       655
merchandise imports, c.i.f.          -780       -925      -1403      -1275      -875      -1349      -1556      -2372       2533      -2587    -2340
Trade Balance                        -426       -555      -1059       -903      -0          -859      -946      -1650        -1822    -1960    -1685
Services, net                          21        -11         21         -7       -29         -32        -27          4         15       -70       -75
- Interest on public debt            -          -8        -10        122      -29         -32        -38        -43        -42        -46       -69
- IMF servic, charges                -          -1         -4        -11      -15         -14        -13        -13         -8        -37       -43
- Other cervices                     21         -3         35         26        15          14        24         60         65         13        37
Private remittancee                    34         20         35         29        60         113        143       210        379        412       600
Current Account Balance              =2a       -S476      -1003       -881       439         2          83      -1436      -1428      -161       1161
Amortization of MLT debt               -1        -11        -21        -66       -30         -37        -57        -50       -50        -41       -89
IMF facilities, net                    75         35         6S         86        -9        -27        -43         21        155         49        72
C- Fund credit, noet)
(- Trust fund locns)
C- BDR allocations)
C- Other)
Aid disbursements, total              551        461        901        808       533         829       1030       1222      1147       1236      1350
F- Yood aid)                        (182)      (229       (382)     (314)    (122)        (178)      (179)      (374)      (194)      (231)    (275)
C- Commodity aid)                   (289)      (108)     (376)      (369)    (253)        (374)      (482)      (378)      (393)      (421)    (465)
C- Project aid)                      (80)      (124)      (143)     (125)    (158)        (277)      (368)      (470)      (560)      (584)    (610)
Other capital (incl.errors           -276          3        209         ..        26         -12         25        124       152        246      -146
& omissions)
Changes in reserves O/                 21         58       -151         53       -81          25      -124        118         24        128       -28
(- * increase)
Reserve level gS  (and of June)       173        lS        266        213       294         269       393        274        250        122       150
* Prelimary
**  Projected
M Merchandise imports are reported on a  hmed valuation basis, party f.o.b. and partly c i f.
/   Including cbanges in the valuation of recerves.
lJ Includina gold (national valuation)
Sources Planning Cooissionj Bangladesh Bank, IMF; and Bank, ClU 1983 and mission estimtes.



-16-                               ANNEX 2
BANGLADES!
THE EIGHTH InPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursements
(US$ million)
Cr. 980-BD
Actual
Proiected   Cumulative
FY80
First quarter                                           -            -
Second quarter                                          -            -
Third quarter                                            -           -
Fourth quarter                                          5.0         4.7
Total                                                 5.0         4.7
FY81
First quarter                                          10.0        22.6
Second quarter                                         10.0         6.9
Third quarter                                          10.0         5.2
Fourth quarter                                          5.0         3.0
Total                                                35.0        37.7
FY82
First quarter                                           5.0         -
Second quarter                                          5.0         2.1
Third quarter                                           -           2.7
Fourth quarter                                                      _
Total                                                10.0         7.6
Grand Total                                          50.0        50.0
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division



BANGLADESH
THE EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cumulative Diabursements
(US$ million)
Credits     FY74    FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83           Total
345-BD      34.5    14.4       1.1                                                                  50.0
450-BD       9.1    35.1       5.8                                                                  50.0
545-BD               36.5    35.3      3.2                                                          75.0
591-BD                        57.5    38.6    3.9                                                  100.0
676-BD                                21.3    34.8   18.7       0.2                                 75.0
752-BD                                        12.3    48.8      13.9                                75.0
866-BD                                                26.6      44.3    4.1                         75.0
980-BD                                                           4.7   37.7      7.6                50.0
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division



AMEX 4
- 18a -
NGLAUSsR
THE E T  MeORTS POGRAM CREDIT
PROJECT COMIPLTION REPORT
Credit Utilization
(US$ zillion)
Cr. 980-3D
Ceilina Actual
Includini: Rav materials, spare parts,
chemicals, components and packaging
materials for:
1.  Textile industry                                     25.0      11.3
2.  Paper and board industry                              5.0       2.6
3. Fertilizer industry (excluding
finished fertilizer)                                 10.0       9.7
4. Export-oriented industries
(excl. jute)                                         10.0       -
5.  Steel and foundry industry                           15.0       6.2
6. Chemicals and pharmaceutical
industry (excl. proprietary items)                   10.0       6.8
7.  Sugar industry                                        3.0       0.5
Construction Activities
8. Cement and rav materials for cement
manufacture including packaging
materials, spare parts and other
intermediate building materials                      15.0     12.9
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division



~~~~~ S 
BANCLADESH
THE EIGHTH IHPORTS PROGRA CREDIT
PROJECT COuPLETION RZPORT
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF PRFEIOUS IMPORTS PROCRAM CREDITS
(USS million, as of February 16, 1983)
FLrst    Second   Third    Fourth   FLifth    Fizth    Seventh  Eighth
(345-8D) (458-u0) (SIS-1D) (591-ED) (676-5D) (752-3D) ( 66-BD) (960-BDI Total
Agricultural Equipment          8.4        *         -                             *                  *          .*4
Diesel Fuel for Agriculture                                                                  a *  *  *  *  *   *  a  a
Pesticides                                 *         I         I         *         ^         *        I          *
Fert11izer. 6 Raw Haterials
for Fertilizer Hanufacture  5.5         2.2       9.0       4.1      10.0      4.4       6.8       9.7       51.7
Components, Chemicals, Raw
Haterial., Spare Parts,
Equipment and Packing
Haterlals fort
Jute Industry                    1.6      3.8       4.9       5.7       7.5       5.7       1.8                31.0
Textile Industry                9.8      11.4      18.6      50.0      28.5      27.9     30.6      11.3      188.1
Paper & Board Industry           0.9      2.9       6.5       0.6       1.2       5.6       5.2      2.6       2S.5
Food & Allied Products
Industry                      3.1       2.8                  I                  I *                 *         5.9
Cheomical & Pharmaceutical                                                                                                          F
Industry                      7.3       9.6       7.3      15.3      5.0       4.1       6.2       6.8       61.6
Sugar Industry                  0.3       1.0       0.9       0.8        *         *        A        0.5        3.5
Steel & Foundry Industry        0.5       7.3       9.6       8.7       3.0      15.S     17.0       6.2       67.8
Selected Export-Oriented
Industries                               *        0.7       0.9      2.0       0.7       0.5        -         4.8
ComercLal Vehicle Industry   6.3          3.4       2.7       2.7        *         *                  a        15.1
Small-Scale Industry             1.5      0,4       0.5                            *                            1.4
Construction Industry            1.3      4.3      14.3      11.2      17.8      11.1       6.9     12.9       79.8
Shipbuilding Industry            3.3      0.9        *                                       A *  *  *          4.1
Telecommunications Industry   0.2          *                                                 a *  *  *  *       0.2
Total                       50.0      50.0      75,0    100.0      75.o      75.0      75.0      50.0      550.0
SAMM     ..s       SON    ..n          u.... u.. .   . ..           5 .
*  not eligible.
/a SDRL converted into US5 equivalent using original exchange rates a
(i.e., I SDR a 1.3131 US$ for 1071-BD)                                                                                      #
Source IBRD, Disbursement. Divslion.



TIlE Ell711 1IMPORTS MCV UI CREDIT
130.WKC COIFLECTIOW 6810T
sInwAt or ITE AL ECOOtilC AS5s5A.  1971/72 - 1983/14
(ufs *lil;lqen
Feod Aid                    Co_alty Aid  la                    prel/et "I lb                        Total
amittV    DIsbenee                   It       Disbured           Comitted   DIb.rsee            Ctted            Dbrttd
Fiscal Teat                                              (FIoel
1911/72 /a         171,465        129,619           293,693        131,107          145,626          3,474           611i,e4           210,600
(41,866)                       (155,986)                        (143,152)                         (341,004)
1912/73            238,712        3s2,552          302,120         266,906          324,441         79,964           516,333           553,444
(16,.066)                       (169,198)                        (388,609)                         (614,893)
1973/14            155,152        226,745           171,952        108,206          224,200        124,371           551,304           461,328
(44,493)                       (232,944)                        (486,132)                         (744,869)
1914/15            461,044        382,280           419,351        375,563          390,61S        143,451         1,270,190           901,294
(123,271)                       (214,532)                        (734,596)                       (1,134,405)
1915/76            240,752        3133,43           360,685        369,200          363,053        125,541           94,690            S0,224
(10,436)                       (246,213)                        (972,106)                       (1,290,171)                                 0
1916/11            143,14.        121,560           304,146        252,938          297,692        15S,584           744.961           553,062
(72,129)                       (319,42S)                     (1,111,216)                        (1,502,770)
19?1/76            138,615        117,844          426,049         374,286          601,615        216,466         1,166,7"            023,596
(33,100)                       (311,138)                     (1,436,625)                        (1,840,913)
1976/9             )30,651        179,092           599,438        482,512          689,270        348,370         1,789,345         1,029,974
(154,665)                       (468,114)                     (1,957,525)                        (2,600,704)
1399/60            270,022        314,487           283,346        317,866          623,252        469,896         1,178,620         1,222,149
(50,000)                       (395,594)                     (2,110,681)                        (2,546,475)
1980/81            202,672        194,072           154,612        393,023        1,062,061        340,121         1,639,825         1,147,216
(58,600)                       (357,994)                     (2,632,641)                        (3,049,064)
1983/12            216,100        230,500           491,499        421,353        1,233,526        584,275         1,943,125         1,236,1t2
(46,400)                       (427,589)                     (3,282,092)                        (3,756,0862)
1962/63            248,350        215,450          464,360         4531,86        1,005,710        638,213         1,738,440         1,345,528
(39,300)                       (460,104)                     (3,649,589)                        (4,148,993)
1963/64            227,900        240,000           526,000        470,000        1,150,000        100,000         1,903,900         1,410,000
(21,200)                       (516,104)                     (4,099,519)                        (4,642,693)
/a lceludes cash aid,
I nludes technlcal assietance.
t Data for 1911/12 reier to the rarfod fer  Decembet IJ, 1971, to Jos 30, 1972.
Iotet  The data ebeov  In paresthesea ledleate th  asma* l closing pipelime (i.e., ce_itted aid notliet   disbursed),
Sourcem   inIstry of finnes, luteriaI Usa re.ees Division.
R ~ ~~~                                                        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  5



- 21 -
ANU 7
mm ED=y nwocs FRaG         w R
PRJET COPETO mgrw
mAien OF INNUSTAL PRODCTION 197374 - 2462,3
(1973174 - zooS
industrylproduct Gou              tightsl  C_           1973/74   1974/75   1975/74   u976n77  19776 /73    179   1973/U   190U   191/U2  19UQ3P
rod rdct,                          15                 100.00   104.55    102.03   133.1    160.79   13S.71   122.16    10al   173.92    167.14
rlub pro een                                       IEW-    67.91    l63.14   241.37    209.68    251.78   145.74         U82.1    36.40    73.78
a      Flor  dIles                      0.43               150.00    102.3b   110.90    90.90    95.42    90.63    102.40    37A0        54.71    2.31
aaree                            0.59              100.00   104.36    91.4    96.74    121.74    144.37   185.57   190.73    210.55   189.05
Sqor 4  *loaes                  4.95               100       109.41    96.62    15.4O    196.16   146.57   104.71    1.63   212.32    2L03
Einle oils S tote                049               100A.      76.63    107.35   146.47   161.30    131.77   139.09   148.32   176.66   19O.s
vegetable abe.                   1.0a              100.00   l10.o0     93.01    113.75   127.51    1s5.36    12344      923    13.54    L59.92
TM                               2.55              100.00    100.79    106.54    L14.09    117.91   I4.62   125.54   137.09   130.67   123.13
*               spirit.              q.8e             100.00    113.26    L13.73    112.00   144.73    187.94   372.21              1.2 4723   204.83
te-elce1uLc Ieveage             0.42              100.00    98.50    64.69      79.74   106.24    144.62    119.9    135.4    139.0    ".35
then, Products                     13.65              100.00    67.73    100.10    97.80    100.69   1U13       117.21    125.33    132.70    121.92
*    ITetlls                            47.39              100.00    95.35    93.69      92.29    105.51    104.34   104.92    114.35    109.91    112.57
5-' atextiles                   n37                 iwwm                TE.-uIT   U=g    *ui=    TuXr   inv             To=    xw    Uring-
Jute safaccetw g               24.27              100.00    67.54    95         96.22    1009.7    100.85    105.38   114.80    114.32    114.13
by. 4 other oyatbotic           0.55              100.00    76.51     57.11    66.17    41.25    95.24    34.9    7062          4G.32    3107
tetile
Popor end taper Produts             0.95              10000   1142    80.58         95.15    125.63    12480   135.37    124.19   135.68    99.0
raper                           OM                Too       128.33    65.44    114.05   130 .!        5 1 35.25    frUE1  137.46   I 'LE
MaWeprio                        0.29             l10.00   106.76      75.76     55.13    101.43   12J.97    14.05    114.94    164.06   100.23
Particle boon    heniboord      0.14              100.00    101.64    72.50    107.79    131.14    95.05    120.79    77.94    107.58      8.6
Cbaiesle  ad Chmical Products    1o.44                100.00    69.10    108.62    114S.5    103.95   13697    155.32    164.00    161.62   1I2.47
OWmEMs fGrtloLsro              4.37              100.00    36.93    115_11    11iO60    6.0    123.71   15030    43 9"    143.40   157.46
-ctt tIdustrial checicalm       0.17              100.0D    94.06    30.59    75.59    95.9    170.56    91.79    93.02    71,22    61.49
rtinat. urniebee. lacquers     0.22              l1D0.0      59.39    74.65     31.44     93.83    133.17   156.91    115.75   118.37    122.37
Hedicione I phSumcoctisls       2.34              100.00    97.66   105.72    112.40   122.36   148.45    177.28    190.56   243.62   222.15
tsifecateo  * leectclidea     0_23               100.00    96459    53.41    146.60    169.56    175_0    84.10   374.95   245.91    155.41
match"                          2.06              100.00    100.37    110.32    121.90   139.14    14.98    150.56   142.47   190.65   205.07
rorroleu  Product                   1.42              100.00   232.03   253.31    297.69   239.61    329.7    334_04   332.97   312.69   228.9
faow-4tall1c NIsrasls               0.74              100.00   213.42   237.01    484.18   531.61   509.19   534.41    536.43    SILOS    693.19
mt1              lb5         nri 100.4         nr1 n01_y 132_U       1      ISfLIb   113.86   163.13   n_b2
Cent                            0.58              100.00   24.57    300.92   59.67    641.U0    606.29    bJ_19   650.46   615.41   579.69
Ira.nd steel                       12.09              100.00    104.53    128.41    163.5    155.63   19433    176.37    194.61    164.91    64.07
Mae-Eectric Nuchuiery               0.46              100.00   230.76    60.95    3.46        47.9     74.72    219.54   341.34    303.96 1.959.91
Electric Macblear                   0."               100.00   117.63    134.47    181.76   272.64   314.11    360.53   29643   321.63   307.53
Electric Maten                  0_12              100.00    120.32    64.59    59.06    53.75    32.06       6b.27    74.17    62.27   100.Ig
Electric faee                   0.37              100.00   133.48   119.56   149.37    198.11   234.3    248.97    249.16    290.65    306.91
Lape 4 bulb                     0.02              100.00    1139.00    126.00    11.50   237.0    262.40    225.35   310.71   379.00   418.13
Comictions equipment            0.27              100.00   101.89   154.77    25S.44   413.11   45.45   489.35    323.49   322.60   47.43
Coble, 4 ir_e                   0.11              100.00    92.46   212.34    308.18      23.32   503.02    563.98    1.8l6    204.53   165.97
Tr_an port l t~9                    0.28              100.00    100.92    78.2S    162.73    113.71    111.69    141.18   125.18   114.93    50.39
Fp 0_TOO.-D100.00  ICWfl              3       _0.   5051 1.5 48.36    14.20  5   132.94    17 7.43    178.27   132.04
Mgotr vehIcle                   0.15              100.00    53.67    30.20    167.36    37.51    50.42    78.77    98.32    70.94    13.40
IL      2LI7cI_& & rickehe,             0.09               100.00   160.11   162.11    160.56   22J4.9    237.32    248.78    146.67    160.13    75.80
Other                               0.33             I10.OO    6'.45    301.19    143.92      77.65    81.90    93.31    67.69    58.32    96.51
Jute belleg 6 pressing          0.30              lW          8. 58_53   301.46    149.46    75.03    61.59    67.44   66.98    57.55    86.74
tubber product.                 0.01              100.00    122.05   143.J1    11349    122.63    58.29      56.53    42.23      54.91    45.52
Ic  ek                         0.02               100.00    58.50    73.00    76.00    95.00    93.36    91.34    81.00    71.50    26.65
Ieds of NO=ftac  Prodctlmo    100.00 (97-29) lo    1D0.00    97.55   104.93   113.68    124.61    132.42    132.47   143.21    143.13   136.11
Public _ctor                   7j5 (74.7)-    100.00    99. 97   305.40    114.02   1t5.23    15            1u6.    136.67
Private *ector                 22.30 (22.50)      100.00    69.53    103.36   112.54    122.54    145.22   151.07   164.27
Lies of Molue Froductlue /b           ... ( 0-29)        10.D0     57-58    92.46    105.30    111.09    123.25    135.19   14-.93    177.21   176.31
laden of Electricity troductIon lb     . ...  ( 242)     100.00    104.48    115.35    127.59    1521_7    167.61    135.9    ZIII1  239.70   267.99
lader of leduetrial rodectgl..         ... (100.00)      100.00     97.60    105.15    113.99    125.21    133.Z3   133.77   144.83   143.56   139.44
*-- cot oppllcable.
p_ pr lS_ity.
lo  Uelts sboen ia preotbese- apply to the overall lint    f iadetcnlal production.
7i;  atirey ins ne pullc euctor.
Mate:  ihe  inex of -afxfctuinig production covers pproultely 93Z of volue added In large and edtwecale aenufecteriog.
Eacluded ore.  oueg other rs. tbe  nfecturig of footuear, leather, furniture and nen-ferrune  etal producte  printing
en publisblng. as well a. *1 eIml and cotm4We tolucries (whtch include epineilrg. dyei  and hendloom weavig).
Soree: hng  desk Ureeu of Statistice.



*ONI  PM  gprw   Psr~O :UT4&    ssl                           t T_ WQ
-qc alo       Jo11     -m  I .q1 tit - (amls. 5u3u15) -%Is .tdog' A. opq a :u tacse  - -gsa -u  a. .tac I  s
_ Iu  am.i  lbg1    -M _19uq.- -131 --              at-   1.5      . - pu_rn  3  .s.mus s-uus   -         s  e1
sS.,..' a S '.a-  a. susuds - I_K-   3si.5iu5 ..*su.5M    l.t31    I -j Z  Am p.us_u  *s-urnu.a    1d    ,-x ri
UU - GaOA  t_  a*a 315 _   -1* _3-I .efift;  us puu.. v- _                 _ 1    a.l u
-_u *e*as -1  1                     a. amucaud *    u- 1 -.
, ,, _t_ ^|~~~~~~.-W"<.- J. eas Cs- 36P11i
E. -' ec,a usp31u-.1 
*1s4s11 -Mail -q1u  p- f 11j -*   _           _   - sees :al         aesc s  O S 1 t1 u U
-Au-. *t-ud lu5331 -E  15111l l33   * u-isa                    _                -4 *       -elu  -         S   .1- ITO _L
4            er-X        tftta       Z~~~~~~~~~~~RISE  *C-Ell    ft-C3   uIC-3-      (11-1-      (19-11      (110.)      G-VO          C..,)                       1s. *5 *_b leeoD
od'scz         lt  9w'1%            f '%t       wo'    *      vE l *      'SLI      SIM&          ll         W"t          o'l '1eal    CM - cuvo  afe -1g*- _I.e.  s aft&
1  7us  FUZ ~~~~~~Snl  7sm       7uz          ~        ~          t-scpu u-u2 -
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~t.s  .3 -   
01.1-9      Ie*s-       cm-l)       (c-l        cU-I        (c*c-       MZT          014 cl*t-I  (re-S (eec)  (.(as Cup)   I-m   a-1 *                               ..u    I-u
caI'c       uueZ   S      tw   ' > (5          aON=         tS-t          ltK              XWI  _       -illW    C l      a'        catt   -P     .S..   ul d         _  o
easm    murn            "&ICa       aW          WE-W I                  U-t         uS", 5      sesw  * (1eu              a-ac         cow -u-s-) r-m    x_a         -' -. --  u
_s-c        *IWa E _       -c I       a-hag       a-ics    arig           else      gestran       "gon        56o    -_ 1                                 s  ts 7  "_"-' "
Mt-i        &a4Z        SCuZ        Sat    211              (tCa,t   lt*Zt          gt'Ztl ab    rie t-      w-ct         Otrt           ca  -mt U-u-' -us            5  -.
US-iC         WEC       cmSI        Ole-t baw   *sti*iE     ssZ llst 55t-t5              rt *5 Za-sa        (Au-ct       Uset                                C    lttl '11 1-
mum  im .u* ...asal.-z  -u
__.Nll      1,6t01S   '    tni z    tavie t    tmz          "ri         even        log sail  atr3M    7lt t                              m  -t--el  -g-
age-t         Mitis     cm, *it     am-tel    tea           a-ac        t-i         siow Ires    ice-s      rn-i zc      ewmct                               *
.:i  c-c  ua  c-a      cm          En  .       !:           !7t         u:I         c-a        teat           cm  *:iu      -n..   s r' v.sa . _s _.
.   ..   ..   ..  ..   .-     .           *-         *-                es.,     - c*-u-  miaJssl   ns  55-a
mg.6                                        E.G5. emI) 5u314.5
a-c         s-c         s-      rs-             s-fa       ic-          u-it       us-c         i-a         cs          s-utCe  lcm    13W
0-r           _ll       GINs        -r           t         sOrs                     W t'f       s;s             l        i-m                             a"se -10-)
tm          ac1ac        M.         tSIB-t      curc        aur:        MISS        eui         os'-        cart,       ea-ct           (so t1-14 Uw s-m   auuu    -S   ua
rn-ms        rGn,e    arssA         as-s        0           c-IVsa      msIL   * c-ea-   riG-s              it'lle      Is-t                            Clt"its  313d4-s V in
'eK       arni        mwac        owesl    las-si         ase s-t mg- n                        We.         Isa-l        *l UCtic                              _1 SAL e.
m-.e        sen -         llu cuac       l oszs t mu-s      src         mu-I        cwm         eKc-        ee-to       e4u                                 (1ssm, itt-) s-a
9;W
mu-ic       ms-u:       sm-ce       m%U-s       eec-c       at-u        usl         stic-s      ace-c       eeI-*       Oct-st          (sue -give s u -lu' a-ee uS  u1.a
-IcnY      at-r        grin        us-ttc      crizC       at-         WC"c        st          ag-ccc      st-Icc      asrtag,            *u.eIISl -.s n -g
elm         s-sat       a-sic       rn-n      Ecuas       cact        ec1-mu        1-a1        a-r        rs-*t        a-lc                           Sc-em  mLe) b l*-u
em-es       am-as       mgD-rn      salgc    cell-sc        11c-,,      urn's        wee-       scm-6       -xlu        oct-st                              eisa -luu
aum          cma         e-e          sd        c-c         cutat        tIa-u       e-e         rn-etnc     as-cu       est-le         T          t  n ztuuuw *euCfu tz rs Is-uZ*
emecc       ct-t cc.    ctrec       ste         ittI        uees        c,          seac rscc nleerl                     ca-icc                           c-u lust) 31 -1a-
oeiues      muss        icc-us!         cl        c-sc,   t s-ti          u-c         rn-ag     citS"s'ale-ic             mc-cc                              cmp  - _-t.
loo                      eV    a *     rct t-   nc           wrmtr   Witt                                     bee          t          s         wox    r, atcrt  _ sl
got         O   "I      sw 1          glai        Zi          Wu                                tuzr I-C lle  tt't       OK-I                              1l *  a-lw__
ascc        %Wit  ttrn              cat           est   _mu-t           sec-eu      sw-mn        cu-ns      itt-ac       ce-u,             -Ia iss)    u54  Ia         1 us 
ars-icc     ilm         irt"        ic-se       crest       Ws-sitr t U-c        r s5Iet        s-recu      st-cs        eeee               ruusua) taM  Sil
mu-as,      et-&"        m-c        ta-cue    tas-c         cuea        eecz -u_        an si2t as            a uu         S-ac                           Cernm.) csitu-b
scrst       ge-,        pm-eelt    gt-c        lst           at-sre     gui         eel-ta       MISt        O           ZW-
gm-e        etc-s       g.- art        a r       ier-ac     Gm-,a       cn-ct       ia-r         t-al        IarL ct        t rtz. 11                  -i- tu-n_ooo us - n
_-c          a-u         ccic        u-a        se-at        lu-e         gm          rm         u-c         es-         s t-                             cu-iit    tMrv  zsum
awlet- t   amrsir    9gragt         sawa!         esl         u-Cit    4isz           s-rct      sit-l       cs-           a-icc                           (    or o al) A--ms'.
am-ms       eec,sa      swene        mssau      ms-sit      aU-ea         u-set     eec-i        et.-r1      ecu-sc      un-cu                                   li
swg         swag          WL        swig        own  rz o   fltwat                   OK-U   or sct            WV         M         z (n  i.    ggsrs. geeseea .1s t}--
as-lag   a-ms        _@         *_@zwtac-cat       s-t,                                                   as-tic     cs s   .uss lu-a
u-eat_ u-mu  s-tel  u-ac  a-rn       s-us        us_ac       a-us         sas l   c-ic            s-u i-ner                             m _)_ 5.nu
muia        ms-a        a_-a        Mt-st       muat        mtu,-"      rn-cc       sia-s        rmic        cit-it      am-at                               Ise itr ru J GE 
act-sic     e_-act      sct-ctu     sec-_:    cat-snt       m-nIt       ecu-c       ace-Cit    tmtat                     use-as:e(Sm rtsI  trnl _a t r        ets te  us  e-4
au- et          acct      cs-itt     asc        at             sc-         cig        ialtz       cc-sic      ceat          cl            (*M -tUaa W--           i  aiiMls
ha-Ssi    eeV      gSa-as    jgizaa-   it-area    17sccsn          =,Csac  wTeceaft       ees-K        crewiact       sea-us--tcae) _u, bur-s
ae tic      mu-cu       rn-u          Kseeac    set-a       uc-e        curest       cwace       neatse      ma-ut       un-sic                             c-s M"s) 
.9     ~81F
aCs ews -    e               l                  ut
rn-eta,,s-aic           cs-at       ct-cia      al-rn      eu-ea          a a,                   s-mac -                 c u -;  --  -    :    '
XUOdI NOIZaldROO zIDrOla~
zzaau  iiVRou sixmoai uzuTu mm
uszarzouv



-23-
POOOT cammzz
V A,=t Or mF          lEWts   927   1983384
197V/73   1973/74   1874/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/7   1937i9s/0 1103                  9112      18/8       93
URaw Jute                         133.821   123.370    32,399   12.17v   114,143    96,134   143.134   143,51.0  118,6    301.692    Ito.=0   102,m0
SJute msefactarves                       135,064  i9&,,0z   201,185   177.645   173,474   244.380   215,336   334.424   357,033   233,502    304,000   320,000
jmute specialty Products                -         -         -         -         -         -     3.394     7,54      9,422     S,035      L2,000    14,00
teether 4 Imarher product.         16,193    15,326    24,276    30.192    37.975    45.014    75.403    65.581    56.3412   63.061    53,00      10.000
Frose. shrmps. flab & 2 eeagLa     3,061     4.188     2,693    10.600    14,953    19,2-92    34,307    37,047    39,950    52.311    72,000    74,000
Other fish products                 1,436     3,459     1.320       965       449     1,022     1,703       481     1.984     1.413       1.500     1.700
Spice., imc. tamrind 6 smem           475       516      238      1,792     1,343     1.39      1,274       61.3      222        ...                   -
Fruits & vwmtab1ae                      -        17        32       125       263       821       393       601     1.023     1,410
Tom                                 9,687    14,706    21,488    17.381    36,127    44.910    40,730    32.95L   40,672    37,933      46.000    70,000
tebecc                                  -         -        55        19        34         6         6                   is1    1.972
Dotal Issues                            -         -         -        46       17        .386    1,23        354       96        960
a"ev   La                             233       440        37       174       400     1.211     1.251       GM        1US
Cottan.waete                            -        17         9         .        17         7         -         z-        -
Cotta. yarn 6 threed watsm                        -         -         -       196        63        40        43       113
Kapok                                   -        33        24         1         -         3         -         -         -
Sugar-                                                 -         -              -    5,377          -         -        26         -
Ibissema                   -         3~ ~ ~~           ~~~~      ~~9  -  174  133  453  339   1.835     1.020     2,000         .-
aaL Cake                               32        66        45       104       304       329       427     1.045       536   1/2.420
tbeat & rice bran                       -         -        27       123     1,313       987     1,376       up      1,163   )
tLics                                                                                                                         5.680
Crude fmrrLlerm                       200       121       206       263       236       333       254       366       481       500
imioas casIngs                        127       178       263       238       260       117       166       141i      141
LiznerS mine                          659     1,313       363       583       551       810     3,378       626        63
TOCoSrt. & turtle meat & shll.          -         -         .         1        77       369       454       344       999     1,200
Unaewax                                 -        -          -         -        17       II1        68        63        se        65
TestLse,O lad.. elIk 6 silk muste       a        35        25         2        17         6       339       103       330       550
Ready-ada jeet                          -         -         -         -         6        68       103       651     3,242     7,000     11,000    33,000
Igeudicrafte                           39       III       452       646       906     1,744     2.349     3,208     3,448     2,300
Poteary & coir products                     -               1         3         -         3        73        12        72
Mood & f culture cpeta-                           -         -         -         -        34       606       344       280
smaboo 6 bmamboo products              -          1        31       326       231       273       376       367     1,236
Satokes                                           -         7        82       251         a         -         -  
Psip                                    -         -         -         -         2       G56        20         -9
Newsprint                           2,463     3,376     2,873     1,201     1,453     3,830     5.820     6 8,14    7,552     5,996      4.000     6,000
Paper                                 351       210       205       217       777     1.464       665     2,543       983        12
Merdaoard 6 pLrtIcle hoerd              2       127        55       139       183        99       297         5        52
12llophene                             -        34       108       252        26        48        28        132        s0
IPAYne                                239       343       226       413       392       512        65     1,433       614        -           .         .-
rearueceucl"cms & crude drugs           4        26       342       150        53        64       200       15         21
Clycerine                               -        33        78       167        96       168        36        44       330        ...-
Urea-                                             -             -          -              -                         9,564               10.000    17,000
AmaoegL  muLfate                                 45        54        19                                               741
dapatba                                 -         -     4,033     3,923     7.306     8,698     9,235    20,248    29,345    30,160     19,000    22,000
Furnae olL                            -         -          -         -     7,043     2,947         -     2,809    19,281    11,250      3,000-
-  -  -  -        -         -         -         -         -    ~~~~~~      ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~1,000  4,ooo 
VireS4 cablems                                             17        23       456       160     2,330     1,263        24
1. otnmra                            104       162       125       342       713       33.7      796       625       774   (3.200kCe  24,500    50,300
Total                             354,234   369.651   344.049   371,938  40,2   4899758   609.672   722,272  7!i!6fl  626.969    636.             7,000 -8,D
lo-lea than US$ 500.
.not avai.lable.
I& Includes akll Itaem for which detafle are "sochain separately.
sourco: zExot Promotion mcUare; Reugladeh flurea* of Statistics



COMNTS RECEIVED FROM THE BORROWER   - 24 -
-   -                                    ~~~~~~~~~~ANN13 10
AMinisty of Finne & Pluming
fidomEl Rucm  Divhis
Prom s Abdul JIlil ]IOn              Sh--4lb Nbt
Deputy Secretary.               DhAa-7
L*O. No W/I3*A1/10/84                          Dat....9Pbei1984.
Subject s kroject Completlon'Rep*rt an 8th IPO
(Credit number 980_wD)._
Desr i   Rwe,
Please rerer to World BankIs letter date& 19.7-1984
on the abovementioned subject.
Reference           We have been lnformed by the Nluintzy of Jut* &
is made
in PCR,    Textile that BJY  received !k. 500 uillio  as sas" Stfusion
v,-a. 24.
in 1979-80 and made payments to 333, 33 & Oesa*Ml 2 k.
This cash infiusion led to an im4vement in  D's liquidity
position in1980 adding to its profit for the year which
vms about Tk. 850 million after various appropriatio".
Besides, in 1980-81, BJMC received cash influslon of
Tk. 400 mllion against the provision of !k. 603.90 million,
in 1981-82 Tk. 314.1O million against the provlimo of
Tk. 600 milliono in 1982-83,?k. 234.70 millio and la
1983-84 Mr. 250 million against provision of equsl amounts
in the last two financial year. All thege funsd boon utiliaed
by BJMC for payment of loans to DUD, MRS & featMil hek.
It may be mentioned kere that 3JkC us not allocated
any funds under the 8th IPC and hence the Ninistry of tite
& Textile is of the view that in order to mIce a comprehen-
sive and meaningful evalustion of perforwmues f       undur
the 8th IPC, it would be proper to take their perfoemnoes
under various other credit progrmmes also into conslderation.
Reflected            They have also informed that they established e
in PCR,
Para. 25.    Jute Strategy Cell for the purpose of studJy1n  conditions
affecting Jute and Jute goods supplies and its prices
thereof and recommending a medium-term pricing and export
strategy for Jute and Jute goods and a study is also being
Contd.... P/2.



ANEX 10
Ministry of Rnance & Planning
Externml Resounma Divbion
S        -                     - 25 -              SW._B meo
C.-O No                        ..  .                    . . . ..
undertaken by then to identify problems of jute & Jute
goods for preparation of optimal jute policy and export
strategy with the funds provided under IDA A credlit.
Reference        Aa rega-ds capital re-stracturing programme of B1,
is made
in PCR,      Vinistry of Jute & Textile kase further informd that ADI
Para. 26.
Loan of !k. 33.40 crores was oonverted Into eqity w.e.f.
1.7-1979. The BIE got cash infusion of Ik. 18.68 orae e
in 1980-81, 1k. 25 orores In 1981-82, 1k. 15 oreres In
1982-83 and 1k. 20 crores in 1983-84. Besideo, an ADP Loan
of mk. 51.27 crores va alm oonverted into equity in
PT 1983-84.
Aa regards impleeantatlon of prioCng pelicy, the
BRI had already made upward revision on  prices of Tern
during 1982-83 end1983-84 to keep its uills in operation.
On Export Development Programme as has been highlighted
in the TOR, SPB has added that a very important incentive
e.g. concessional Dank finance for export wan emitted in
Reflected    the POR. They have also stated that exporter used to 6et
in PCR,
Para. 35.    export credit from commercial Maku during 1981-62 at 12%
as against commercial rate of 14-16% Ia 1982-83, the rate
of interest on export credit was further reduced to 11.5%
for export of non-traditional item. 1PB has, however,
expressed the view that the main constraint in the export
sector is still identified an the lack of product and
suDply development. Por exmort development, it is, therefore,
necesesary that long-term development assistance be provided
Contd ... *P/3.



ANNEX 10
Ministrt of Finance & Panning
Extemal Roum  Dsion
- 26 -              Shw.angle Nagr
me                                             D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~haka.-7
a       D-0. No                                         Dat 
PCR, Para.42  to the country through a sequence of Imports Progrsmme
states it
as one of   Credits to be chanellsed to opecflo expert promefti
alternative
approaches.   projects.
We shall be glad if you kindly tranamit our above
views to. the Operation & Rvluation Department of your
Headquarters in Washington.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Abdul Jalil 1iSX)
Kx. Roger Rowe,
Chief of Xission,
W.B. Bisdeft Xt selon in alae,
222, Jew Bakaton,
Dhake.



