Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2664-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
January 22, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
In August 1979 the Bangladesh Taka was officially devalued
relative to the Pound Sterling, to a rate of Tk 34.7 to the Pound. Since
then the Taka exchange rate has been determined through a basket of major
currencies, with the Pound Sterling as intervention currency. Consequently,
the Taka-US dollar rate has been subject to change. The rates below have
been used throughout this report except when otherwise stated.
US$1         =   Tk 15.5
Tk 1         =   US$0.065
Tk 1 million     US$64,516
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCIC  -    Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BJMC  -    Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BMR   -    Balancing, Modernizing and Rehabilitation
BSB   -    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS  -    Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BTMC  -    Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
CBS   -    Central Bureau of Statistics
CIDA  -    Canadian International Development Authority
CFTC  -    Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
ECL   -    Economic Consultants Ltd.
EEC   -    European Economic Community
EPB   -    Export Promotion Bureau
KfW   -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
GOB   -    Government of Bangladesh
ITC   -    International Trade Center
NBR   -    National Board of Revenue
ODA   -    United Kingdom's Overseas Development Administration
SIDA  -    Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP  -    United Nations Development Program
UNIDO -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANNEXES
I.   Economic Development Data
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations as of December 31, 1979
III.   Supplementary Data Sheet
IV.   Production Trends of Selected Industries
V.   The Performance and Prospects of Proposed IDA Assisted Industries
VI.   The Status of Past Action Programs.
VII.   The Jute Industry
VIII.   The Cotton Textile Industry
IX.   The Export Development Program
X.   Export Performance - FY77-FY80
XI.   Utilization of Previous Imports Program Credits
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their olicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authorization.



BANGLADESH
EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:              US$50 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Purpose:             To provide foreign exchange for the import of industrial
components, chemicals, raw materials and spare parts to
enable selected high priority industries to reach their
full production potential. This proposed credit will
monitor progress in implementing the measures agreed under
previous imports credits to improve the efficiency and
financial viability of the jute, cotton textile and paper
industries, and expand the export development program,
initiated under the Seventh Imports Program Credit.
Estimated
Disbursements:                             ----- US$ Millions ------
IDA FY               FY80        FY81      FY82
First Quarter            -            10        5
Second Quarter           -            10        5
Third Quarter            -            10        -
Fourth Quarter           5             5        _
Annual Total             5            35       10
Cumulative Total         5            40       50



- ii -
Recommended                               Average Estimated    Maximum Amount of
Categories                               Annual Imports         the Credit that
and Ceilings:       Category               FY80-FY81          Can be Withdrawn
$ Million              $ Million
Industry: Raw
materials, spare
parts, chemicals,
components and
packaging mate-
rials for:
1.   Textile Industry         120                    25.0
2.   Paper and Board
Industry                15                     5.0
3.   Fertilizer Industry
(excluding finished
fertilizer)             15                    10.0
4.   Export-oriented
Industries
(excluding jute)       10                    10.0
5.   Steel and Foundry
Industry                70                    15.0
6.   Chemicals and
Pharmaceutical
Industry (excluding
proprietary items)      80                    10.0
7.   Sugar Industry             5                     3.0
Construction Activities
8.   Cement and raw
materials for cement
manufacture including
packaging materials,
spare parts and other
intermediate building
materials               40                    15.0



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-4ENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED EIGHTH
IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$50
million, on standard IDA terms, for an Eighth Imports Program. The purpose
of the Credit will be to provide foreign exchange to help finance imports of
materials and spare parts required by high priority industries.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Current Trends and Devel-
opment Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD), was distribul:ed to the Executive Directors
on December 15, 1978. The most recent economic mission to Bangladesh was in
October 1979; its report will be distributed early in 1980.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent in December 1971, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, and much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by
the needs to fashion a national government out of a provincial administration,
to establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry, trade,
and banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry to the changed market
conditions.
4.        The first years of independence were difficult.  Bad harvests in
1972-73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. Bangladesh's terms of trade
worsened considerably while the production of jute, the predominant export,
stagnated. Inflation, declining real wages, labor unrest and political
instability added to the troubles. Relief, rehabilitation and the consolida-
tion of Government authority were unavoidably the paramount concerns of policy
makers in the early and mid-1970's.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater poli-
tical stability, signal a significant shift in Bangladesh's circumstances
and brighten somewhat its economic prospects. The present time can be charac-
terized as a period of consolidation of the country's economic recovery from
the shocks of the early 1970's. This period has afforded planners and policy
makers an opportunity to focus anew on the longer-term needs of development.
In recognition of the need for a fundamental reorientation of policies, the
Government wisely chose to delay a new Five Year Plan by two years. The
current Two-Year Plan (FY79-80) has given GOB officials time to consider the
development strategy and policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year
Plan beginning in July 1980.



- 2 -
Recent Developments and Short-Term Prospects
6.        From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial
law and without a parliament. In elections held in February 1979, some 29
political parties and groups contested 300 seats in the National Assembly.
Roughly two thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party
headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who had previously been confirmed as
President in an election held in June 1978. Martial law was lifted following
the convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, and a new cabinet was
appointed at that time.
7.        The year FY78 (July 1977-June 1978) was a relatively good one for
the Bangladesh economy. Mostly as the result of a record grain crop (13.1
million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly 8%
in real terms, following a 2% rise in FY77. But the experience of the last
eighteen months -- and particularly of CY1979 -- has again demonstrated the
vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy. During this period, the economic
scene was to a large extent dominated by the consequences of unfavorable
weather conditions, including droughts and floods. These conditions affected
adversely both the foodgrain crop (which comprises nearly 40% of GDP) and the
size and quality of the jute crop; they also had repercussions throughout the
rest of the economy. Inflation, which was aggravated by the shortfall in food
production and consequent rapid rises in rice prices, increased to a current
rate of about 17% while rates of growth in GDP and real incomes fell consider-
ably. On the positive side, however, there has been: a continuing strong
performance of the construction sector; improved budgetary performance; a
substantial increase in development expenditure; the emergence of stronger
balance-of-payments and international reserves positions than had been expected;
and a number of significant policy adjustments, most notably in the areas of
exchange rate management and public sector pricing. Yet with population
growing at 2.7% annually, there was probably very little, if any, growth in
per capita income in FY79. The current outlook for FY80 is that GDP growth
will be well below the rate of 7.3% projected by GOB in its FY80 budget.
8.        The succession of three relatively poor crops in a row (1978/79 aman;
1979 boro and aus) has meant that foodgrain available from domestic production
during CY1979 was considerably below the previous year's level. This situa-
tion, combined with a serious slippage in the scheduled arrival of food aid
during the first half of CY1979, led to a fall in the per capita availability
of food and to a level of rice prices unrecorded since the food crisis of
1975. Meanwhile, a low level of domestic foodgrain procurement from the small
crops combined with high offtakes under the ration system led to declining                    *
public food stocks. In contrast to the targeted level of one million tons,
stocks fell to less than 200,000 tons at the end of June 1979. At this level,
it is generally conceded, the distribution system is liable to break down,
with the dire consequences that this could entail.
9.        In anticipation of this impending food crisis, Government authori-
ties at the highest level took charge of the situation and directed an all-out
effort to mobilize, import, and distribute the massive volume of foodgrain



-3-
needed to supplement the reduced domestic crops, so as to avert widespread
food shortages in the July-October 1979 lean season. This effort appears to
have been remarkably successful. Almost 2 million tons of food, both aid-
financed and commercially purchased, will have been imported between July
and December 1979. This has put a heavy burden on the country's port handling
capability, its transport facilities, and its public administration and dis-
tribution system. Nevertheless, the authorities were able to unload and
distribute this unprecedented volume of foodgrains in a minimal amount of
time, enabling offtake to be stepped up and stocks to be restored to a more
comfortable level. By the beginning of September 1979, therefore, rice prices
had begun to ease and what might have become a serious food crisis was averted.
10.       The underlying problem -- i.e., the slow growth of agricultural pro-
duction -- has become the principal focal point of concern among Bangladesh's
top leadership and economic planners. As will be discussed below, it is ex-
pected that first priority in the Second Five-Year Plan will go to agriculture,
and especially to food production. Meanwhile, the short-term food supply out-
look is still problematic. The end-1979 stock position will be adequate be-
cause of the substantial imports between July 1979-December 1979. The forth-
coming aman crop, however, is not likely to be much better than last year's,
and the prospects for procurement from this crop--in spite of a recent pro-
curement price increase--do not appear favorable. Consequently, in order to
avert a repetition of the CY1979 situation, considerable amounts of additional
imports will be needed in CY1980. The extent of these requirements will
depend on the prospects for the boro, wheat and aus crops in CY1980, which
cannot yet be ascertained. In any event, efforts to ensure an adequate stock
of foodgrain to meet 1980 requirements cannot yet be relaxed. A special meet-
ing of the Bangladesh Aid Group will convene in late January 1980 to consider
the country's food situation. A Bank mission which visited the country in
October 1979 has prepared a report entitled: "Bangladesh: Food Policy
Issues" for consideration at that meeting. This report was distributed to
the Executive Directors in late December 1979.
The Balance of Payments
11.       Repercussions of the 1979 food shortage were reflected in the balance
of payments. For example, the need to finance commercial purchases of food
imports was evidently a factor underlying GOB's rather cautious implementation
of its import program. Other factors included the Government's concern about
the impact of the OPEC price increases on the country's petroleum import bill
and GOB's desire to defer the importation of non-essential items during the
period when the ports were expected to be congested as a result of the huge
volume of food imports anticipated to arrive during the last quarter of FY79.
As a result, non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained considerably below target.
Because of this and other factors, foreign exchange reserves increased sub-
stantially, which in turn added to the increase in money supply and aggravated
existing inflationary tendencies.  The reserve increase, however, was a tem-
porary phenomenon. Even with a continuing relatively favorable export per-
formance and a restrictive import policy, a substantial overall deficit is
projected for the FY80 balance of payments.



- 4 -
12.       Bangladesh's balance of payments as summarized in Table 1 below con-
tinues to be characterized by a massive structural trade deficit and heavy
dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings in FY79 represented less than 7%
of GDP and less than 40% of the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's export
structure continues to be dominated by raw jute and jute goods, which together
account for approximately 70% df total export earnings. Among the principal
categories of imports projected in FY80 are foodgrains (28%), capital goods
(20%), petroleum products and crude petroleum (14%), and fertilizers (6%).
Table 1: Bangladesh: Balance of Payments, FY76-FY80 (Summary)
(in millions of current US Dollars)
FY      FY
FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79       FY80      78/79   79/80
---(Estimated Actuals)---  (Projected)    % Change
Merchandise exports, f.o.b.       381   460    497    603          746      21      24
Merchandise imports, c.i.f.  -1,266  -865 -1,349 -1,603    -2,459            19     53
Trade Balance                    -885  -405   -852 -1,008    -1,713         17      71
Services (net)                    -24   -17    -17       -5        -16     -71    220
Private transfers                  62    81      83    140         155      69      11
Current Account Balance          -847  -341   -786   -865    -1,574         10      82
Amortization of MLT debt         -68    -30    -35    -55          -71      57      29
IMF Transactions (net)            71      -2     14      27         59      93    118
Other Capital (net)              -23    -48    -15       -          86 /a  -93  8,500
Disbursement of External Aid   814    502    797  1,016         1,378       28      36
of which:  Food aid              307    106    190    187         400       -2    114
Commodity aid /b    378    249    352    472           525      34      11
Project aid          129    147    254    357          453      41      27
Changes in reserves
(- = increase)                    53    -81      25   -122        122        -      -
Reserve Level (end of year)    213    294    269    391            269      45    -31
/a  Includes capital credits of US$77 million for the financing of commercial
food imports in FY80.
/b Including cash.
Source: GOB Planning Commission, IMF and IBRD estimates.
13.       Both imports and exports increased by about 20% in FY79, with the
result that the trade deficit widened by roughly $150 million to $1 billion.
Bangladesh's terms of trade appear to have improved slightly during the year.
Raw jute exports totaled $143 million in FY79, a 47% increase over the previous
year's receipts; this reflected a 17% increase in volume and a 27% increase in



- 5 -
27% increase in prices. Jute good exports in FY79 were $276 million, an 11%
increase over the previous year's receipts; a 12% decline in volume was more
than offset by a 27% increase in unit prices. Tea exports valued at $41 mil-
lion were down slightly in FY79, but relatively large gains were recorded in
leather exports (up 65% to $76 million), fish and shrimp exports (up 65% to
$33 million), and other non-traditional exports (up 29% to $51 million).
14.       Among the notable developments on the import side in FY79 was the
$40 million decline in food imports to a level of about $200 million. This
was some $50 million less than had been projected, owing mainly to the delays
in food aid arrivals noted above. Capital goods imports rose by 21% to a
level of $382 million. Fertilizer imports nearly doubled in value, and there
were significant increases also in imports of petroleum products and cement.
Imports of various other intermediate goods rose by less than had been pro-
jected, because of unexpected shortfalls in the issuing of import licenses
(see paragraph 11 above).
15.       The FY79 current account deficit was considerably lcss than the
trade deficit, owing mainly to the rapid growth of workers' remittances
(shown in Table 1 under private transfers). These receipts are now the second
most important source of foreign exchange, exceeded only by jute goods exports.
16.       Table 1 also shows recent trends in Bangladesh's capital account.
Debt service continued to rise, notwithstanding some debt relief measures
undertaken by various donors, bringing the debt service ratio to 15.8%. 1/
Most notable, perhaps, was the $100 million increase in project aid disburse-
ments in FY79, reflecting the country's growing absorptive capacity. Total
aid disbursements, which passed the $1 billion mark for the first time, were
equivalent to 63% of total merchandise imports. Per capita aid disbursements
came to nearly $12. Reserves at the end of FY79 were equivalent to nearly
three months' merchandise imports. The reserves level rose to nearly $450
million in early October 1979, but has since fallen (as of end-November) to
less than $400 million (or about two months' imports).
17.       Between mid-1978 and mid-1979, GOB undertook a series of exchange
rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by some 24% against the Pound
Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the balance of
payments and the allocation of resources within the economy. In July 1979,
the IMF approved a Standby Arrangement for a period of one year in an amount
equivalent to SDR 85 million, or 56% of Bangladesh's Fund quota of SDR 152
million. Net of repayments, and including projected disbursements of IMF
Trust Fund and (possible) new SDR allocations, the IMF is expected to cover
about $59 million of Bangladesh's financing requirements in FY80. Recent
policy developments relating to Bangladesh's efforts to attract foreign
private capital and to foster more rapid export growth are discussed in
Part II below.
1/   Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.



- 6 -
18.       The near-term outlook for the balance of payments is mixed.  T,here
are favorable prospects with respect to: (i) prices of jute manufactures,
which are expected to be exceptionally high owing to the impact of recent
disruptions in the Indian jute industry; (ii) growth of certain non-
traditional exports; (iii) continued rapid growth in workers' remittances;
and (iv) a more rapid commodity and cash aid utilization. These auspicious
factors are offset, however, by a number of other considerations. Rising
import prices, particularly of petroleum products (POL), are expected to
offset the gains in higher export prices. In FY80, Bangladesh's expenditures
on POL alone are expected to be around $160 million more than in FY79 --
primarily due to higher prices. Substantial purchases of food on commercial
terms also constitute a new drain on foreign exchange resources. Consequently,
despite the large increase in total imports projected for FY80, the current
import program is restrictive in that it allows for very little increase in
the volume of the whole basket of raw materials and intermediate goods imports
(excluding POL) required for stimulating and sustaining further growth of the
economy.
19.       Even with this restrictive import policy, according to the projec-
tions shown in Table 1, Bangladesh would have to draw down its reserves by
some $122 million in FY80. Should the export projections prove conservative,
or should additional cash, commodity and food aid become available, it would
be desirable to relax somewhat the present restrictions upon imports. It
would certainly be undesirable to draw down reserves by more than the presently
anticipated $122 million, however, since the projected end-year reserves of
$269 million would cover the equivalent of only five weeks of merchandise
imports (or still less than two months' equivalent if exceptional food imports
are netted out). These considerations all bear on the case for program
assistance to be discussed below in paragraphs 94 to 99.
Public Finance
20.       Public finances improved in FY79 and are expected to improve further
in FY80. In both years, the contribution of the current surplus to financing
the development budget showed a rising trend, in absolute as well as relative
terms. Borrowing from the domestic banking system, which re-emerged as a
source of budget finance in FY78, has since been avoided. Nevertheless, as
noted above, inflation has again become a serious problem.
21.       Total foreign aid in recent years, as accounted in the budget, has
been equivalent to some 75-80% of total development expenditure. About
one-third of the development budget (called the Annual Development Programme,
or ADP) has comprised foreign aid disbursements to specific projects. Yet the
implementation of many projects, both aided and non-aided, has been hampered
by insufficient or tardy allocation of domestic funds, which emphasizes the
urgent need for continued improvement in the mobilization of domestic resources
if the public investment ratio is to be raised above the roughly 10% of GDP
that it has constituted in recent years.
22.       This task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a strengthening of the tax effort, but in addition--and



- 7 -
above all--improvement in the performance of the public sector business enter-
prises and utilities and reduction of the three key subsidies (on jute, food
and agricultural inputs). The Government has shown growing awareness of the
problem. In October 1976 it established a Taxation Enquiry Commission and
in mid-1978 created five Special Committees to review various aspects of
domestic resource mobilization. The five committees focussed on, respectively:
(i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii) rationalization of the rate
structure of public transport agencies; (iii) economic pricing by public
utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input subsidies, including the fer-
tilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial performance of public
sector enterprises. The committees have recently concluded their work, while
the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was submitted to the
Government in April 1979. Furthermore, a detailed survey of the jute industry
was recently completed for GOB by Economic Consultants Ltd. (ECL).
23.       A start has been made to implement some of the recommendations of
the various advisory groups. Some of the measures suggested by the Taxation
Commission, especially those in regard to tax administration, have been imple-
mented gradually from FY78. In mid-1978 the Government increased railway fares
and in the course of CY1979 raised several other utility rates and commodity
sales prices of public sector enterprises. Foodgrain ration prices were raised
by 20% in April 1979; the budgetary impact of this measure was offset, however,
by an increase in domestic grain procurement prices. 1/ Fertilizer prices were
increased by 28% in September 1979 and petroleum product prices were raised by
20% in November 1979.
24.       The net impact of these and other measures is reflected in the
overall improvement in public finances as shown in the following table:
1/   Domestic rice and wheat procurement prices were raised again in
November 1979, as the Government is attempting to rationalize further
its involvement in foodgrain production and distribution policies; a
corresponding increase in ration prices is expected to be announced
in the near future.



- 8 -
Table 2: Government Budgetary Operations FY78-FY80
(in millions of Taka at current prices)
Nominal Increase (%)
Revised      Revised             Revised Budget    Revised
Budget      'Budget    Budget    FY79/Revised   Budget FY79/
FY78          FY79    1979/80   Budget FY78    Budget FY80
A. Total Revenue        12,447    15,027    18,128         20.7           20.6
Tax Revenue       (9,843)   (11,556)  (14,250)        (17.4)         (23.3)
Non-tax Revenue  (2,604)   ( 3,471)  ( 3,878)         (33.3)         (11.7)
B. Current
Expenditure       10,360      11,290    11,940          9.0            5.8
C. Current
Surplus (A-B)      2,087       3,737      6,188        79.1           65.6
D. Development
Expenditure
(ADP) /a          12,522      16,469    21,239        39.5            21.6
E. Overall
deficit (D-C)    -10,435    -12,732   -15,051            _
/a   Includes some non-capital expenditure, estimated at 15-20%.
25.       The data indicate that development expenditures increased by almost
40% and total revenues by about 21% in FY79; both are projected to increase by
about 21% in FY80. Increased development activity is also reflected in the
increased disbursement of project aid which rose by an estimated 35% in FY79
and is projected to rise by another 24% in FY80 -- reflecting some improvement
in absorptive capacity. Underlying the gains in resource mobilization --
achieved both through restraint on current expenditure and increased revenue --
are a number of measures taken by GOB to reduce the budgetary burden of subsi-
dies and to rationalize the allocation of available resources. These mea-
sures included increases in the prices of various goods and services produced
and/or sold through public enterprises (fertilizer, food, power, water, etc.),
as well as the exchange rate adjustments noted above. A number of these price
adjustments had been recommended by IDA and were agreed to by GOB in the
context of negotiating IDA projects in the respective sectors. In some cases,
however, the price increases were only just enough to make up for cumulative
inflation effects since these prices were last fixed.
26.       The increased revenue collection realized in FY79 and projected in
FY80, as indicated in Table 2, is the continuation of a trend which started
earlier. An important contributing factor over the last several years has
been improved tax administration, although substantial scope remains for
further steps in this field. In addition, revenue has responded to the



- 9 -
overall growth of the economy, and in particular to the expansion and liberal-
ization of imports. Over 80% of tax revenue comes from indirect taxes
(customs duties, excises and sales tax); these in turn are primarily dependent
on imports. In FY79, customs duties increased by some 25%, which was consid-
erably above the increase in imports and reflected partly the effects of de-
valuation. In FY80, however, customs receipts may well rise by proportionately
less than projected increase in imports, mainly because of the exceptionally
large food imports in this year. Revenue from new measures beyond tax admin-
istration in FY79 and FY80 is minor (in both cases only about 2% of total
current revenue).
27.       The rise in current expenditures (exclusive of those which are a
part of the development budget) was limited to 9% in FY79 and is budgeted at
less than 6% in FY80, in both cases representing a decline in real terms.
These increases were much smaller than the 26% growth recorded in FY78, when
a substantial upward adjustment was made in the very low salaries of public
sector personnel. The net contribution of GOB food transactions on the cur-
rent budget (inclusive of funds generated through sales of food provided by
foreign aid mainly in the form of grants) was particularly large in FY79 --
equivalent to 36% of the FY79 current surplus. The jute subsidy is budgeted
to drop from Tk 590 million in FY79 to about Tk 70 million in FY80 although
on the basis of current operations no subsidy will actually be required.
28.       The current budget surplus has risen from Tk 2.09 billion in FY78 to
Tk 3.74 billion in FY79 and is projected to grow to Tk 6.19 billion in FY80.
This would permit a rise in the share of development expenditures financed
from this source from 17% in FY78 to 23% in FY79 and to 29% in FY80. Despite
this improvement, the heavy dependence on foreign aid for financing of the
development effort continues. Moreover, the development budget includes
substantial amounts of current expenditures, of which the fertilizer subsidy
is the largest single item by far; this subsidy rose from Tk 0.66 billion in
FY78 to Tk 1.18 billion in FY79 and is budgeted at Tk 1.10 billion for FY80,
with the reductions in the unit subsidy, which are due to fertilizer sales
price increases averaging 28%, partially offset by increases in estimated
consumption and sales of fertilizer.
29.       The Government did not use domestic budgetary deficit financing in
FY79 and plans to avoid doing so in FY80 as well. But inflationary pressures
which re-emerged in FY78, (sparked primarily by too rapid a creation of
liquidity by the banking system) continued into FY79, especially in the latter
parts of the year when rice prices rose rapidly. In FY79, the overall cost
of living rose by an estimated 16% to 17%. This rate should decline somewhat
during the current fiscal year as a result of efforts being made to slow down
the rise in liquidity. In addition, accelerated foodgrain imports and higher
foodgrain production should contribute to an abatement of inflationary pressure.
30.       Continous review of resource mobilization measures is taking place
as part of the preparations for the Second Five Year Plan. Achievement of the
investment program provisionally envisaged for the Second Plan period would
require the mobilization of domestic resources on a greatly enlarged scale,
implying a savings effort that would place considerable stress upon the
society. Complicating the situation is the fact that, insofar as the Plan's



- 10 -
agricultural production targets are achieved, this would lead to the diminution
of food aid which is presently such an important source of Taka generation.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
31.       FY79 and FY80 comprise the period of the Two Year Plan, which was
meant to provide an opportunity for stock-taking and policy re-appraisal. It
was also meant to be a period during which the Second Five Year Plan as well
as a Perspective Plan would be prepared. In the process, the planners have
addressed themselves to the factors underlying the slow development of the
economy over the past decade. Among these are poor land use, lack of irriga-
tion, inadequate public administration, low domestic resource mobilization,
and social impediments to change. The planners have also analyzed those
problems posed by the basic structural conditions of the economy: mass
poverty; a unique environment prone to national disasters; a high population-
land ratio and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural population; the
high rate of population growth; high illiteracy, poor health and short life
expectancy; high unemployment and underemployment; and a heavy dependence on
foreign aid, not only for investment financing but also for food and other
recurrent inputs.
32.       In view of these conditions and of the disappointing past per-
formance of the economy, the Government now feels that in order to make a dent
in the country's problems a clear break should be made with the past and a
more vigorous development policy should be pursued during the next Five-Year
Plan period. Although the Second Five-Year Plan is still in preparation and
will not be available in draft form until January 1980, the Plan's "Guidelines"
(published in June 1979) together with statements from the National Economic
Council indicate in broad terms the objectives and priorities that seem likely
to characterize the new Plan.
33.       Because of the general and still tentative nature of this plan
strategy, it is too early to analyse its implications in detail. It seems
clear, however, that first priority in the next Plan will go to agriculture
and, within agriculture, to the production of food. The potential for in-
creased agricultural output in Bangladesh is considerable, as yields are
among the lowest in Asia, cropping intensity is low, and fertilizer use still
very modest. Furthermore, there are signs that the environment is ripe for
a significant expansion in the use of High Yield Variety (HYV) technology.
Except for last year, when it was adversely affected by the weather, fertilizer
demand has been expanding at a fairly rapid rate. Wheat production has caught
on very fast, and there seems to be a large unsatisfied demand for irrigation.
Precisely how rapidly food production could be boosted remains to be deter-
mined. The Plan's targets remain to be announced but are expected to be very
ambitious.  Even to replace present imports and to feed the growing population
will require a significant breakthrough in food production and place greatly
increased demands upon public sector finances and upon the institutions which
would have to support this output expansion.
34.       The recent World Development Report (Table 17, page 158) indicates
that the population of Bangladesh, now estimated at about 89 million, will



- 11 -
reach 145 million by the year 2000 if fertility declines at a pace by which
a two-children family norm is reached only in 2035. Such a slow, although
realistic, decline in fertility rate would mean that the natural rate of
growth of population, currently estimated at about 2.7% per annum, would
remain as high as 2% per annum until the end of the century. The implications
of this projected high natural rate of population growth are staggering for
the development prospects of Bangladesh. For example, with the projected
growth of population, the arable land per person would decline from a meager
0.3 acre at present to 0.16 acre by the year 2000. Adverse consequences of
this over-crowding are obvious for a country where the mainstay of the economy
is agriculture and where food shortages are already serious. Annual food-
grain requirements, given the above assumption of population growth, would
rise from 14 million tons at the current low level (15.5 ozs. per day per
capita), to 23 million tons by the year 2000. An unprecedented increase in
yields per acre would, therefore, be necessary even to maintain consumption
at a subsistence level. Not only the food situation will become worse with-
out a drastic decline in rate of growth of population, but it would become
increasingly impossible to educate and provide employment for the rapidly
increasing numbers.
35.       Emphasis in the next five years is likely to be placed on the satis-
faction of a number of basic needs, including the provision of adequate cloth-
ing, universal primary education and rural electrification. It is recognized
that it will take more than five years to fulfill all of the above targets,
but strides will be made in the next plan period towards their achievement.
36.       A plan aimed at departing in a significant way from past trends will
put a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even with the
adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a significant
step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will require
sizable increases in both the mobilization of domestic resources and the
inflow of foreign resources. These are not independent variables, either
in technical or behavioral terms. The overall growth potential and hence the
savings capacity of the economy are themselves (partly) functions of the
availability of aid. Conversely, the availability of aid will to some extent
depend upon the donors' conviction that domestic savings efforts are being
maximized. A critical factor will also be the extent to which implementation
capabilities are improved. Domestic resource availabilities will continue to
be an important determinant of those capabilities.
37.       The execution of such an ambitious plan will call for much improve-
ment in this implementation capability, which has been severely constrained
in the past on account of excessively bureaucratic controls and scarcities
of both qualified administrators and domestic finance. Although immediate
improvements can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite
project implementation, it is unlikely that public agencies alone could be-
come adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas, such as irrigation and irrigation maintenance,
greater reliance will have to be placed on the private sector. It also be-
lieves that, to a certain extent, activities such as education and rural
development should be carried out in a decentralized fashion, with greater



- 12 -
emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots participation. Yet it may prove
all the more difficult to achieve the ambitious short-run output targets
simultaneously with the pursuit of policies and programs aimed at achieving
a far-reaching social transformation in the rural sector. It remains to be
seen what relative weights the Government will assign to these possibly con-
flicting, although desirable, objectives.
38.       Following the issuance of the draft Second Five-Year Plan in early
1980, it is envisaged that the Government will undertake the preparation of
a detailed action program whereby the Plan's objectives will be translated
into specific, time-phased operations. Such an action program should be
available by late 1980. It would include a policy framework for plan imple-
mentation and an improved monitoring system.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
39.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactiva-
tion of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to
Pakistan, before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.6 million
(including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been dis-
bursed under the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of can-
cellations) were made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of December 31, 1979,
37 new credits, excluding the consolidation credit of US$31.0 million referred
to in paragraph 40, have been made, totalling US$1,039.7 million. Of the
amount, US$525 million has been for eight program credits (including a fer-
tilizer program credit). The project credits have emphasized agricultural
development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunications,
transport, power, water supply and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh
became the 105th member of the IFC, and IFC's first investment (High Speed
Shipbuilding and Engineering Co., Ltd.) was approved on May 10, 1979.
40.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the
bilateral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh
of portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became
independent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the
debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before
independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed on
February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding
external debt is not expected to rise significantly above the present level
of about 27% over the next few years.
41.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of December 31, 1979, and notes on the execution



- 13 -
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, due inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of
contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Govern-
ment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are begin-
ning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disburse-
ment performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because
of a shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures
and organizational deficiencies. Some progress is being made. For example,
at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to strengthen the
key ministries and agencies dealing with agriculture and water resources, such
as, the Water Development Board (WDB) and the Bangladesh Agricultural Develop-
ment Corporation (BADC) through detailed studies of their organizational and
operating procedures. These steps have produced noticeable improvements in
the rate of project implementation and further improvements are expected. IDA
and GOB have also given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and supervi-
sion in order to identify and resolve potential problems at an early stage,
thereby reducing the risk of undue delays in project implementation. Further-
more, the Government has taken a number of steps, including improved proce-
dures for recruitment of civil servants and increased emphasis on training,
which should gradually improve the quality of public administration. On the
organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing planning
cells in the main ministries and agencies and is strengthening the Planning
Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under specific
projects and under the ongoing Technical Assistance Credits (Credits 622-BD
and 872-BD).
The Industrial Sector
42.       Of the 37 new credits totalling US$986.() million, 11 credits total-
ling US$560.0 million have been directed towards industry through DFC loans,
small scale industry projects, a fertilizer production project and seven
import program credits for the procurement of essential industrial materials
and spare parts. Additionally, IFC is currently in the process of identifying
further suitable investment opportunities following the approval of its first
project referred to in paragraph 39 above. In addition to the measures dis-
cussed in paragraph 41 above, GOB and IDA have given emphasis to the improve-
ment of the institutional and operating infrastructure of key industries
(e.g., jute, textiles, pulp and paper) through the use of action programs to
identify and resolve problems within the industries concerned and to monitor
the preparation of long term development programs. These measures have laid
the foundations for the long term development programs now being formulated,
through rehabilitation projects currently under consideration, for the jute
and textile industries. A fertilizer industry rehabilitation project has also
been prepared and is expected to be ready for Board presentation in the near
future.
Other Sectors
43.       Agriculture has also been a major beneficiary of projects approved
to date, with 14 credits totalling US$241.5 million directed towards agricul-
ture and rural development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance



- 14 -
credits allocated to this sector). In line with the strategy set forth in
the Bank Group's "Land and Water Resources Sector Study" (Report No. PS-13)
IDA-supported projects have emphasized: (a) expansion of irrigation, drainage
and flood control facilities through technically simple, low cost, short
gestation water control projects; (b) strengthening of agricultural support-
ing services such as extension, applied research, credit, small farmer co-
operatives and rural training; and (c) improvement of farm input supplies
such as seeds and fertilizers. A low lift pump project is expected to be
ready for consideration shortly.
44.       The fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending to Bangladesh. However, in the short-term, the rate of lending
for agriculture will be based upon progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the various implementing agencies. Several of the
IDA-supported agricultural projects--among them the Chandpur II Irrigation
Project (Credit 340-BD), the Northwest Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD) and
the Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 381-BD)--are complete or nearing com-
pletion and the preliminary assessment of the likely benefits indicates the
soundness of these investments. Other projects also remain economically
viable although in many cases the pace of implementation has been rather dis-
appointing and their completion is likely to be delayed   because of the rea-
sons stated in paragraph 41 above. GOB and IDA have given increased emphasis
to regular monitoring and supervision of projects in order to identify and
resolve potential problems at an early stage. These measures have resulted
in visible improvements in project implementation and disbursements over the
past two years. Further improvements are feasible and are being pursued.
Given the complexities of development administration emphasis is being placed
on technical assistance for project preparation, monitoring and supervision
as well as institutional development.
45.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project was approved on May 29, 1979. Improved
education and availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending
in this field has emphasized agricultural and technical training, and voca-
tional education; a project to assist primary education and management train-
ing is expected to be ready for board presentation this calendar year.
46.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, efforts must also be made to
identify projects and provide assistance for industrial development as well as
for infrastructure areas such as transportation, water supply, energy, power,
and telecommunications. Particular emphasis will continue to be placed on
projects which provide infrastructure for the rural sector, process or provide
outlets for products from the rural areas, reduce the strain on Bangladesh's
foreign exchange resources and make a significant contribution towards the
reduction of unemployment. As other external lenders, IDA is inhibited from
achieving the levels of resource transfers appropriate to Bangladesh's circum-
stances by difficulties in the preparation and implementation of development
projects. In these circumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to



- 15 -
priority sectors - such as agricultural and rural development -- where the
percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing of local
currency expenditures is well justified.
47.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provide the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on industrial investment strategy, food policy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
48.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
increasingly have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design,
preparation and implementation to administrative realities. They will also
have to contemplate relatively high amounts of technical assistance and super-
vision. Although progress is bound to be slow and will require painstaking
efforts, there are enormous opportunities for making significant progress in
improving economic conditions for the people of Bangladesh.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR 1/
Role in the Economy
49.       The manufacturing sector accounts for about 8% of GDP, 62% of total
exports and about 14% of the total workforce. Thus, it ranks third after
agriculture and the service sector in its economic importance. Moreover, it
provides an outlet for agricultural products and much needed employment. As
a result of the nationalization of many of the country's industries following
Independence, most of the large and medium scale enterprises are in the public
sector which consists of approximately 275 units organized under the adminis-
trative control of seven corporations namely jute, textiles, chemicals,
steel and engineering, food, cement and forestry. The public sector now
accounts for 65% of the value-added in industry, 85% of manufactured exports
and 25% of the industrial labour force. Although the listing of industrial
activities open to private investment has subsequently been expanded, the
public sector corporations continue to dominate basic industries. To date,
denationalization/disinvestment of industries in the public sector has been
on a minor scale.
50.       The public industrial sector includes the country's largest export
oriented industry (jute) and import substitution industries (textiles, chem-
icals, pulp and paper). The jute manufacturing and cotton textile industries
1/   For a detailed analysis of the Industrial Sector see Report No. 2191-BD,
Bangladesh - Issues and Prospects for Industrial Development, dated
December 5, 1978.



- 16-
constitute close to half of the industrial capacity in Bangladesh and have
essential links to the agricultural, rural and cottage industry sectors of the
economy. In FY79 the jute industry contributed about 30% of the value added
in the organized manufacturing sector, 50% of manufactured exports and employed
170,000 workers'. The cotton textile industry, the second largest industry in
Bangladesh,.has shown a steady improvement in performance since independence.
The industry accounts for about 15% of value added in the manufacturing
sector, employs 76,000 workers and produces about 60% of the country's total
yarn requirements.
Production and Capacity Utilization
51.       Overall, the industrial sector has recorded a slow improvement in
production (Table 3), particularly since FY74, due to the improved avail-
ability of raw materials, intermediate goods and spare parts and to a higher
domestic demand for manufactured products.
Table 3: Production Index
(FY70 = 100)
FY73  FY74  FY75  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79
Jute                   80.3  90.5  78.6  86.2  88.4  97.7  90.6
Textiles               79.5  92.9  94.0  89.1  83.1  93.4  98.5
Pulp and Paper         62.9  64.1  76.6  52.6  59.8  79.1  83.8
Chemicals             139.8  82.5  81.7 208.6 217.4 173.4 217.5
Steel                  90.5  90.0  83.5  77.3  95.3 120.5 146.7
Cement                 58.8  98.4 239.0 296.2 580.5 642.4 599.9
General Index          80.9  94.7  86.0  93.9  99.7 106.5 108.3
Source: Annex IV.
(Weighted on value added)
52.       Despite the improvement in production, many enterprises suffer from
low capacity utilization. While average capacity utilization was about 65%
in FY79, capacity utilization was particularly low in chemicals (50%), engi-
neering (50%), steel (49%) and foods (40%) (Annexes IV and V give a detailed
report on performance of IDA assisted industries). The reasons vary from
plant to plant. Nevertheless, a number of common factors are identifiable
including: (i) irregular and insufficient raw materials supply; (ii) equip-
ment breakdown and poor maintenance; (iii) insufficient labor training and
migration to the Middle East; (iv) administrative delays linked to excessive
centralization; (v) frequent power cuts; (vi) inadequate transportation;
(vii) lack of spare parts and components linked to foreign exchange shortage;
and (viii) lack of working capital which prevents procurement of sufficient
spares and components and even, in some cases, raw materials to operate at
capacity. Thus, low capacity utilization is only a symptom of many serious
problems affecting production efficiency. Under the Fourth to the Seventh
Imports Program Credits, specific action programs were developed with GOB to
help rectify these problems, particularly in the jute, textile, and pulp and
paper industries (see Part IV, below).



- 17 -
Investment
53.       Since 1973, GOB's general policy on industrial investment has gra-
dually shifted towards encouraging private sector activity. In FY78-FY79,
limits on private sector investment were waived, the Investment Schedule was
revised and private sector investment permitted in 10 sectors previously re-
served to public firms. The net impact of these policy changes is reflected
in the tentative allocation of resources during the current Two-Year Plan and
in the rising levels of term lending finance to tlhe private sector. In the
Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80), Tk 8.2 billion was targetted for industrial invest-
ment, with about Tk 2.5 billion (or 25% more than in FY78) allocated for pri-
vate sector investment. In FY79, loans sanctioned by DFCs increased from
Tk 1.1 billion in FY78 to Tk 1.3 billion (or by about 3% in real terms assum-
ing an inflation rate of 15%). To remove administrative obstacles and to
facilitate implementation of projects, GOB recently established a "High-Powered
Board" within the Ministry of Industries with a mandate and power to resolve
administrative difficulties. This is a promising measure that should be pur-
sued aggressively. Similarly changes have been made liberalizing private
sector investment but the full impact of policy changes has been reduced by
weaknesses in policy instruments. The new investment schedule does not define
priority investment areas and is thus an ineffective instrument in indicative
planning. Further, the investment incentives supporting the Schedule need to
be enhanced or refined.
54.       These and other factors contribute to the slow rate of growth in
private sector investment and are being addressed as part of IDA's dialogue
with GOB on industrial investment policy. Specific action includes a review
of investment approval procedures and priorities being carried out in accord-
ance with agreements reached under Credit 632-BD. Although the number of
foreign investments sanctioned since independence is at a low level (about
38 projects, totalling about US$62 million by the end of FY79), GOB has sought
to encourage foreign investment in Bangladesh, both directly and in the form
of joint ventures, by establishing a duty free Export Zone at Chittagong, and
by the preparation of a Foreign Investment Act defining rules for repatriation
of funds, etc. There is necessarily a lengthy transition from an economy
dominated by the public sector to a balanced mixed economy in which private
domestic and foreign industrial enterprises are able to make a significant
contribution to growth. Nevertheless, GOB's efforts have met with some
success with the private sector gaining in size and strength.
Export Performance and Prospects
55.       From FY77 to FY79, Bangladesh's manufactured exports have risen
from US$219.7 million to US$365.1 million, or by 67%, (Table 4) with signi-
ficant growth rates for timber products (363%), handicrafts (198%) and leather
(197%). However, these growth rates have been offset to a great extent by
the stagnation, in real terms, of jute goods exports. Other factors that
have influenced the rate of growth have been the dominant orientation of
Bangladesh's industrial development toward import substitution and the low
profitability in some areas of export industry.



- 18 -
Table 4: Manufactured Exports
($ Million)
Commodities                Average FY73-FY77   FY78    FY79
Jute Goods                         186.1        240.9   267.7
Leather                             25.0         43.9    74.7
Timber Products                      3.2          7.3    14.8
Special Jute Goods                   0.5          1.0      1.5
Handicrafts                          0.4          1.7      2.5
POL                                  3.7         11.3      9.0
Others                               0.8          9.1      5.1
219.7       315.2   365.1
56.       GOB originally projected manufactured exports of US$330 million for
FY79 which implied a growth of 5% over FY78. By active promotion of exports
through export performance licenses (XPL's), export incentives, duty draw
back, etc actual growth was 17%. Export performance and prospects are dis-
cussed more fully in paragraphs 103 to 111.
PART IV - THE INDUSTRIAL ACTION PROGRAMS
A. General
57.       The primary rationale of the first three program credits was the
need to address a serious balance of payments situation, and to provide rapidly
disbursable foreign exchange to meet the rehabilitation needs of the country
after independence. The program content of these credits focused upon the raw
material and spare part requirements of the industrial sector generally, and
the need for a better utilization of capacity originally installed, to service
a much larger market. In 1975, in an effort to strengthen the developmental
impact of the program credits, GOB and IDA moved from a general balance of
payments approach to program lending to consideration of the structural prob-
lems facing the country's largest export-oriented and import substituting
industries. Programs were developed which would, over a period of time, allow
those industries to operate more efficiently and contribute to the country's
domestic resource mobilization efforts. Thus, under the Fourth Imports Program
Credit attention was focussed upon the jute manufacturing industry through the
Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC) and upon the cotton textile industry
through the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC). Under the initial
program and through subsequent expansions, specific measures were developed
to (i) improve capacity utilization, through mill maintenance programs and
spare parts procurement, (ii) reduce the costs of raw material, particularly
of raw jute, (iii) improve production efficiency and (iv) improve the finan-
cial performance and viability of the respective industries through product
cost control, product pricing policies, capital restructuring and asset
replacement programs.



- 19 -
58.       Given the problems facing the industries concerned, it was antici-
pated that progress would be slow. This proved to be the case and it was not
until FY78 that actions to resolve most of the important issues affecting the
jute and textile industries had reached a stage where other issues facing the
industrial sector and the economic viability of the country could be tackled.
The structural problems in the area of industrial policy were identified
through the work of an Industrial Sector Mission and a general dialogue
initiated with GOB on remedial action.
59.       In the light of these analyses, the Seventh Imports Program Credit
addressed the need to develop a comprehensive export policy and medium term
export strategy. Through the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB), a comprehensive
export development program was initiated aimed at strengthening the country's
infrastructural and institutional capabilities for export development and the
provision of the essential prerequisites for the development of a national
export policy and strategy.
60.       When viewed against the situation that prevailed in 1975 when the
first action program was introduced under the Fourth Imports Program Credit
and taking into account that the objective of that and subsequent action
programs was to create the basis for the long term development of the country's
key industrial areas, progress to date has been satisfactory. To be sure,
not all of the problems of the jute, textile, pulp and paper, and fertilizer
industries have been solved, but sufficient progress has been made in strength-
ening operations and financial profitability to justify a move to a project
specific involvement for future operations in these subsectors. In the case
of export development, the program has laid the institutional foundations
necessary to tackle problems of policy; review problems of incentives; and
reduce bureaucratic controls and obstacles to exports. Paragraphs 61 to 92
discuss the impact of the action programs on these key areas and Annexes VI,
VII, VIII and IX assess the current performance and prospects of the jute,
textile and export development programs respectively.
B. Jute
61.       General.  From the mid-fifties to the mid-sixties world consumption
of jute goods expanded at an average rate of 4.0% per annum. However, in the
latter half of the 1960's, this expansionary trend faltered due to (i) changes
in consumer preference, (ii) high and unstable prices for jute goods, (iii)
uncertain supply and quality, and most importantly (iv) the increasing use of
synthetic substitutes which made major inroads into all the traditional end
use areas of jute goods. The shift to synthetics gained further momentum in
the early 1970's due to supply disruptions and high prices for jute goods
resulting from civil disturbances and a series of industrial disputes in both
Bangladesh and India. By 1973, despite increasing demand from the centrally
planned economies (China, Russia etc.) overall world consumption had fallen
from 3.4 million tons (FY70) to about 3.0 million tons (FY73).



- 20 -
62.       With the advent of the energy crisis in 1974-75 and its impact upon
the cost of polypropylene, the jute industry major competition, the industry
had the opportunity to regain lost markets and to make inroads into market
areas dominated by synthetics. Because of strikes, poor crops and the physical
dilapidation of its industry, Bangladesh was not able to capitalize upon its
opportunities and its share of the world market fell from 44% in FY70 to 35%
in FY75. However, since FY75, Bangladesh has increased its share of world
demand for jute goods to a current level of 46%.
Table 5: Bangladesh Share of World Exports of Jute Goods
('000 metric ton)
FY70    FY75   FY79   FY80 /a   FY81 /a
World Export          1,147   1,041    993   1,075        1,085
Bangladesh Export       498      369    458      460        506
% Share                  44       35     46       43         47
/a Estimated.
63.       Given the serious demand and operational problems facing the jute
industry in 1975, a program of short, medium and long term assistance was
designed and implemented under the Fourth Imports Program Credit. Some
results were expected quickly, but overall, given the deep seated problems
of the industry, it was anticipated that progress would be gradual with
positive results identifiable only after some time. The Fourth and Fifth
Imports Program Credit action programs focussed upon key areas where immediate
action was needed; for example, the need to link production and sales efforts,
establishment of an adequate maintenance system, establishment of an adequate
financial data base, and to implement financial improvements such as capital
restructuring. By the time of the Sixth Imports Program Credit in 1978, suf-
ficient progress had been made to broaden the scope of previous efforts and
to focus directly on improvements of mill efficiency and profitability. A
mill-by-mill survey was carried out by ECL, to assess the optimal future
operating and investment strategy for the industry.
64.       Impact of The Action Programs.  Since FY75, the jute industry has
made substantial progress in strengthening its operating and financial posi-
tion. Annexes VI and VII show the present status of the industry and of the
action programs, focussing on the areas of marketing, maintenance, organiza-
tion and financial management, operational and financial performance.
65.       Marketing and production planning have improved substantially as a
result of several measures taken by BJMC. Prior to 1975, many mill managers
had chosen to produce those items which raised fewest problems in manufactur-
ing, rather than those which could be sold. The net result was an inventory
accumulation of goods with limited sales potential and shortages of items in
relatively better demand. These shortcomings have since been eliminated.
Following the preparation of a diagnosis report prepared by a marketing advisor
financed by the United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration (ODA), BJMC
established an appropriate organization and procedures for marketing. Other
recommendations for a training program, establishment of marketing research



- 21 -
and a market information system are now under implementation by a marketing
consultant (financed by ODA) who joined BJMC in January 1979 for two years.
In addition, BJMC has strengthened its sales efforts by establishing three
overseas sales offices. With the assistance of a UNIDO expert who started
work in January 1977, BJMC improved its quality control which was reflected
in a substantial reduction of claims for substandard material. Under the
action program of the Fifth Imports Program Credit, the Ministry of Jute has
established an export inspection service. These measures have helped in a
relative improvement of the market position of Bangladesh's jute goods, vis-
a-vis her other major competitors and Bangladesh's jute goods now seem to be
equal in quality to those of India. However, notwithstanding these improve-
ments, substantial increases in research and development are necessary to find
new uses for traditional products as well as new end uses for jute in order
to achieve the longer term objective of recapturing at least part of the world
market previously lost to synthetic fabrics. UNDP is providing assistance to
Bangladesh on research and development for the jute industry, and efforts to
develop jutton (a blend of jute and cotton fibers) continue under IDA technical
assistance.
66.       There is also a marked improvement in maintenance since 1975.  Main-
tenance Task Forces (MTFs), originally consisting of expatriate consultants,
and subsequently of their local engineering counterparts, have drawn up and
are implementing specific maintenance programs for each mill. Maintenance
standards have improved substantially. Purchasing procedures for spare parts
have been streamlined and local production of spare parts under CIDA technical
assistance started in mid-1979.
67.       organization and management issues were also tackled.  In 1977, BJMC
established unit boards, chaired mostly by its s:ix directors, for each of its
77 mills. However, it was discovered that this span of control was excessive
and led to inadequate supervision of mill operations. In line with ECL's and
IDA's recommendations, BJMC now proposes to reduce the burden upon the Directors
by grouping mills into nine zones each under a general manager who would con-
trol not more than nine mills. Such groupings would reduce the span of con-
trol of directors to nine officers and will permit better use of scarce man-
agement skills and facilitate the tapping of economies of scale by gradually
integrating the operations of adjacent mills. In particular, BJMC will estab-
lish training units in selected mills within each group. BJMC has also estab-
lished an incentive scheme, designed to reward both management and worker
performance. This system is presently under review and appropriate changes are
likely to be implemented by early 1980. Finally, in connection with the Sixth
Imports Program Credit, Bangladesh consultants (EWP) financed by ODA/UK have
designed a management information system. BJMC is currently preparing the
system for implementation. The same consultant has devised a process account-
ing system, which would give better control on wastage and better data for
decision-taking at mill level. The system is being tested and will be imple-
mented in early 1980.
68.       The measures implemented under the action programs have already
resulted in an improvement in the operational performance of BJMC's mills and
have helped to contain a deterioration of the financial performance. Weaving



- 22 -
efficiencies improved from 43% of overall installed weaving capacity in FY75
to 53% in FY79 and production increased by 15% over the same period rising
from 432,000 tons to 494,000 tons despite a shift to lighter fabrics. How-
ever, the full benefits of this improvement were offset by rising raw jute
costs and increased conversion costs. Poor weather conditions decreased
jute yields and raised raw jute prices by about 84%, while conversion costs
were significantly affected by an average 30% wage rate increase in FY78.
Higher losses were averted by an 82% increase in selling prices, by careful
monitoring of the mix of production and by containing the rate of increase
in conversion costs vis-a-vis the rate of inflation. Overall, BJMC's operat-
ing losses were held to Tk 608 million in FY79, considerably below the
Tk 790 projected (Table 6).
69.       The table below shows key indicators of BJMC's performance compared
to previous years and targets agreed for FY79 as part of the Seventh Import
Program Credit (additional indicators and other details are given in the
attachments to Annex VII). For monitoring purposes, targets and costs are
expressed in constant FY79 values:
Table 6: Performance Targets and Other Indicators
FY75    FY77    FY79       FY79    FY80
--------Actuals-------   --Targets---
Production ('000 long tons)          432      481      494       569     525
Export ('000 long tons)              369      464      453       525     460
Spinning Efficiency (%)                60      65       65        65      66
Weaving Efficiency
(lbs/operating loom Hr)
Hessian                           6.1      6.1      6.3      6.2      6.3
Sacking                          16.7    17.6    17.7       18.6    17.7
Carpet backing                   14.8    14.2    13.3       14.8    13.5
Raw Jute Consumption Ratio              1.09    1.20    1.22       1.15    1.10
Wastage %                               4.1     8.0      7.1       7.1     6.8
Selling Price (Tk/ton)                5000    5928    9137        6176   12378
Conversion Cost (Tk/ton)               2106    2328    3959       3173    4342
Profit/(Loss) before
Interest (Tk/ton)                  (176)    (134)    200        (515)   2529
Profit/(Loss) Tk/ton Sold /a          (588)   (1053)  (1260)   (1390)   1698
Profit/(Loss) Tk million  /a          (254)    (515)   (608)    (790)    849
/a   Profit/(Loss) per ton sold is computed on the basis of (i) valuation
of unsold inventories at cost or market price whichever is the lower
and (ii) inclusion of interest and general financing charges.
70.       On the basis of firm export orders and adequate stockholdings of
raw jute to meet these orders, BJMC projects operating profits of Tk 849
million.  As of December 1979 operating profits were about Tk 450 million
for FY80, thus reversing the trend of losses from FY75 to FY79. For the
medium term, i.e. until 1985, the return to profitability is expected to be



- 23 -
maintained. However, the level of profitability would be significantly
influenced by changing patterns in product mix demand over which BJMC has
limited control and by the impact of mill rehabilitation and financial re-
structuring. The effect of these and other variables would be monitored every
six months during the course of supervision of the ongoing Imports Program
Credit. During these missions operating projections would be updated and
corrective action recommended to maintain current levels of profitability.
71.       Capital Restructuring is one of the key requirements of improved
financial performance. Due to the continuous operating losses over the past
few years, the Corporation as a whole has a negative equity base and its
operations are now funded by budget appropriations and term loans from GOB
and the banking system. To rectify this situation and to place the opera-
tions of the BJMC on a sound commercial basis, GOB will implement an annually
phased capital restructuring program for BJMC and its units to be completed
by December 31; 1983 (Section 3.06 and Schedule 3 of the draft Development
Credit Agreements). Under the program GOB would, by June 30 1980, convert
into equity about Tk 37 crore (US$24.0 million) of ADP loans and about Tk 50
crore (US$32.0 million) of GOB interest free loans. During the period to
December 31, 1983 GOB would also provide BJMC with cash infusions of about
Tk 270 crore (US$175 million). This would be used to cover repayment of
Tk 170 crore (US$110 million) due to the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank, Tk 52 crore
(US$33 million) due on mill debentures and Tk 48 crore (US$31 million) due
to the Commercial Banks. The total amount of cash infusions would be subject
to verification and the amount of each yearly cash payment subject to the
availability of budgetary resources. The total amount of cash infusions
would be adjusted also by any after tax profits or losses incurred by BJMC
and its units during the period to December 31, 1983. However GOB has agreed
that it would provide a yearly minimum cash infusion equal to the amount
required by BJMC and its units to service the debts due to BSB, BSRS and the
Commercial Banking system in accordance with repayment schedules agreed with
the lending institutions. Conversion of the ADP loans, and GOB's cash in-
fusions would reduce BJMC's debt/equity ratio to 60:40 and would reduce
overall interest charges by about Tk 350 per ton, thus making all product
lines profitable.
72.       Raw Jute Pricing.  Under the Sixth Imports Program Credit a study
to (i) review GOB's pricing policies for raw jute purchases, (ii) determine
the optimal mix between raw jute and jute good exports and (iii) determine
appropriate policies for jute-distribution and allocation was carried out
by ODA. The study was completed in February 1979 and GOB's comments were
submitted to IDA in June 1979. Changes in the industry's organization struc-
ture have been agreed (e.g. the restructuring of the Jute Trading Corporation
and the Jute Marketing Corporation). Actions to be taken to establish mech-
anisms/procedures for development of an optimal pricing structure/export
strategy have been discussed with GOB which has agreed to establish a cell
within the Ministry of Jute to monitor movement in raw jute pricing as part
of the development of an export strategy and optimal pricing structure.
Satisfactory progress on these actions would be monitored under the pro-
posed credit.



- 24 -
73.       Mill Rehabilitation.  In FY78, ECL consultants carried out an ex-
tensive survey of the physical condition of BJMC's mills and proposed a Tk 965
million balancing, modernizing and rehabilitation (BMR) program for the in-
dustry. Given the uncertainties of the long term world demand for jute goods,
certain aspects of ECL's proposals were revised by a GOB study group which
proposed a switch in emphasis from an extensive modernization of facilities
to a rehabilitation program coupled with the maximum utilization of existing
facilities through three shift operations of all hessian and sacking mills.
This change in emphasis would reduce the total project costs from Tk 965
million (US$65.0 million) to about Tk 250 million (US$16.0 million).
74.       Impact of Rehabilitation.  The rehabilitation of equipment would
improve machine efficiency and thus reduce unit costs of production. Pro-
duction potential would increase to about 730,000 tons or by 80,000 tons
above the economic optimal level of production (currently estimated at about
650,000 tons). However, given the country's chronic power shortages, labour
unrest and the industry's high levels of absenteeism, it is unlikely that the
optimal economic level of production would be exceeded. Building on the
anticipated profitable operation for FY80 and on the basis of current projec-
tions of world demand for jute goods in the medium term, the cost and produc-
tion benefits of the rehabilitation should result in the BJMC units operating
economically and on a total cost recovery basis.
75.       The Future.  Compared to the situation in 1975, the jute industry
has made substantial progress in achieving long term viability.  It is now
possible to consider a move to a more project specific approach to eliminating
some of the major technical constraints to improving production efficiency,
reducing wastage and improving the quality of output. The proposed project
would provide also a vehicle to monitor closely the continuing implementa-
tion of requirements under the Imports Program Credits, particularly the
(i) development of an export strategy for jute and jute goods; (ii) creation
of an optimal pricing structure for jute; and (iii) reorganization of the
industry. This project specific approach would be implemented under a pro-
posed jute rehabilitation project which has been appraised, and which would
provide for the industry's rehabilitation and for its ongoing maintenance
programs. Thus under the Imports Program Credit, no provision has been made
for the supply of raw materials or spare parts for the jute industry.
C. Cotton Textiles
76.       General.  Following independence in 1972 and up till 1974, the
industry 1/ overcame problems of power shortages, labor unrest and an erratic
supply of raw materials and spare parts, reporting increasing profitability,
with profits equal to a 32% after tax return on equity by FY74. The cash
1/   Following the nationalization of the country's large textile units,
the industry was split into three subsectors (i) the handloom sector;
(ii) the private powered loom sector; and (iii) the organized sector--
BTMC. Reference to the cotton textile industry refers to the organized
sector.



- 25 -
flows generated by the industry enabled it to clear a major part of outstand-
ing repayments on long-term loans from the financial institutions. However,
this was achieved partly at the expense of equipment replacement and main-
tenance. By December 1974, 25% of installed spindle and loom capacity was
inoperable. The 60% devaluation of the taka in May 1975, which increased the
foreign exchange cost of purchases of essential spare parts (with a resulting
increase in the level of inoperable equipment) and caused significant increases
in the cost of imported raw cotton and interest charges on foreign currency
term loans, exacerbated the industry's poor equipment replacement performance.
77.       The findings of a 1975 survey 11 were used in preparing the action
program for the Fourth Imports Program Credit which addressed: short run
problems in production; the need for greater managerial autonomy; and the lack
of a long-term development strategy for the industry. Initially, progress was
slow due to delays in staffing expatriate teams engaged to carry out general
studies and productivity programs. However, under the Fifth Imports Program
Credit, these activities were expanded; by FY77 sufficient operational and
institutional progress had been made to justify broadening the focus to cover
policy issues (pricing, autonomy, etc.) which were affecting further improve-
ment and constraining profitability.
78.       Annex VI contains a detailed description and status report on the
cotton textile industry action programs. Two of the four studies undertaken
to determine the future development and structure of the industry have been
completed. 2/ Studies to determine the feasibility of producing polynosic
fibers and the relative efficiency of handlooms vis-a-vis powered looms are
scheduled for completion by March 1980. A UNDP/UNIDO project to improve mill
productivity has commenced and will analyze and identify spare parts manufactur-
ing requirements and estimate the extent to which the Bangladesh Machine Tool
Factory (BMTF) can meet BTMC's spare parts requirements.  Production has been
rationalized and spare parts availability and maintenance programs improved.
BTMC has implemented a detailed training program using facilities at a new
spinning mill and is improving management control systems. In general, GOB/
BTMC have implemented or initiated action to implement all the requirements
of the action programs. In the critical area of capital restructuring, GOB
has agreed to the implementation, by December 31, 1984, of an annually phased
program of loan conversion and cash infusions necessary to give BTMC and its
units a debt equity ratio of 60:40 (Section 3.06 and Schedule 3 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Under the program GOB would, by June 30 1980,
convert into equity about Tk 33 crore (US21 mil'Lion) of ADP loans and by
December 31, 1984 make annual cash payments to provide BTMC and its units
with about Tk 86 crore (US$55 million) of additional equity. The total amount
of cash infusions would be subject to verification and the amount of each
yearly cash payment subject to the availability of budgetary resources. The
total amount of cash infusions would be adjusted also to reflect any after
tax profits or losses earned by BTMC and its units during the period to
1/   Report No. 883-BD - Bangladesh - Survey of the Jute and Textile
Industries: September 25, 1975.
2/   The studies are (i) the census of the Handloom Sector; and (ii) initial
Feasibility of producing Manmade Fibers.



- 26 -
December 31, 1984. However, GOB has agreed that it would provide a yearly
minimum infusion equal to the amount required to service BTMC/units repayment
to BSB, BSRS and the Commercial Banks on term debts in accordance with agreed
repayment schedules. Additional to the capital restructuring, GOB will imple-
ment by September 30, 1980, such actions as are necessary to provide that
BTMC's after tax return on shareholders equity is at least 10% per annum
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
79.       Impact of the Action Programs.  After the devaluation of the Taka
in 1975, the industry was less able to cope with its financial requirements.
The flow of essential spare parts decreased and mill maintenance programs
(already weak) deteriorated.  Thus, from a profitable operation in FY75, the
industry commenced a decline. As shown in Table 7, operable spinning capacity
was reduced and capacity utilization fell from 81.9% in FY75 to 74% in FY77.
Weaving capacity utilization also decreased, falling from 66.5% in FY75 to
58% in FY77. Production efficiency fell, with cloth production declining
from 21.1 yards per loom shift in FY75 to 18.9 yards per loom shift in FY77.
As a consequence, production of yarn and cloth fell from 100.6 million lbs
and 85.9 million yards respectively in FY75, to 93.5 million lbs and 68.6
million yards respectively in FY77. The devaluation resulted in increased
costs of raw material and spare parts. After tax profits fell from Tk 44.0
million in FY75 to a loss of Tk 169.0 million in FY77. Given BTMC's increased
reliance on the exchequer, BTMC/mill management suffered from a considerable
lack of autonomy, particularly in the areas of pricing, procurement for raw
cotton, and personnel. This further reduced BTMC's ability to halt the
decline in overall profitability and unit efficiency.
80.       By early FY78, the impact of the action program became evident.
The autonomy of BTMC/mill management had significantly improved with removal
of major constraints on spare parts procurement, raw cotton purchasing, mill
personnel recruitment and general marketing. Under the Seventh Imports
Program Credit, this autonomy was further strengthened by agreement with GOB
on greater BTMC/mill autonomy in the areas of price control and raw cotton
procurement (up to $1.5 million). Spare parts shipments began arriving, and
mills were able to institute regular maintenance programs. Notwithstanding
continued power shortages and labor unrest, performance improved from the
trough of FY77. Spindle utilization increased from 74% in FY77 to 82% in
FY79, while loom utilization rose from 58% in FY77 to 75% in FY79. With these
improvements, there was a corresponding increase in production with yarn and
cloth production passing the FY75 levels by 10%. Although yarn and cloth
prices were still controlled, BTMC reduced its after tax losses from Tk 169.0
million in FY77 to Tk 35.0 million in FY79. The table below shows some key
indicators of BTMC's performance since FY75.



- 27 -
Table 7:                   Performance Targets and Other Indicators
Actuals              Targets
FY75    FY77   FY79       FY79    FY80
Production
Yarn (Million lbs)             100.6    93.5  110.3       110.0   137.5
Cloth (Million yds)             85.9    68.6   88.3       100.0   117.5
Efficiency - Spinning
Capacity Utilization (%)        81.9    74.0   82.0        83.0    86.0
Oz per Spindle Shift             2.3     2.4    2.4         2.4     2.5
Efficiency - Weaving
Capacity Utilization (%)        66.5    58.0   75.0        73.0    85.0
Yds per Loom Shift              21.1    18.9   19.9        21.4    22.9
Wastage (%)
Yarn                            14.1    10.6    9.9         9.0     9.0
Cloth                            4.1     4.5    4.1         5.0     3.0
Profitability (Tk Million)
Net Profit/(Loss) Before Tax 125.0  (138.0)  48.0         136.0    78.0
Net Profit/(Loss) After Tax   44.0  (169.0) (35.0)         61.0    35.0
Conversion Costs (Tk)
Yarn per lb                     13.6    17.3   20.1        21.4    20.0
Cloth per yd                     4.4     5.8    7.1         6.9     7.0
81.       Given the problems facing the industry, BTMC's unit managers have
shown a flexibility and capacity to adjust to changing conditions. The basic
objective of attaining reasonable operation of the mills has clearly been
achieved and the industry has been restored to the stability necessary to
tackle the problems of raising productivity (through BMR), increasing capa-
city (through the construction of new mills), and of developing the long-term
strategy necessary to improve the overall efficiency and cost effectiveness
of the industry. The efficiency levels achieved by the Corporation are still
low by international standards but the targets established for FY80-FY81
build upon the trend of improvement evident since FY77.
82.       The Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Industry.  The review of
the rehabilitation needs of the industry required under the Sixth Imports
Program Credit has been completed. This indicates that there is an imbalance
of spinning/weaving facilities in the composite mills and a considerable
deterioration/obsolescence of spindle facilities in mills constructed pre-
1960, which would require extensive rehabilitation/modernizing. On the basis
of criteria agreed with GOB/BTMC 1/ a project proposal for the rehabilitation
1/   The criteria were that BMR investment would only be carried out where
investment gives a positive internal financial and economic rate of
return, and a level of conversion costs after rehabilitation not greater
than the CIF (Chittagong) price of similar products produced by the
production facilities being rehabilitated.



- 28 -
of BTMC's 50 mills in three phases was submitted to IDA in March 1979 for
appraisal and financing. The project aims at increasing the number of opera-
tional spindles by 175,000, operational looms by 1,750 and improving spinning
efficiencies from 2.4 oz per spindle shift to 2.83 oz. On completion of the
rehabilitation, production of yarn is expected to increase by 38 million lbs
per annum. Total cost of the project (FY79 prices) is expected to be Tk 774.6
million ($50.0 million) with a foreign exchange component of Tk 525.0 million
($33.8 million). Appraisal of the project is scheduled for June 1980. Actual
timing is dependent upon completion of the study of the relative efficiencies
of the handloom vs. powered loom sectors and implementation of GOB's pricing
policy.
83.       Prospects.  The action programs to solve the policy, procedural
and operational problems of the industry and the measures to improve manage-
ment and management control are being implemented. The problems that caused
the decline in production during FY75 to FY77 and the financial losses during
FY77, FY78 and FY79, namely cotton purchasing and prices, have also been sig-
nificantly reduced with a resultant improvement in performance. The stability
needed to achieve the action program objectives now exists, and a continuing
improvement in the industry's performance is expected. Progress on the studies
started under the Fourth Imports Program Credit to tackle the long-term issues
facing the sector has been slower than planned originally, although the final
two studies are due to be completed by March 1980. While progress in general
is satisfactory, there is still a need to monitor closely such problem areas
as autonomy and pricing. On these and other matters, a continuous dialogue
will be maintained with GOB/BTMC.
D. Other Subsectors
Pulp and Paper
84.       General.  The mills of the sector were originally conceived to
serve both the East and West Pakistan markets with consumption in Bangladesh
accounting for less than 35% of installed newsprint capacity and 50% of
printing/writing paper capacity. With the loss of West Pakistan markets in
1972 capacity utilization in the sector dropped to about 30%. This decline
was aggravated by a deterioration in the physical condition of the country's
four mills. Thus from FY73 onwards, despite increases in domestic and export
demand, capacity utilization grew slowly rising from 30% in FY73 to 66% in
FY79. This improvement was aided by an extensive program of mill maintenance
and rehabilitation, and during FY79 total production was 83,800 metric tons
as compared to 55,000 metric tons in FY78.
85.       Despite increased production, profitability has been affected by
the low level of controlled domestic price newsprint, which is well below
current cost of production. As at June 30, 1979, the industry had recorded
accumulated operating losses of Tk 420 million (Tk 400.0 million, FY78) and
further substantial losses were expected for FY80. Present price levels are
inadequate to cover variable costs and the industry is unable to service its



- 29 -
debts.  While adverse market conditions, particularly for exports, are also a
major factor affecting production and profitability, it is doubtful, given the
physical condition of the mills, if production anywhere near rated capacity
could be achieved.
86.       While supplies of fibrous raw materials do not currently create
serious operating problems at the mills, improvement in mill operating per-
formance through BMR, with consequent increases in material requirements,
could create fiber supply problems at Khulna, Karnaphuli and North Bengal.
The supply of hardwood (gewa) to Khulna and North Bengal is dependent upon
continued availability of resources in the Sunderban Forests. However, no
inventory of resources has been taken since 1959 and it is now uncertain
whether the long-term supply of gewa would be sufficient to meet increased
hardwood requirements for the next twenty years. Under the terms of reference
for a proposed coastal afforestation project, IDA is reviewing the potential
for using alternative species of mangrove hardwood for pulping in the mills.
The review would also consider processing changes/costs involved in the use
of the alternative materials.
87.       Rehabilitation of the Industry.  Although the Bangladesh Chemical
Industries Corporation (BCIC) has carried out a considerable amount of special
maintenance/rehabilitation on the sector's four pulp and paper mills since
FY75, the physical condition of the older mills (Khulna and Karnaphuli) has
deteriorated to a point where major rehabilitation expenditure is now needed.
Bilateral and international agencies are providing assistance at all four
mills. SIDA and IDA are involved at the Karnaphuli Mill and in March 1979,
GOB approved a $10.0 million BMR proposal and has sought SIDA financing. In
the case of the Khulna Mill, CIDA has provided technical assistance and is
presently considering a C$5.5 million proposal for mandatory rehabilitation
of boiler facilities, etc. KfW has provided technical assistance to the
Sylhet Pulp and Paper Mill and a BMR proposal has been prepared. However,
Kfw has been unable to reach agreement on expatriate management considered
necessary for the program to be successful and has withdrawn its offers of
assistance. GOB has requested Kfw to convert all previous loans for Sylhet
into grant aid. For the North Bengal Mill, IDA is currently considering a
proposal for a $5.0 million BMR project.
88.       The Action Program.  Given the number of bilateral and multilateral
agencies involved in the industry, coordination of the measures being taken to
improve performance, and to carry out long-term rehabilitation of the mills,
is of major importance. This need was recognized by GOB/IDA and it was agreed
that a study should be carried out to determine the future infrastructural
and institutional framework of the industry. In 1978, GOB/BCIC retained the
services of a consultant to carry out the study, which was due to be completed
in February 1979. However, the consultant is in dispute with BCIC and it is
unlikely that any useable report will now be forthcoming. The need for the
study and its resulting long term development program still exists - more so
given the uncertainty of resource availability for the mills as they are pre-
sently constructed. Terms of Reference (TOR) for a new study have been
discussed with GOB, and GOB has indicated that the study should be completed
by December 1980. If necessary GOB would seek technical assistance financing
from IDA.



- 30 -
89.       All actions agreed with IDA in connection with previous Program
Credits have been initiated and most of the objectives are expected to be
achieved, although in some instances much later than originally planned.
Delays in completing some of the actions have been due in part to difficulties
in obtaining suitable consultants for mill rehabilitation programs and the dis-
pute between BCIC and the consultant carrying out the long term development
study.
Fertilizer
90.       Background.  Chemical fertilizer was first introduced into Bangladesh
in 1958 and its use spread rapidly, particularly after the establishment in
1962 of the East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation, which later
became the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). To cope
with this demand, the first of the country's four production units was estab-
lished in 1961 at Fenchuganj. 1/ This unit had a design capacity of 106,000
tons per year (tpy) of urea and 12,000 tpy of ammonium sulphate using
Bangladesh's ample gas resources as base stock. The plant achieved close
to 90% capacity utilization during its first nine years but operated below
rated capacity after 1971. It was overhauled in 1975 and again in 1979.
Following the 1979 overhaul, it has been operating at about 85% its rated
capacity. A second urea plant with a design capacity of about 335,000 tons
was built at Ghorasal. This plant initially encountered mechanical problems
and by mid-1974 reached only 80% of its rated capacity. In late 1974, an
explosion put the plant out of commission for most of FY75. Since June 1975,
it has been producing at well below its rated capacity. A Japanese engineer-
ing company overhauled the plant during the summer of 1978. The plant operated
at 70% of capacity during FY79 and it is reported to be currently operating
at about 85%. In 1968 and 1970 two triple superphosphate (TSP) plants based
on imported raw materials and with a combined design capacity of 152,000 tpy
were completed at Chittagong. However, due to mechanical problems and initial
raw materials shortages, these plants did not begin trial runs until 1974 and
1975 and the first plant was not brought into production until 1977, after
technical problems were corrected. The second plant has suffered from insuf-
ficient maintenance, bottlenecks in the water supply system, and cut-offs
of electricity. During FY79 the Chittagong facilities operated at only about
42% of capacity due in part to shut-downs for about 80 days for lack of raw
materials. Even with these shut-downs, production was 65% more than had been
previously achieved. A third urea plant is under construction at Ashuganj,
to be operated by the Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company (AFCC). This
plant, designed to produce 528,000 tpy of urea, is being financed under IDA
Credit 527-BD and by seven other lenders.  The Ashuganj project has encountered
substantial delays and cost overruns due in part to unforeseen site preparation
and construction activities to compensate for earthquake risk at the project
site and is currently not expected to be completed until March 1981.  (For
more details on the Ashuganj project, see Report No. P-2568-BD of May 18,
1979). With the shortfall in output, the domestic industry has not been
able to cope with the steady increase in the demand for fertilizer.
1/   These units are under the administrative control of the Bangladesh
Chemicals Industries Corporation (BCIC).



- 31 -
91.       Since FY66, fertilizer consumption has increased at an average
annual rate of about 17%. Imports increased from about 350,000 tons in FY76
to about 640,000 tons in FY79. The growth in consumption has been steady
except for FY72, following independence, and FY75 following the explosion at
the Ghorasal Urea factory. Between FY77 and FY78, there was a 40% increase
to 715,000 tons in the offtake of commercial fertilizers. Factors that ex-
plain this growth include improvements in the foodgrain procurement, efforts
to stabilize prices and increased Government efforts to promote fertilizer
specifically by distributing mini-kits, liberalized credit and simplified
sales procedures. In FY79, however, fertilizer consumption grew at only 4%
due to drought in the second half of the year, reducing offtake substantially.
92.       The Action Program.  Against the backgrolnd of short supply, the
need to improve the performance of the fertilizer industry and to provide
a more adequate supply of finished fertilizer to meet the country's require-
ments was recognized by GOB/IDA. Under Credit 944-BD (the Fertilizer Imports
Credit) of June 8, 1979, a program of actions to attack the key constraints
affecting the fertilizer sector was established. The program included measures
to (a) reduce GOB's fertilizer subsidy; (b) maintain incentive procurement
prices for grain; (c) isolate the agricultural development budget from the
fertilizer subsidies; (d) establish a high-level fertilizer coordination com-
mittee; (e) take actions based upon the results of consultants' studies and
programs currently in progress to improve the performance of Bangladesh's
domestic fertilizer transport carriers and take additional actions based
upon the results of ongoing consultants' studies to increase the efficiency
of existing plants through the utilization of its own foreign exchange if
necessary, to ensure availability of sufficient fertilizer to meet an agreed
FY80 consumption target. These actions are being implemented by GOB.
93.       Rehabilitation of Industry.  To assist in improving productivity
of existing plants, IDA financed under the first Technical Assistance Credit
(409-BD) a Fertilizer Factory Improvement Study designed to identify equip-
ment needing replacement, develop uniform spare parts supply and procedures
for inventory and routine maintenance and to provide training of BCIC staff
in these procedures. Financing for continued assistance in implementing
the recommendations of this study is provided under the Second Technical
Assistance Credit (622-BD). Based upon the results of the study, BCIC has
prepared a plan, including investments, to remove bottlenecks caused by
design deficiencies at the plants, increased training aimed at offsetting
the loss of skilled workers to the Middle East, and other measures designed
to improve production of Bangladesh's fertilizer manufacturing industry.
These investments, which are under consideration for inclusion in a proposed
IDA fertilizer industry rehabilitation project, would complement a recently-
approved US$1.7 million UNDP project under which consultants would assist
in managing the Ghorasal urea factory and the two TSP factories and would
attempt to improve capacity utilization through removing bottlenecks, estab-
lishing a preventive maintenance program (including the provision of adequate
spares), advising on more efficient use of power supply, improving materials
handling at the TSP complex and training personnel.



- 32 -
PART V - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
The Case for Program Assistance
94.       While the action programs of the Fourth and subsequent Imports
Program Credits addressed specific issues in key industries, these and earlier
credits were intended also to meet the need to provide a rapid transfer of
resources by providing GOB with funds to ease its extremely limited foreign
exchange position. The share of all IDA imports program credits (US$500.0
million) of overall commodity assistance was about 26%. Thus, the IDA program
lending was a significant component of resource transfer during this period. 1/
The impact of the Imports Program Credits was generally significant. From
FY74 to FY79, total imports of eligible commodities by IDA assisted industries
were about US$2.6 billion of which US$460 million (or 18%) were financed under
the Credits. Lack of the program credits would have had adverse repercussions
on the whole economy, disrupting production in key industries, affecting
exports, and causing widespread unemployment.
95.       The fundamental case for program assistance lies in the gross inade-
quacy of domestic savings and foreign exchange earnings to finance Bangladesh's
development program. A large inflow of external capital has been, and will
continue to be, required merely to achieve a very modest growth of per capita
income. In FY79 the budgetary surplus contributed less than 3% of GDP.
External assistance is financing about 7% of investment which is quite
inadequate at about 10% of GDP. In the public sector, external capital,
directly and indirectly in the form of counterpart funds generated by com-
modity assistance, contributes 75% of the development budget.
96.       The corollary of the disequilibrium between savings and investment
is the severe imbalance in the country's external payments position described
above (PART I). Given the country's inability to borrow funds commercially,
growing commitments of foreign aid have been needed - and will continue to be
needed - to permit simultaneously (i) the maintenance of a high level of food
imports, (ii) imports of capital goods for investment and rehabilitation, and
(iii) imports of raw materials and other inputs for a fuller utilization of
existing agriculture and industrial capacity.
97.       These structural characteristics, both internal and external, com-
bined with severe administrative weaknesses, make it impossible in the short
and medium term to transfer the amount of external assistance required by
Bangladesh to sustain a modest rate of growth by means of project financing
alone. There are limits to the extent that components of any country's devel-
opment or investment program can be formed into projects suitable for external
financing. In the case of Bangladesh which does not have an experienced and
1/   For a more detailed evaluation of the impact of the first three Program
Credits (Credits 345-BD, 458-BD and 515-BD) refer to Program Performance
Audit Reports SecM 78-137 and SecM 78-546 dated February 22, 1978 and
June 29, 1978 respectively.



- 33 -
efficient development administration, external financing requirements are
clearly well beyond this limit, not because they are extraordinarily large
in per capita terms but because they are equivalent to such a large share of
investment spending.
98.       Given the structural constraints in the country's foreign trade
discussed above, including the composition of imports, requirements for im-
ports of general commodities cannot be met by net foreign exchange earnings.
Without program assistance to finance imports of general commodities, the
supply of non-agricultural goods to the economy would be reduced greatly. In
particular, industrial production and exports would have to be cut back sub-
stantially. Utilization of existing industrial capacity has been improving
and is now at an average level of about 65%, compared with less than 50% in
FY73 and about 70% in FY70 (Annex IV shows production trends for selected
industries including those eligible for assistance under IDA Program Credits,
which are also discussed in Annex V). Even with investment in additional
capacity since FY70, industrial production has reached only now the FY70
level. While this situation has many causes, including domestic demand re-
strained by a slow growth of per capita income, shortages of foreign exchange
to finance essential raw materials and spare parts remains a significant
constraint affecting the level of industrial production.
99.       Notwithstanding the current level of aid commitments and the short-
term improvement in reserves, the Bangladesh economy still faces many
difficulties. As noted earlier, a major problem is the lack of free foreign
exchange to finance imports of raw materials necessary to maintain productive
capacity, increase production (and thus substitute for other imports) and
increase exports, particularly of non-traditional exports. For FY80, the
import requirements necessary to maintain FY79 levels of production in the IDA
assisted industries is estimated at US$415 million. Program aid committed or
proposed for FY80 (exclusive of the proposed credit) is about US$265 million,
leaving a gap of about US$150 million. Thus, for FY80-FY81 a considerable
need still exists for program assistance to these key sectors to maintain
FY79 levels of production or to achieve increased capacity utilization. The
provision of program assistance for importing raw materials, spare parts and
other relevant inputs will help to relieve the pressures upon the Bangladesh
economy.
The Credit
100.      The proposed Credit is based partly on the findings of an appraisal
mission 1/ which visited Bangladesh from August 14, 1979 to September 14, 1979
and partly on the findings of the recent Economic Mission which visited
Bangladesh from September 17, 1979 to October 22, 1979. Negotiations were held
in Washington from January 9, 1978 to January 16, 1980. The GOB delegation
was led by Mr. Al-Husainy, Member of the Planning Commission.
1/   This mission coordinated with a mission reviewing export development and
the preappraisal mission for a proposed jute rehabilitation project.



- 34 -
101.      The Credit would bring the total of IDA's industrial imports program
lending to Bangladesh to $550 million. GOB has fully committed the funds
available under ongoing program credits by issuing applications for Qualified
Agreements to Reimburse on import licences. As of December 31, 1979 $66.8
million and $56.0 million had been disbursed from the Sixth and Seventh Imports
Program Credits (each of $75.0 million) respectively. Disbursement under both
credits is satisfactory. However, to take account of deliveries of industrial
imports postponed to facilitate food grain imports, the closing date for the
Sixth Imports Program Credit has been extended to March 31, 1980. For IDA
administered OPEC and EEC Program Credits, $7.0 million made available by OPEC
has been fully committed and $3.5 million disbursed. Of an EEC Special Action
Credit of $45.0 million, $19.0 million has been committed and $17.3 million
disbursed. The credit is expected to be fully committed by February 1980.
Program Content
102.      Policy Focus.  The policy focus of the proposed credit would be on
the development of a comprehensive export policy/strategy. The measures for
expanding the Export Development Program include: (i) the development of a
comprehensive export policy and strategy for the medium term; (ii) removal of
the problems of supply constraints in non-traditional exports; (iii) increas-
ing the effectiveness of current export incentives; and (iv) the improvement
of data collection and analysis necessary to monitor export performance.
103.      Background.  Following the establishment of the jute industry in
1951, jute and jute goods rapidly became East Pakistan's main export item,
accounting for 90% of the country's foreign exchange earnings. However,
since 1973 there has been a gradual change, with exports of non jute goods
rising. By 1979, the latter accounted for 31% of total exports (Table 8).
While the amount of Bangladesh's exports has grown by about 5% per annum in
constant prices since FY77, overall export performance has been mixed.
Earnings from exports have been boosted by significant price increases for
leather and jute goods. However, these gains have been offset by lower
volumes of exports, particularly of non jute goods.
Table 8: Export Performance
(Tk million)
FY77    %    FY78    %    FY79    %
Raw Jute/Jute Goods          4,442   71   5,189   70   6,310   69
Leather                         587    9      680    9   1,158   13
Tea                             558    9      679    9      620    7
Frozen Food                     262    4      291    4      532    6
Petroleum Products              221    3      175    3      140    2
Newsprint                        22    -       88    1       89    1
Other                           163    4      334    4      324    2
Total - Current Prices        6,255  100   7,436  100   9,173  100
Total - FY77 Prices                         6,466        6,936



- 35 -
104.      GOB has recognized the need to diversify its exports and to develop
the institutional structure, the services and the promotion of export produc-
tion. The Export Development Program initiated under the Seventh Imports
Program Credit focussed upon three main objectives: (a) to strengthen and
develop the institutions, particularly the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB),
dealing with export development, (b) to initiate action to develop export
policies and upgrade procedures and (c) to initiate market studies to deter-
mine potential items of exports.
105.      Evaluation of Progress.  Since 1978, with IDA's assistance the EPB
has developed from a poorly staffed organizational shell to a relatively
efficient export promotion institution. Recruitment and staffing has been
accelerated and about 17 key vacancies have been filled during FY79. Training
programs have strengthened staff capabilities and imbued a sense of direction
in trade promotion at Bangladesh's overseas missions. EPB's capability to
monitor and progress exports has improved. In the area of procedures and
policy instruments, EPB has carried out reviews of the systems of custom duty
drawbacks and of export procedures and documentation. To facilitate further
progress, GOB has indicated that it would (i) prepare by June 30, 1980, a
revised feasibility study and implementation program for the Export Processing
Zone, (ii) identify opportunities for expanding the type of service work
successfully used for marine products to other exports and programs and (iii)
further strengthen the organization and staffing of EPB.
106.      Annex IX details the status of the Export Development Program.
Based on a number of studies financed by bilateral aid agencies, EPB has
developed cohesive programs for complementary product groupings. From these
studies e.g., for the leather industry, export (and investment) policy guide-
lines have been developed. As of November 1979, studies of the tea, leather
and frozen food industries had been completed. Plans for improving quality,
developing exports and obtaining higher export prices for these items have
been prepared for implementation during CY1980. The studies are likely to
provide the basis for specific projects in each industry.
107.      Prospects.  GOB has prepared tentative targets for major areas of
exportable commodities for FY80 (Annex X). These targets, which provide a
basis for monitoring the impact of the export development program, were dis-
cussed and agreed with the GOB delegation during negotiations, subject to
revisions to reflect additional investment within the various subsectors and
changes in world demand for Bangladesh products. GOB has projected FY80 ex-
ports at Tk 10.0 billion, a growth of 11% in current prices over the level
of exports achieved in FY79. Achievement of this target depends upon main-
taining the current levels of volume and value of exports of raw jute and
manufactured jute goods and on increasing exports of tea and frozen foods
especially shrimp and fish. The projected increases are offset by possible
declines in exports of leather and leather manufactures because of supply
constraints. The favorable move away-from dependence upon jute goods is
expected to continue with non jute exports rising from 31% in FY79 to 36.5%
in FY80.



- 36 -
108.      The Problems of Supply Constraint.  The development of non tradi-
tional exports is constrained by problems of supply in areas such as leather,
tea, marine products, handicrafts, etc. Under the Seventh Imports Program
Credit a series of indepth market and product development studies have been
carried out with technical assistance from CFTC, EEC, ITC and UNIDO. GOB has
indicated that the work of identifying potential projects would proceed
rapidly and that it would prepare a development plan towards the end of 1980
for the leather industry, including estimates of technical assistance require-
ments, and infrastructural needs to monitor the development of the industry.
109.      Monitoring Export Progress.  The data base for monitoring trends
in exports is weak and collection and dissemination of data is still unreli-
able. The need for sound data is critical for export development and this
need is recognized by GOB. A joint working group of senior officials from EPB,
the Bureau of Statistics and the National Board of Revenue (NBR) is reviewing
the data base and, together with EPB's Information Adviser, has prepared a
draft report providing for comprehensive changes in export data collection and
analysis. GOB will complete the review by July 31, 1980, and thereafter imple-
ment a program to improve procedures (Section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Given effective implementation of the changes, the primary
inflow of export data to GOB should be much improved.
110.      Export Incentives.  GOB has introduced a number of export incen-
tives, including Export Performance Licenses (XPLs) and duty drawbacks. The
XPL system provided for additional import licenses of up to 40% of the FOB
value of specified exports. However, this encourages the use of imported
inputs to the detriment of the efficient and intensive use of domestic
resources. Further, it does not provide adequate incentive to diversify
the export range. GOB has announced that the scheme is to be reviewed and
the emphasis of the incentives placed upon value added. To this end GOB has
established an inter ministerial committee (chaired by the Deputy Governor
of the Bangladesh Bank), consisting of members from the Ministry of Planning,
Finance and Commerce, together with representatives from EPB, NBR and the
private sector. The terms of reference of the committee and its work program
have been agreed with GOB and will be monitored by IDA. The second important
incentive, the duty drawback scheme, was designed to repay the exporter
excise and import duties. However, difficulties have been created by the
complex procedures for agreeing on the rate of drawback and on securing
payment. The former is especially discouraging to those firms that have a
constantly changing input mix, while the latter is an unnecessary disincen-
tive. GOB, by July 31, 1980, would review the procedures to award XPL's and
progressively implement changes to improve the operation of the procedures
(Section 3.09 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). GOB would also
complete the review of the duty draw back system by July 31, 1981 and imple-
ment progressively a program of improvements (Section 3.09 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
111.      An Export Strategy.  IDA's Industrial Sector Mission to Bangladesh
in April 1978 identified the need for the development of an export strategy
integrating institutional frameworks, policies, incentives etc. and coordinat-
ing the technical assistance being received by Bangladesh into a comprehensive



- 37 -
program.  On the basis of studies carried out under the Export Development
Program of the Seventh Imports Program Credit, GOB/EPB have prepared a draft
strategy statement for FY81-FY86. As part of its Second Five Year Plan, GOB
would publish its statement of Export Strategy incorporating policies, plans
and export targets by July 1, 1980 (Section 3.10 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Credit Administration
112.      Eligible Industries.  The Credit and Project Summary lists the
industries which have been recommended for assistance under the proposed
credit, their estimated total import requirements for FY81 and the maximum
amounts to be allocated to each category (paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Eligibility has been determined on the
basis that the industries concerned have acceptable domestic resource costs
(DRCs) and meet one or more of the following conditions: (i) direct and
indirect impact upon exports, e.g. non traditional exports, such as leather,
tea, shrimps, etc.; (ii) high direct and indirect multiplier effect on
utilization of installed capacity; and (iii) a high direct/indirect impact
upon employment generation.  GOB will allocate at least half of the credit
to categories where IDA has established action programs, i.e. textile, pulp/
paper, and non jute export-oriented industries 1/ (paragraph 2(d) of Schedule
1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  Additionally, to facilitate
a more rapid disbursement of the credit during the first few months of effec-
tiveness, it is a condition for effectiveness that GOB would have issued
to potential end-users at least 50% of the import license for goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed credit (Section 4.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
113.      Procurement will be handled by the enterprises to which funds have
been allocated, with responsibility for public sector procurement resting with
the various Sector Corporations and private sector procurement being directed
either through the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) or the Chief Con-
troller of Imports and Exports (CCIE). In addition, the CCIE will be respon-
sible for issuing all licenses for imports under the Credit, and for handling
the allocation of funds to the private sector. The procurement procedures of
GOB and its sector corporations are satisfactory and in line with Bank Group
Guidelines. All imports of cement and steel will be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB). Except for proprietary items, other goods
costing US$100,000 equivalent or more will be procured either through ICB
or through limited international tendering (LIT), invited from Switzerland and
member countries of IDA. As was the case with the Seventh Imports Program
Credit, IDA would review GOB's procurement decisions after such contracts have
been signed and prior to the submission to IDA of the first withdrawal appli-
cation in respect of such contracts. Contracts for non proprietary items
below $100,000 would be procured on the basis of LIT with the invitation of
1/   On the basis of the proposed industry allocation, about 75% or $37.5
million of the credit would be allocated directly to public sector units.
However, of this amount about $30 million would flow into the private
sector as intermediate goods (e.g. yarn).



- 38 -
bids from not less than three suppliers. Any contract requiring proprietary
items of equipment or spare parts may be let on a negotiated basis. It is
estimated that about 75%, by value, of the items will be procured under ICB
and be subject to IDA's post award review.
114.      Disbursement.  Disbursements will be made against the foreign ex-
change costs of qualifying imports/services on the basis of withdrawal appLi-
cations prepared by the Bangladesh Bank and forwarded to IDA. To meet GOB's
needs for foreign exchange to cover firm commitments during the period
January 1, 1980 to March 31, 1980, it is recommended that US$5.0 million
of retroactive financing to cover expenditures made after January 1, 1980,
be allowed (Schedule 1, paragraph 2(b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The proposed Credit is expected to be fully disbursed within 24
months, i.e., by February 1982.
115.      Taka Fund.  As under previous imports program credits, GOB will
deposit taka funds, equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the proposed
Credit, in an account currently maintained with the Bangladesh Bank and
would utilize these funds for development expenditures under its development
programs. GOB would furnish to IDA quarterly reports on amounts actually
released from this account to IDA-financed projects, (Section 3.04(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
116.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
117.      Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 71, 78 and 109 to 113, of this report.
The issue of import licenses covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating
not less than US$25.0 million has been made a condition of effectiveness (see
Section 4.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Special conditions
of disbursement require that at least half of the proceeds of the proposed
Credit be disbursed for textile, paper/board, fertilizer and export-oriented
industries (excluding the jute industry) where IDA has ongoing action programs.
118.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit is in conformity with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 39 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
119.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
January 22, 1980                                           by
Ernest Stern



ANNEX I
-40 -                                            Page 1
TBL"E 34
UJNGLADESN - SOCl INDICATORS  ATA SH?
WERESCZ CEOVPS (AUSTRO ACAE5
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. DK.)                                              - 105N RCEUT              AGES
TOTAL           144.0                                                 Sol         Smm     lElT EIGRIE
GxIcCIIUORAL     99. 9                              MMST RECIT      GIGRPElC    iNCOmE       INCONZ
1960  /b   1970 A  tsT5TE h         RGIOB  I   GROUP Lg   GDQUP Z
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                 40.0        60.0     90.0           191.1      209.6       467.5
ENERrY CONSUMI'TION In CAPITA
(XILOGRAMS OF COAL EzIVALUNT)        ..         ..      33.0            69.1       83.9      262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR CNlLIOBS)    51.4         68.3     61.2
UDR41 POPULATION (PIT  OF TOTAL) 5.2            7.6       9.3           13.2       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROOJETIOS
POPULATION IN DEA  2000 OXILLIONS)                   145.0
STAfOlXAR  POPULATION OP5LLIOUS)                     334.0
TEMR STATIOXARY POPULATIO  IS 5ZAC=                 2165.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DC.                     357.0      674.0    564.0             86.6       49.4       45.3
PU SQ. IN. AGRCMTUAL UN         540.0       683.0    513.0           330.2      252.0      149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUR: (PCET)
0-14 nRS.                        44.3       U6.4      46.0           46.3        63.1       45.2
15-64 TnS.                        52.5       51.0      51.0            52.4       53.2       51.9
65 SRS. AND ABOVZ                  3.2        2.6       3.0             3.1        3.0        2.8
POPULATION GRO1 RAE (PIRCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.9      2.5             2.4        2.4        2.7
MA                                 ..         6.7      6.3             6.1        4.6        6.3
CRUDE BSU  RATE (PZU TEOUSAND)    49.0          8.0     66.0            46.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DATH RATE (PER TSOUSAND)    23.0         20.0     16.0            16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RT               3.5         3.1      3.2             3.2        2.9         2.7
fAMILY PLAItJG
ACCZPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       35.6   1103.1
USRS (PICEIr or ARRED WE)    ..               ..        .9             7.9       12.2       13.2
FOOD AND NU ON
DNDEX OF M0M PRODUCTION
PE CAPITA (1969-71-100)         107.3       101.0     98.0            99.6       98.2       99.6
PF CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CA'LRIES (PECI   OF
REQUIIKCTS)                    89.1Of      89.0     93.0            93.0       93.3       96.7
PaOTEINS  (GRAMS PU DAY)         42.6f         ..     5S.5            56.1       52.1       54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AMD PULS        9.2/f        *-      ao             10.4       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RAE     29.0        25.0      23.0           19.2       18.5        11.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SMH  (YES)   42.0          45.0      47.0            69.1       49.3       54.7
INANT MORTALITY RAT! (PU
ThOUSAND)                            ..       153.0    140.0              ..      105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAF WAT  (PECENT OF
POPULATlOI)
TOTAL                              ..        45.0     53.0            31.5       26.3       34.4
URBAN                              .         13.0     15.0            63.9       58.5       57.9
RRAL                               ..         7.0     55.0            20.1       15.8       21.2
ACCESS TO ZXCRLTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         6.0      5.0            15.7       16.0       40.8
URBAN                              ..         ..      40.0            66.8       65.1       71.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..             2.5        3.5       27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIA              ..      7600.0jl 11350.0         7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NUING PON             ..    72030.0  53700.0          12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PEE HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         11000.O/h   8120.0.  4430.0           2738.4    1417.1       726.5
URN                                ..         ..        ..              ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPAL BED            ..         ..        ..              ..       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVEAGE SIZE OF aOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        5.3        5.4
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..        4.9        5.1
RURAL                              ..          .         .              ..        5.4        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PESONS PER ROOM
MOTAL                              ..         ..        .               ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..
ACCESS M ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWLLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..       22.5        28.1
JRBAN                              ..         ..        3.0t            .        17.8        45.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..         ..         9.9



41-                                    ANNEX I
Page 2
TAMJ IA
RMSGLADRSE - SOCIA~ICAS  D           SAT
MmCE  hZZRT ES 1T,h ) -
SAME     Nm 
INMT VZA         GBO6AMIC    DICOIE         DICOU
1980 X      1970 /b ZSTDIx    /b                      U Jc      /d    cup  Is
AWFS7D  DaxLLJT  =TOS
7ftfle4:     T L                   47.0         61.0       83.0            S9.5        63.3         82.7
mu4                   4.0         80.0      106.0             74.9       79.1         87.3
U3                    21S.0       42.0       60.0             43.7       48.4         73.8
Sx=3fl:   TOTAL                     8.0         19.0      23.0             19.5        16.7         21.4
lilE                  14.0        30.0       34.0             27.8       22.1         33.0
RImm                   1.0         *.0       II.O             10.0        10.2        15.3
?WCKAL  SL. (OF szwmaSS           )   1.0          1.0        1.0              1.3        5.6          9.8
EPpl-TEAM& AMC
P1`2124A2..                                     49.0       55.0             42.2       41.0         34.1
S     ZCCRRA2?                        ..        26.0      24.0               ..        21.7        23.4
AWDULT LIRACT X=   (mZT)              21.6/1         ..      22.0             25.5       31.2         54.0
cus nVtrSUD
POP2   2                              . .        0.4       0.4/L            2.3         2.8          9.3
UrDIO SScczv    PE  TOUSh
PO=Lx                                 ..         6.0         ..            15.5        27.2         76.9
TV RZCSOVU PU TOUIU
POPUA..                                           ..         ..              ..         2.4         13.5
EsPAr  ( rUfT  mix.
U )29S'  CsRCMAg  M
isMWSAD POPMAULIO                       ..          ..        5.0             6.2         5.3         18.3
CtUI A.U L                  P   CATU   ..           ..         ..              ..         1.1          2.5
LABOR, 91CR
TOTAL LAmR 1010  (TODUSAS)    18516.0          23402.0   29900.0
7VIALE (PE1T)                      15.2         16.5      17.0             21.4        24.8        29.2
ADUOILT5 (PERCENT)                 86.8         S5.9       78.0            66.3        69.4         S2.7
DIuSTS (PUKIT)                      3.3          3.5       7.0              9.6        10.0         11.9
PARTICZPATI)OV RA= (PURCT)
TOTAL                                 36.0        34.6       34.4             35.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                  58.7        55.8       55.3             52.3       52.4         48.8
FEAL                                  11.4        11.8       12.1            15.7        18.0         20.4
!tC14Tc DEPSlWUCY UAIo                   1.3         1.4        1.3              1.3        1.2          1.4
PRCUT OF PUVATE DZW
ERZVD  ST
Hr;aST S          oRECEPTr 0m1 soSEDs   18.33/  16.7k        ..              ..          ..         15.2
12 MST 20 P 2CUT OF UMSESOLDS  M.57             42.37        ..              .,          ..        4.2
LoWEST 20 PRECT Of IIZOEWDLDS    6.9       7    7.97k        ..              ..          ..          6.3
LWST 40 PUCUT o0  86uSzLD8   17.9T              19.677       ..              ..          ..        16.3
POVERiY TAR&=   OUS5
ESTThATE  ABSOLUTE POTEnT!IN
LEMVE  (USS mP   CAPTA)
013424                                ..          ..      110.0            86.5        99.2       241.3
AL                                   ..           ..      91.0             74.2        78.9       136.6
EsTnIAD  vRam POVEN  DU
TLVL CSS   r COrITA)
11M                                  ..           ..         ..              ..        91.9       179.7
MAUL                                 ..           ..         ..            50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMATE  POPLATON BELOW ABSOLTEZ
POVRrY DICONE LEVEL (P2REZNT)
TRNAM                                ..           ..      55.0             44.3        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..      74.0             52.4        53.9        37.5
.,Mot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    Tbe adjusted group averas for each indicator are popualato-weighted Seoetric IYan*. excluding the extre
values of tbe idicator and the moet populated country in ech troup.  Coverage of contios ewng the
indleaeors depends on availabillty of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any yar between 1959 and 1961; for 1.970, betweon 1969
and 1971; and for lost Recent Estimate. bete.n 1974 and 1977.
Ic    South Aia;  Id  Low Income ($20 or lees per capita 1976);  1-  Lower Middle Income (3231-550 per capita.
1976);   /f  Av. 1961-65;  /i  Ragistered. not aLl practicing in zhe country;  /h  Govt. eatablisbhents
only; ,' 1972; /t 1963-64; /k 1966-67; /I 1962: /I 1973.
osvt Recent Estimate of GLP per capita is for 1978.
.AuguSt, 1979



-42-
ANNEX I
Page 3
ACtual                        Ftataatd           1960.   195        1973-            6791945197/
A    166912:2',73  1974/75   1976/77         197 7/78          196     1970      1978           16-           947   977
NATIZNAI AOCC0INTS
In Constant 1972.1973 Prices & Exchange RLates            Avrae Annual Growti, Rates           As Percent of 3D1
5ross Domestic Prodact             *,010    5.,833    6 , 14     7,255              7,833            4.       3.3       6.1           98.5   101.8   101.1
G 7ains from Termas cf 'Irde   )             89         -     -117        -148                -88                                               1.5    -1.8    -1.1
flrous rDomestic  ncome            6.101    5         6-3    ei39   107              7r,7-45          5.6      2.5       5.8          100.0   100.0   100.0
Dmort (inci.. FSs)                   879       747      703         506                791           20.6      6.8       0.7           14.4    11.0    10.2
Extorts       , imoort capacity)-   598        369       197        243                315           12.3   -14.6       -3.2            9.8      3.1      4.1
Resource Gap                                  =73i     _T_         2                                                                    4.6    7-       -7
Consumption Fypenditures          5,668    5.817    6,404         6,764              7.521            5.7      3.6       5.2           92.9   100.1    97.1
Investment       (intl.. stocks)    714       394       499         660                700           13.3      8.8      12.2           12.9      7.8      9.0
Domestic Savings                     433        16       -6         343                294            4.3    10.0       72.0            6.8    '0.1       2.9
Nationa.l Savings                    416        32        10        378                279            8.7    20.5       56.3            7.1      0.2      3.6
9MCHA1ISE TRADE                              Asnuaa Data at Current Prices                                                             Ai Percent of~ Total
I,Morts
Capital goods                       .,       10       135         Z27                318                      7. 2.9                    ..    16.8    23.5
Intermediate goods 6rL.uels                 176       386         270                459                      .       21.9             .      30.4    34.1
9'ue13 and related materials
a' which:  Petroleum                       23       1.55        141                166..                    .      48.5              .      10.0    1.
ConsF  trion  oods                          42 1                                     406             .                                  .    4Z.8      50.1'
Tota  Narch.    arts (cif)  **~~7  727                  1742 851349                                        12.2                   100.0   100.0
Exports
Primu277 prodscts, ~l. fuels)       .       145       119         220                203              .       ,        7.0             .      40.9    40.6
F~iels and related materials
of' which:  Petroleum
Manufactured goods                          195       239         24                 294              .        .       8.5             ..       L_    5-
Total Merah. ~~~~~~otts  (fob)         7TO         __W                   9 7                              7.9                   100.0   100.0
Touxrisr and Bomer- Tr&ae
M4erchandise Trade Indices                     Average 1,9732-73   10
Export Price  zIndex               I1l0a13                         1                137               .       .       6.5
inoo;rt Price Index                52       100       215         189               I8SO                      .      12.5
Tersms of Trade Index             118       100        62          62                76               .       .      -5.6
Exports Volume Index              148       100        80         115               107               .        .      1.5
VAWLE .DOED BY SECTOR              Aonual Data at 1972-73 Prices end Exchanle Rates               Average Annual lrewtb Rates          At, Percent of Total
Agricu t,ure                    3,542    3.403    3,712        4,020              4,318               .       .       4.8             59        59       57
Industry au,_ Miming              420       41.2     466          582               642              .       .        9.2              7         7        8
Ser-.iue                       2.050    La84      2.146       2.442                                 ..       .       7.4             34       34       35
Total                           6,012    5,663    6,324         7,044             7.605                               6.1            100       100      100
PUBLI.C FflSAXE                                                                                                                          As Per. n
(Central Gov_errment)
C-uc'-nt P-ceipt-                 317       280      469          563               66               .        .      34.2            5.3       7.2     s.5
fitxpennitures             365       364,     419         464                553              .               16.8            6.1       6.4     7.1
try  ;avlnge        ~~~      ~~48  -84   50o         9                 112                                            7-08       0.8      l.
ot 7- :;blic Sector..                     .         .....                                                 ..         .
D  *".i   . ctor investment   421       239       248         516               514.                      .      10.3            7.0       3.8     6'. 6
us5 $ mLi2..oc iU
C'JRREBY SEX-1FnITUE DETILS                             Actual                 Rst3maed       OSEII ON                              Ac uAv. 1977178  P sad ER
As    Total current ExPend.)             1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 199777/1            8      PIThIC SECTOR                                   I' of Toa
Eduation                                  ..       5.   '_T.3    12.4           13.0       nT7MET6MM PRCSGRAMT' M                               1900"
Other .3ocial S-r',i--                     .        4.5      3.6      4.2         4.9       Social Sectors                              267        13.2                        -
Agriculture and                                                                             Agriculture                                 600        27.6
other Econoic SeTvicss.                            5.0    12.5       6.6        7.0        Industry end Mining                        380         17.5
Administration and Defense                 .        70.4    57.1    61.5         61.2        Power                                      314        14.4
COther                                     ..       4.6    12.3    15.3          13.9       Transport end csnmications                  387        17.8
Tota.l Current Expenditurea                       100.0   100.0   100.0         100.0       O-ther                                      206         9.5
____________________________________________________________________________   T otalTot   E xEx endittu ess2,1744           100.0
SElCTED  _VSL:ATORS                                 1960-      1965.-      1973-               FIRA.CINO
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)              1969       1970        1976                                                           57         2.
Average ICOR'                                          ..        7         0T.89                  Public S,.ctor Sains                    37         3.
import Elasticity                                     .        1.29        1.11                   Progren Lid COUnterPart                 838        38.6
?mrgin51 Dxwsstic sa7ings Rate                         .       0.22        0.05                   Foreign Project Aid                     605        27.8
Marginal National savings Rate                         ..      0.35        0.05                  other (hinc. dam. borroftqg)             174         8.0
Total fiaseCins                      2,174       100.0
:,ABCp FORCE AIM                                 Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Work1,er(17.  73  Prices.    c x.Rts
0U1JTI   WORSER                in Mill ions       -, c' _Total          1961i -7?3         In U.S. Dollars      Peon   fAvert ge           1970e73
19 60/ 61     7ZL7 19 60/61   1972/73  Growth Rate            19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth -Rate
Agriculture                        16.1        20.5      83        78          2.0                .         166          ..76
Industry                            1.0         1.8       5         7          5.0               ..         229         ..         105
Service                             1.8         3.9      10        15          6.7               .          484         ..          222
Total                              18 .9       26.2    10-0      1O00           .               248         21-7       100         100a        -4.9
nout applicable        -  l11 or negligible
not available        -. lSs than balf the smallest unit shown
o.te,  Figures are o. fiscal year basis (July 1-isei 90).Date prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
(  Pian targets.



43 -                                            ~~~~~ANNEX I
_____O_SCIA___CAOR                                                              Page   4
Notes: Although the data, are drown from sources generally judged the mat aUthoritative and reliablt, it should also be oted that they say not he interna-
tionolly'  orpprsble bece-se of the lack of standardIsed definitions and concepts used by different countries In colleting the date. The data are, nonetheless,
useful to dt-oolbe orders of magnsitode, indicate trends, and charanterise certain major differences between ozotria..
The ad'-tod scour averages for eac h indiostor art population-wighted geoymtric maeno, ecluding the ectree values of thte indicator sad the most populated
Country io each group. flue to lack of data, group averages of all, indicators for Capital Surpluo Oil. Rap-rtera sod of indicatoro of Aoesa. to Water and E-oets
tispecol, do-ing, inrone DiotrIbution and Poverty for other country groupo are pspulatico-weighted geomettric means wIthout extcluiisiM Of the entreat values nod
the moot popuated coutry.  Since the coverage of  ocutries eamng the indiososds.s  naalblty ofdt adi   ot unfsMA aut ion mat be exercised
in reacio  avoastoof on  indcato  to  nothr. These avernges are matLsueu        npoitoeo  'expctd"vaue  whM com arn  the values of one
iniator at. s time OQwe  te country sad reference groups.
(ACD AREA (thouand sq.m.,)                                                               Acoesos to Excrete Ddietsal (percoat of    siato)d-4.total  urban~ sad rural-
Total - Total surface area. comprising land area and inland waters.                      Miushe of people (total, urban,an  rural) servedb  exrete disposL. so
Agrtcultural -Wett recet estimate of agricultural area used temporarily'                  percentages of their respective poeslationr. Excrete disposal say include
or permanently fir orop., pastureo, market and kitchen gardens or to                   the collection and disposal, with or without treatment, of iusan ex-rte
-    - -          ~~~~Itofollow                                                                            and wate-water by water-born  systems or the use of pit privces end sla
GNP PER CAPITA          GNP)-  ti per capita esodmacec at currest market prices,            inta                    - a.Population divided by oumter of practicing physicians
cail)-tcdibyoBase  conversion method as World Bank Atlas (19,76-78 basis);               iijliirea.i alchool*t  un11ivesty level.
1961, 197, nod .1978 dsta.                                                             Popu]ation pe Tri.c Perso  - Pspulaticm  divided by outber of practicing malc
ENERGY CONSIJMFION PER CAPITi - Annuai conosumption of Cowseruial enerY                     and female graduate nurses, prsoeidal nurses, and assistant nurses.
(COal and l1ignte, ~Petroleu, natural gas sad bydro-,  =leia, --0 ge.-                 lpOnuatio  per Hoscivtsa Re  - tonal,turbn   ndral-Population (t00.1, urin,
thermal elc-triolty) in kiiograms of  -sI equivaleat per capita; 1960                     and rural) divided by their respeciv  m        Ve  ohspital beds available in
1970, and 1976 data,                                                                     public and private gene ral and epecili-ed hoanpital sad reshbilitation  -eotero.
.Hospitals are establishmantot permanently otaf fed by at leant one idysician.
PORUOATIZd  AND VITAL STATTISTICS                                                           Esasblishaento providing princIpslly custodial c          are wr nt isciuded. Rural
Total bypeltion. Mid-Year (illionn( - A. of Guly 1; 1960, 1970, and                      hospitals, however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed
,977 dt.by a "idwicia  (but by a medical assistant, nurset, siddife, etc.) stick offer
Urb an tpulnio  _peoet of total( - Ratio of urban to total population;                    in-patient ..ccoodnsltioo sd provide * limited range of -dioa1 facilitie..
diff fert definitions of urban arean may affsect compahaility of data                AdM.lmIsios-e  Hospittal Re  - Total number of admissions to or discharges fron
amog coutries; 1960, 1970, and 1975 dsi.thopial  divided byth                                                       omber of beds.
Pop,lation Projectiont
Population in Year 2000 - Current population projectiocs are based on              BDStOING
1975 total population by age and ses and their mortality and fertility            Avrg   ico   oshl  pronprhousehold) - total. urban, and rural -
Intoc. Projection parometero for mortality rates emprine of those                    A  ouehl         cnits  fagopo   oivdaswosasliigqatr   n
lov_l  nonuog life expectany at birth incoreaning with countryn.                     their sain seaLo.  A boarder or lodger may or may sot ho included in tie
Per c_Pit. mooe  level, and Peale lift sopectancy otabilining at                     hounebold for statlotical purposso.
77.5 p00cc.  The parameters for fertility rate also have three levesI              Averge osusker Of pters.n. per roo  - total, urban  and nors  - OeAg . e Ononic
nannilogdetido  in fertility according to income level and pant                      of persons- per-'oo  in all urban, and rural occupied  -ovotional doellingo,
family pl innig performance. Each onatry is then assigned one of these               repectively.  Duollingo eclode non-permanent otcturen and uono-opied pa-to.
,,ise c-binations of mortality and fertility trends for projection                 Access to Electricity (percenjt of .dweflingn( - total, uban  and rusi -  to-
purce.-                                                                              ventidol d-ellini  wit  electriity Icliig qurtr  soperesnago of
itationo`v ocolatioc - na  iticonry population there is so gro..th                     total, urban, and rural deellingo respectively.
oinc tic iirti rat e ioz equal to the death rate, and also the age
otruotur  reni.s contant. This ic achieve d Only after fertility eaten          EfDWATION
decline to the r-placemes,t level of unit set reproduction rate, when            -Adjusted Ebsrllmnt Ratios
car  generetioc  f  cs,me  repiacec itself exactly.  The etattoosry pepu-            PrimaY schol-  toa,aead female -Gross total, alt and female  -1ro1-
mdcc. cie wan estimated cc the basic of the projected characteristics                  sent.ofalagstthprmy leve  a  percentages of reopecti-e pr-sory
of ito popuistics is the year- 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility              scolaepopulaticon; cormally includes children aged 6-1u  y-r  hut
rate to repiacnn  level                                                                adjusted for different lengths of primary eduoation; I.e countries outh
Pear ottiu    77ioey  oulto  Ic reacted - Thr pear  behe  stetlonary puplatlos           univeral education enrollment amp exceed 100 perunet oioe soo  pupils
n~_ice has teec rarmed.                                                                  are blwor shov  its official school age.
-cqaiotsity                                                                        Seour   chool - total, asic and female - fCputed noo                  - -;yooor
Per op. ha M-ld-year populattos per square diloteto  (110 hectares) of                   educatios requires at least four years of approvd pri.n,   noontys
totl  re                                                                               provides general voational, or teacher training intsoti-ta.  too pupils
Per cc. km   gricultural land -Compuned an there for agricultural land                   usually of 12 to 17 yearn of age; corepondence osrc    e gosoraly
only.                                                                                  socluded.
Po~ atin Ae lcoctu~r(pecen) -Child-e  (0-lb years), working-age                Vocational ceolltspi (croetofr secon.dary.) - Vocational inotitotiono islulde
15-6iyar)  an   etie   (    easad over ) as percetages of mid-year                      toohoical, inotial, or othe  pora    sick operate isdepocdestly Or s
.popslntios ; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                  departasnto of secondary institutions.
PoPulstilo  Growth Rate (p-ern) - tota    - Anul eroth rates of total aid-                Nepil-teenie  ratio - icrimar,. and as...sdsry - Total students  enrolled it
year populations for 1990t,  1960T-70  and 1970-77.                                      primary and se`odsry lcvsl  divided by numiers Of teachers ic tie cOrro-
PPIeosltion Gi-oth Rate  tru-esti  - urban - Annual growth rstee of urban                  spunding levels.
population  for 1950-6O, 1960-70, Band 1970-75.                                        Adl.t literacy rate (peroent) - Literate adults (nile to read and writo  as
Crude Bieth onto (Per thousand) - Annual live births per thouand of mid-                    apercntage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
pear pspuletion; 1950, 1970, and 1977 data.
Crde hth gate (per thouand) -Anuldeatho per th-uand of sid-pur                     CNSUPRrCICAu
popultion;1*0,1970, and 1977 date.                                              Pasenger Cus'Per th ous.an d copulation) - Pasoenager care coaprise motor .orn
Orcu  sepodutiosRac- Areragr outer of d-ugitors . .oa  s ill hoar                  seating  lesbha  eight peronot; excludec anhlan-co, hearoeo and silltesy
ic her normal reproductive period if etc  -perience  pren...t ago-                     vehicles.
specific ferIlity rates;  -ously fiv-year averages ending in 1960,                   Radio Receiver  (p-c thouoand poplation) - All types of recivers for radio
1970, and i975.                                                                        brosdcasto to general Psblic per thousand of populetion; ecoludes unliceso.ed
Panily Planing - Acooptor-  Annua  (thouands) - Annual number of                         receivers In coantrica and is yeses when registration of radio sets cOo in
-eopioro of birth-costr-t devicec und-er upicec of ostios..l feamlty                  offot; dsts for recent yearo ma not be  -peparailo siore  -.t countries
plningprgamboliohed licensing.
Family  lannin  - jo ropercent Of amrr   or(-Psrcntago Of maried                 TV Reo-iver  (coo tsoad coslaItics) -     receivers for heo..nsot to generol
omsOf child-bearing age (15-i4 yess  who onbinkh-cotrol devices                     pulc  e hosn              ppntics  enclue  unlicensed TV retceivers ino..uotri-n
to Ball maried woene in Bsoe, age group.                                               and in years when regiotratins of fT seto wao in effect.
P101 ~~~~~~~~                                                     Nenspaper~~~~~_' '  ' fioato  (perthousan  neylation   - ihoc  the arergo  iclto
FOOr, AND  "RITICU                                                  .1~~~~~~~~~~~o   dily general interes  nespaper   dtefined so  . Periodical poiliostics
loden of FoodProduction pee Csplts  t969-7  ij  -lden of per c.pits                      devoted primaily to recording general1 neon.  It is considered to he "daily'
annual production of nB odos          ute. Production es-ldec  -ds and                 if it eppe-  at leact fou  times a. wend.
feed and i n cc  aledar year hoois.  C-nditi.e corer pri..ry goods                    ieaAna   tedneprIptor  er-hsdo   h   udro   ikt
(.. egaroae instead of sugar) which are edible and ..ht.i   ustri..ts               .oId during the yer,inlding eissions to dries-in Cisea-  and nobiir
(g.coffee and tea -  eseoluded).  Aggregate produotion of each conusty              antis.
no .Boed os netlo...  average produser price seighta.
Per onpit. supply Of calories (pe-st of r-osirencotn) - Computed from              LABORP F0RCE
enera  eoiv-lent of o-t food cPppji-o oasinct  country p- er plist                -Tctsl,ininr Porco;-~~s   EcOsn-i-aly -cti-e Peroo, loclodiog or-n
per day.  Aveilbile supplies comprioc d-netic pe-duotion, imports less               fo-rcesad oneaploYed tot coclding hono-i-c, students, ric. Oofjitit-,
e.porto, and changes in ot-c.  Oct -upplie-e-1lde animal feed, needs,                in cartoo  coont,ioc ar  not c-np-rol-
quntitties used in food prOc-inicg, and I' sto. -* dioteibutioc. Require-          7ggpeyrcent(   Pmealo inir forte as percentage Of to~tal inbr foroc.
neoto were estimated iy PAt issod on pbyoioiogi-a  ocodo fP or nrl                                    .~ - Labor force in f seesdg, forestry, tooting sod
otilvity and health conidering envir-ne.tal tempnrat-r, body weighte,                fishing as perocotage off total  bier force.
age andnon diodtributieoa  of popuIieso, and allowing 1.0 percent for              Industry (percent) - Labor force is mining, conot-otio-, -naoftoringnd
cate at househol d level.                                                            electricity, sat-r and gee e  percentage of total lame foc.-
Per ospits ouPPly ofprtnic  !romo pertda) - Protei  content of Per                   ParticipainRt   pret)   total  ale,and f'nae- Participation or
eapitsnet suply offood pe day.Net npply of food is defined an              activity rateseecmue   nttl   aeBadPcl   ao   oc   spr
shove. Requiremnete for all countrito establIshed by 0000 prOvido for 5               etae   f total, male and reals Population of nil agen resp-ctirely;
sdoims  ollnance of 60 grsm  of total pe-tis per day and 20 gram  of                 1960, 1970, and 1975 date.  These are IWo' participation rates reflecting
anial and Pulse protein, of which 10 gram  should he antial protein.                 age-sec structure of tie popuolation, and long tic  tesod.  A f-c estimatoc
These standards are lower then those of 75 grams, of itotl protein and               are frm  nationl  orcs
P5gasof  Jantoo  protein asa vrago for the meld, propose d by F'AO            Rocsi DedenoY Ratio -  Ratio Of populatios under 15 and 65 and over an
in tic Tird torld Food Surey                                                          ielbrforce is age group of 15-6u years.
Per osits poteiscuspl, fro ailand noIse - Proceis supply of food
drvd frs snimals and puiaes to gram  per day.                                 ICSDIRmtON
Chmild (ae   -)Ootli  ao(e  huad       nuldah   e  huad                                Percentage of Pricette incom    thoi incas  mod kind) - Received by richest
inage grop 1-c years, to children is this age group; for oust deve1-                  5percent, elciest 00 peon,pors20 peruent, and poornot hO percent
op-ng countries dais derived from life teblec.                                         of households.
HEIALThJ                                                                               POVERTY TAPRn  GROUPS
lie=op %tnyes  itj     s(eas   Average. numher of pears of life                       Esiae   bolt   oet  Iscoor icon  (O              ercato)    uba  sot rural-
remainng si  irth;  950, 170, ad 1977. data.                                   Absolute povrty income level  in tha   noelvlblwsioacnnl
Infant Mrtot2ity Pete (per tbsuosd) - Annual deaths of infants under one                 nutritionally adtequate dint plus  -soential non-food reqairceneto on not
yea  of age per thousand 2itr  births.                                                 aff-rdale.
AccBeo  to  a    ae  pren   fpsaais -. total urban, and rura  -                         Estinated Relative Poverty nom  leve  (01$ coy ospita) - urban and rurl
Seter Of P-oPle, (ttl ran, an   orl   it   bsc le Beecs  to                            Rural relati- poverty iccomo 1cool in oe-thilrd of -orrge per Ospi ts
safe saner supply (inoludes treated suface water  or untreated hot                     personal leo-  of the country. UrbacIevel is derived from, the rural love
unconiaminatod mater suh as that fren Protected borehole, springs,                     with adjustment for higher coot of kiriAg in uria  areno.
and sanitary melI    a  percentagen of their respective populations, in              EsiatdPouoto  Rel1  Absolute Povety incom  Levl)- ccc    -uba   n
an  man ares a public fountain or stsndpost located not meore thakn                    rura  - P"rooat of population turban ad rural  wh rc "bsolut  poor
200 meters from  house nay be considered an heing sithin reasonable
eccene of that houac.  In rura  areas reasonable access scod imply
tiat the housewife or mashebrs of the household do not have to spend a.                                                       tononic and dola  Isi Dots    oi
dIsproportionate par-t of the day in fetching the famdly,s eater seeds                                                   EctOsnl  Anulyosi  and Projections Department
August 1979



ANNEX I
_ 44 -                                                          Page 5
RUA= OF   AS =N  AL MTA  AP0 MM
Mo(ata in ,jl;mO  of U.S. doDl"  t cvrr,t priceJ
Actual                          lotlotd         o1 cjd        Av-ras AM ]1 l   0.th 0.O
V"/70  1972772  1974/75  1910117    197/7           1977                     1974 - 1979
SMU81 SA11W  OF PADY       S
po0tV  (ir.l. 9S)                         315          369           358          529       -,2                648                     13.7
-639        -747        -1,402         -957        -1,927         -1,F79                       9.6
7Xorw (icl 1sg 3j78      -1,044         -428                        1                           7.4
Interest (n.t)               I
Dirmct 2n.toont Ioo.8 I
Work...' Rdtt.mn             I                           45             7           66
Pritot Direct Tn0emto
OffPiolal Capital 60a..                                 482           397          229           38e            400                      13.6
fbl ic lnTt 1,l s.
Pnblic MkLT.7.r                                        76           527          273          411            685                       5.2
-ReD.Ymonte    ~..                            -           -23          -14          -58             -54-
Not    nt _ibw                                                       502 lbR                                   0t41                      4.8
other MLT b7-
Di.basr.t0t
-Rovrmnts                                 _
Not DisburaoWdt.
CGpitol   o ao.tioo.   ..                             -205           334          344            16            -32
Clunge   jut 7uSoaxoa  (-. inrr  *)                     -20          -196          -80            24             25                                Actaol La'/   Per7iod    R1tio7tod
Gros0  R.00      (snd pariod)                .          107           263          293           269            24B                         7197T12   1974177   L975776    79767    1977/78
lXER r AN  107  221E0
Pnblic Debt Out. k DIsbursb  d     228      1,366     1,812      2,065       2.556
0FF1.ct.3. GrAnts h&  rant-li;te                        514           368          338           452          Dterot on Public Debt               -        10         21         25         27
ReGpyoento  Mn Public Debt         -         25         78         17         51
Publi't HVLT Lean                                                                                             Total Public Debt Service           -        35         99        42          78
two                                                     -             -            -             -          Othor Debt Service (net)
IDA                                                    68           150           50           211          Total Debt Service (not)
Other  i1tilat ... I                                    11           87           84            74
Govarruto                                  .          24            678          200           376       Brden on E6port Sarndng  (i)
Soppliato                                              55            17            2            11
Fi-ni.l Inotituticc-                                    -             -           5            13          Publi. Debt Service                        9.8        22.4        7.9       13.7
d. "                                                                               -             -         Total Debt Service
Pybllc Lo" n" ri                                __-4-                                                      TDS-Di- t Dvewt.  7nc.
Total public DiL7' Luoo.                                338           932          341L'a  g. Tt   oft.    De.t
-    -                        I~~~~~~~verage  Ten   of Publi  Debt
Actual Debt Ditelondirg on Joo0 30. 1978                           Int. a % Prier Twr DDg             .       2.0         1 5        1.4        1 3
U UE9AL   D                                      r iiora i On7                 Percont                          Al rt. as S Prioer You  DOD                5.0         5.7        0.9         2 5
World Bank                                     m                                  T
MDA                                                  554                       21 7                        n!D Debt Oct. & Dbureed
Other Naltilateral                                     64                       2.5                          r       % Public Debt 6 D                   4.0         3.0        2.7         2.2
Oover-sento                                         1.748                      68 4                          '  a. S Public Debt Service          -        -         1.6        7.5        4.4
-3i...                                                111                       4 3
Financial Intitut-ina                                  26                       1.0                         M06 Debt Ott. & Disbureed
Bonda                                                   -                         -                            as % Pblic Debt OhD             7.1      18.7        21.0       22.7       21.7
Public Debt. n.e.i                                      -                                                    ' 0. S  Public Debt Service          -      2.3         2.0        7.5        4.9
Total Publc l hLT Debt                                                        100. 0
Other  MLT Debts
Short-te.r Debt (diab. on3J)
not applicable                                                     e  ot   retivrte
.nt 0avil0bl .                                                     - nil or negligible
.ot available saprstaly                                               lm--   o  then r.3f the
but included in total                                                  o,ellaot unit hoN,1
9cc-.r 1978



-- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                          Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    428.28        -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                   25.00      1.70
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                       13.00     0.37
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.00     1.90
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re--
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                    7.30     0.16
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      3.63
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                    25.00     5.28
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50      4.33
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                          8.70     0.51
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                  20.00    11.16
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.00    25.17
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00      9.94
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.00    19.24
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.00    13.35
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00      7.61
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.50      3.83
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.00    14.04
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00      9.97



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                         16.00   15.37
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                         21.00   19.00
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                    10.00    8.96
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                  5.00    4.00
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                        75.00    8.17
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                      21.00   18.55
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                      25.00   24.98
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                    7.00    6.99
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                      6.00    5.81
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                19.00   18.05
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                       75.00   19.08
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                  10.00    9.96
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                      6.00    6.00 /b
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                       25.00   25.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                          32.00   32.00 /b
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
District                               28.00   28.00
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                      22.00   22.00
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports             25.00   25.00
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                          25.00   25.00 /b
964    1979   Bangladesh   Second Highway Project                    10.00   10.00 /b
Total,                                                      54.9  1,219.28  464.12
of which has been repaid                                  0         0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,218.88
Total undisbursed                                            0      464.12  464.12
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not effective.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: January 31, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. IDA financed portions of Parts D and E (Primary
and Feeder Roads) have been substantially completed. Some feeder roads
originally scheduled to be financed under the Credit have been financed by
World Food Program as part of an agreed program to meet cost escalation. The
Government has requested WFP finance for additional feeder roads.  This request
is currently under consideration. Work on the completion of Part B and C
(Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding generally
satisfactorily. Most equipment under the sub-project is now installed. Com-
missioning and cutover of all VHF base stations and PCO sets at 68 locations
has taken place. Delivery for operation of microwave and UHF systems is sub-
ject to corrective measures, and was due to be completed by end December 79.
Government and TTB have stated that physical transfer of the assets under the
sub-project from Cyclone Reconstruction Board (CRS) to TTB was made as from
July 1, 1979, when action to dissolve CRS was undertaken. Formal transfer
of these assets will take place through the issuance of an Executive Order,
which has been furnished to IDA for review. TTB indicated that measures are
being taken to complete all works and arrangements for full operation by the
end of December 1979. A detailed report on the actual operational status of
the assets transferred, together with details of TTB/GOB action required to
ensure their full operational use was due to be submitted by December 15, 1979.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project has now been completed three years behind schedule.
Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems, shortages of materials,
equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment as a result of rapid river
erosion during the construction phase. Major agricultural development started
in 1978 will continue for four years. A seven month extension of the Closing
Date is under consideration to allow time for the arrival of some remaining
orders of maintenance equipment.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and will be commis-
sioned by early 1980. Approximately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7
million from the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be con-
solidated to fund the Command Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in
the Northwest of Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been little improvement in project implementation in the
past six months. Key constraints continue to be: Taka shortage, and civil
work construction difficulties. A revised work programme has been finalized
and an extension of the closing date to June 30, 1981 would be considered on
condition that adequate ADP Taka provision is made available by GOB. The main
positive aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract
grower scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well
below appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales
are poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved seeds for multi-
plication. Improvements in seed distribution and marketing are in hand and
marketing consultants have been engaged for this purpose. The Seed Certifica-
tion Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme
is currently under preparation. Future prospects have improved as a result
of GOB's recent strong committments to stimulate foodgrain production and sup-
port intensive seed production efforts.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be coiipleted within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. The 60 primary pump units
are in various stages of arrival and about 30 are expected to be operational
by the year-end. 2,500 secondary pumps are in store and ready for issue, the
target for the 79/80 boro season is 1,100 pumps in the field or 44,000 acres
planted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976, Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. This has been resolved. After a
period of good progress, project civil works have again slowed down due to
shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with the contractors.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the various ministries and
agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organizaLtion and ineffective super-
vision of the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system
(complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project
personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural
credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook
a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an
action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government
in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been satisfactory progress in procurement of engines and
pumps, tools and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports.
Sales of shallow tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The
project will procure in its first phase 2,050 pumpsets which will be distri-
buted by January 1980. Procurement for the second order of about 5,000
shallow tubewells will be based on farmers' preference system. The construc-
tion of workshops is proceeding with only minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing  Date:  June 30,
1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. *The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. Contractor's progress has been slowed by disputes within its
management, but there appears to have been some recent improvement.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
The project is operating reasonably well in the Bogra District,
but not so well in the other districts where lack of transportation impeded
adequate supervision of extension efforts. The situation should improve with
the arrival of additional vehicles. Key problems are coordination between
research and extension, selection of contact farmers and their attendance
during extension agent visits, and inadequate local currency support. In
addition extension agents need to be instructed to limit the number of points
to be covered in each farmer training session. Project staff are working
toward achieving improvements in these areas.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: the first batch of con-
struction contracts, out of a total of possibly 10 batches, have been awarded;
equipment procurement is well underway and the project construction, implemen-
tation and monitoring units have been established. Improvements in the system
for domestic food procurement were identified for implementation in 1979 aman
season. A pilot project for paddy marketing by farmer cooperatives is doing
well in its early stages. However, delays in full staffing and in land
acquisition, and inadequate financial allocations for the project in GOB
Annual Development Plans could slow down progress in the future.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory and all par-
ticipating institutions are cooperating fully. The revised plans for
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) headquarters building and
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI) research stations
have been approved by IDA and prequalification of contractors has been com-
pleted. The BARC Technical Working Groups are progressing satisfactorily.
Progress has been made in selecting the candidates for the PhD training
scheme. Action is needed to (i) fill positions of BARDC Executive Vice
Chairman and two other Board members; (ii) complete PhD overseas training
arrangements and initiate M.Sc. training arrangements in Bangladesh;
(iii) recruit consultants; and (iv) prepare National Research Plan.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the
Government in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri
Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) two regulators have been completed and
in Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) a large program of contracts has been prepared,
which are scheduled to start by end 1979.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective due to delays in appointment of
consultants. Negotiations with one consulting firm broke down. Negotiations
with a second consultant firm are in progress.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project, US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAO, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about VS$197 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site
was undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for
additional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental
financing was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The
soil compaction and foundation work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided
in the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of December 31, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.4 million from the credit, for 122 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$15.0 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been approved for US$3.6 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
As of December 31, 1979 disbursements were US$66.8 million and QAR
had been approved for US$5.6 million.



- 53-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
There has been good progress in training commercial bank staff, dis-
tributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures,
and advertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. The
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementing Banks have
developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed ahead of
schedule. Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun
preparation of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of December 31, 1979 disbursements were about $55.9 million and
QAR had been approved for $16.6 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), building of five new and equipping of
eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is
now 80% complete and is expected to be completed by December 1980. However,
construction has stopped since March 1979 due to lack of funds. The External
Affairs Division of the Ministry of Planning informed the mission that a
decision on the allocation of the required funds is expected soon. If funds
are made available by mid-December 1979, the project could be completed by the
current closing date, December 31, 1980. The fellowship program is nearly
complete. Civil works associated with the technical education component,
although 30 months behind schedule are virtually complete and the polytechnics
are now operating. About 75% of all equipment (in dollar terms) are close to
appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation. Most local cost overruns are
caused by taxes imposed on imported goods. Disbursement as of December 31,
1979 is $18.9 million (90% of the Credit).



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
progressing satisfactorily. Training of teachers for the Agricultural
Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of
instructors to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of
positions, which was not extended to the ATI staff.  Little progress has
been made on the recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development
of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This project has only recently been declared effective. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is presently understaffed and have only the project
architect and an acting project coordinator. The Project Manager (consultant)
has already been selected. The furniture and equipment for the PIU office
would be purchased in the near future. The PIU was scheduled to be fully
staffed by December 1979.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975, Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance,
which declined during the three months preceding the parliamentary elections
in February 1979, has improved again. The internal reorganization of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by
the management study, is underway. This reorganization will not be effective
in improving program implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill
its large number of vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions;
and (b) simplify the administrative, financial and recruitment procedures.
Actions have been assured by the Government on both counts. A program has
been started for the retraining of field workers which should improve their
performance. While the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare
Centers, built through community participation, has been encouraging, the
progress on other buildings in the project has been slower than expected by
the last mission. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of the
credit has also shown less than expected improvements.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit is not yet effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Feni bypass was opened to public traffic on July 1, 1979. Some
shoulder damage occurred during the 1979 monsoon, particularly in areas
where shoulder compaction was incomplete. Work has commenced on shoulder
reinstatement and and was due to be completed by end-December 1979. Iso-
lated pavement failures have occurred, and the reasons for these failures
are currently being investigated. Progress on the RHD headquarters building
is satisfactory and now consists primarily of finishing works. The draft
final report on the Surma River Crossing Study has been reviewed by RED and
IDA, and the consultant is at present making the required amendments to the
Report. Arbitration is proceeding on the contractor's claims on the Sitalakhya
bridge contract. Due to delays in completion of this arbitration, IDA recently
agreed to extend the closing date from December 31, 1979 to June 30, 1980.
Aside from minor finishing works on the RHD buiulding, all project work is
reported to be completed.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$7.7 million (88% of the
Credit). Processing of bills and submission of withdrawal applications for
the remaining balance of the credit are currently underway.



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, all consultants contracts have now been signed and work is underway.
Cr. No 964      Second Highay Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Of the four microwave systems provided for under the project three
are completed and in operation. The fourth system required rebidding due to
price changes during the period when the project was interrupted by Bangladesh's
independence war. Thereafter there were delays due to building construction
and tower erection difficulties; it was due to be commissioned by December
1979, completing the project about four and a half years behind schedule. The
closing date was extended until June 30, 1980 to allow for retention payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date:  July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing local
construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About two-
thirds of the Credit was committed up to October 1979. The remaining corres-
ponds to national trunk and international automatic switching equipment still
to be procured. TTB and Government have now decided on the technique to be
adopted for such equipment (not manufactured locally) and corresponding commit-
ment could be taken in 1980 for delivery only by mid-1982. The rate of physical
installations during FY1979 was about 13,000 lines, showing no improvement from
the previous year. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as a
"Government Board" effective from April 1979. The regulations governing the
functioning of the Board, its powers and responsibilities and relations with
the Government, have recently been drafted, and are being reviewed. Government



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
has stated that the decisions in this matter are being worked out actively and
should be taken and made effective in early 1980. In the absence of satis-
factory accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial positions of the
beneficiary, but estimates indicate it may have to be improved, in particular
in consideration of TTB's present and future development requirements.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
extension of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 12 subprojects
totaling about $5.7 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be
expected to be committed before the end of this fiscal year. The project is
progressing well with no major problems.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been appointed as scheduled to begin design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been engaged to begin design work as scheduled.



- 58 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
This Credit is the eighth in a series of Program
Credit Operations in Bangladesh and, consequently,
preparation for each Credit is a continuing process.
(b) Agency which prepared program:
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and IDA.
(c) Program first presented to IDA:
During negotiations for Seventh Imports Program
Credit in November 1978.
(d) First IDA mission to review program:
Identification mission during February 1979.
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
August 1979.
(f) Completion of negotiations:
January 16, 1980.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature.
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



- 59 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
GOB will:
(a) implement by September 30, 1980 of such actions
as are necessary to give BTMC an after tax rate
of return of 10 percent upon shareholders equity
(paragraph 78 of text);
(b) make revisions to the present export performancce
license system to emphasize value added instead
of total amount or quantity of exports (paragraph
110 of text);
(c) implement new procedures for duty drawback designed
to repay promptly to exporters excise and import
duties (paragraph 110 of text);
(d) publish its export strategy integrating export
targets, policies and plans for FY81-FY86
(paragraph 111 of text);
(e) as a condition of effectiveness issue at least 50%
of the import licenses to be financed under the
credit (paragraph 112 of text).
(f) deposit taka funds equivalent to the amounts with-
drawn from the proceeds of the proposed credit in
an account currently being maintained with the
Bangladesh Bank, and utilize these counterpart
funds entirely to finance its development programs.
GOB will inform the Association annually of the
local currency provisions made in its Annual Devel-
opment Budget for projects financed by IDA; and
GOB will furnish quarterly reports to IDA on the
amounts actually released to these projects (para-
graph 115 of text).



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
BANGLADESH
EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PRODUCTION TRENDS OF SELECTED INDUSTRIES a/
PRODUCTION
FY70      FY73       FY74      FY75       FY76      FY77       FY78           FY79
Industries/Products                            Units
Jute Textiles                          thousand long tons        560.5     446.3      500.2     444.3      477.9     490.1      546.2          501.1
Hessian                                         "              227.7     155.1      172.3     146.1      161.0     166.5      176.6           175.3
Sacking                                         "              279.3     210.4      227.2     227.9      221.0     227.0      265.5.         231.6
Carpet Backing                                                  33.0      54.0       66.0      40.0       71.3      70.4       76.3            75.9
Others                                          "               20.6      26.8       34.7      30.3       24.3      26.2       27.8            18.3
Cotton Textiles
Cloth                                   million[ yds            59.1      58.4       79.4      84.6       74.5      68.1       84.5            85.0
Yarn                                    million lbs            105.7      80.9       91.3      91.3       88.1      82.4       89.7            96.6
Paper and Board
Newsprint                               thousand tons           36.0      27.5       26.5      28.8       20.0      14.6       27.6            33.6
Paper                                                           31.0      23.1       23.0      29.5       19.8      26.5       31.6            31.4
Rayon Yarn                                                       2.7       1.9        2.1       1.6        1.2        1.4       1.3
Hardboard                             million sq. ft.           15.0       6.0       16.0      15.0       14.0      17.1       30.0            19.0
Particle Board                         thousand tons             5.5       1.5        2.0       2.1        1.4       2.0        2.7             2.0
Cement                                                            53.0      31.0       52.0     127.0      157.0     308.0      340.5           322.5
Steel Ingots                                      "               54.0      67.0       72.0      75.0       89.0     106.0      115.0          124.4
Petroleum Products                                "              853.0     776.0      323.0     761.0      812.0   1,048.0   1,017.0         1,035.0
Engineering Products
Diesel Engine                          thousand nos.            1.3        1.4        1.7       5.2        0.9       1.4        0.02           0.1
Pumps                                           "                 -        0.9        2.1       7.5         -        2.8        2.1            1.3
Commercial and Heavy Vehicles                   "                0.46      1.23       2.27      1.30       0.89      0.98       1.4             1.5
C. I. B M. S. Pipes                             "                5.1       2.8        3.7       2.7        4.8       3.4        5.7             6.7
Radio                                                            6.0       5.0       11.0       8.7        4.0       3.9        9.7            38.7
Fertilizers
Urea                                    thousand tons          94.0      207.0     275.0       68.0     276.0      281.0     212.5           295.6
TSP                                                              -          -         -        32.0      48.0       47.0      41.3            62.3
Aemmonium Sulphate                                              4.7        5.0      10.1        4.9        5.7       9.1        9.3             5.3
Footwear                                   thousand doz.        586.0      448.0     391.0      280.0     285.0      255.0     146.0
Pharmaceuticals
Tablets                                 million nos.             -       121.0     209.0      253.0     225.0      232.0        -
Liquid                                million bottles            -         2.8       4.5        5.1       7.9        7.3        -               -
Soap                                      thousand tons           8.7        8.0      10.4        5.9       8.3        7.5      11.1            16.8
Glass Sheets                                 million ft           7.2        7.2       5.7        5.7       5.6        5.8       7.6             8.6
Matches                                million gross boxes       13.0        5.9       6.2        6.Z       6.9        7.6       8.0             9.1
Sugar                                      thousand tons         93.0      19.0       85.0       98.0      86.0      140.0     175.3           130.7
Molasses                                           "             51.0       10.0      45.0       43.0      39.0       59.0      85.0            60.8
Tea                                       million lbs.           67.0       53.0      61.0       71.0      65.0       74.0      77.4            75.3
Food and Allied Products
Edible Oils and Vegetable Chee          thousand tons          19.1      14.1       18.4      15.4       19.1      24.9       27.4            22.5
Fish Processing                         million lbs.            3.8       2.3        3.0        2.7       5.1        7.3       6.4             7.6
Soft Beverage                           thousand cases        264.0     330.0      258.0     271.0      235.0     223.0         -
Cigarettes                              billion sticks         17.79     11.20      11.90     10.44      11.91     11.63      11.48           13.4
Biscuits and Bread                      thousand tons           3.9       6.4        4.4       4.6        4.0       4.2        5.3             6.4
Lime stone                                thousand tons         134.5      44.6       81.8      26.0       61.3      61.3       61.0            59.6
Sulphuric acid                                                    6.5       5.7        6.4       5.4        4.0       3.9        4.5            13.0
Caustic soda                                       e              3.4       3.9        3.8       4.3        4.1        5.0       5.6             4.9
Hydrochloric acid                                  "               -        1.2        1.9       1.6        1.7       1.5        1.7             2.0
Chlorine                                           "              2.9       2.7        2.3       3.1        3.5        2.9       3.7             4.0
Nlatural gas                            million cubic feet         -         _   27,124.0  17,976.0  27,357.0  32,360.0  34,294.0          39,265.C
-lectrictty                                -i':ion kwh.                  1.055.61467.4    1.22.         459.7   .114.2   1,'12.3
ai Public sector oniy except tea, cigarettes anid matches.
Source: Bureau of Statistics, Sector Corporation.



- 61 -                    ANNEX V
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Performance and Prospects of Proposed IDA
Assisted Industries
1.        The eight industrial categories eligibLe for financing under the
IDA Import Program Credits constitute the major portion of the country's
manufacturing sector 1/, most of which is under the control of the Sector
Corporations created after the war of independence. Annexes VII, VIII and IX
discuss the performance of the jute, textile and export-oriented industries.
This annex touches upon the major issues facing the remaining industries and
considers the trend of their performance in terms of capacity utilization,
productivity, financial performance, etc.
Performance in FY79
2.        Overall output increased by about 15% which was somewhat higher
than achieved by the industrial sector as a whole. Substantial rises in pro-
duction were achieved by industries such as fertilizers (+ 75%), pulp and
paper (+ 65%) and steel billets and bars (+ 57%). Other industries showed
increases, although not as significant, reflecting in large part the effect
on demand of a slowly growing economy. As a result of the increases in pro-
duction, linked to a pricing structure establishing selling prices on a cost
plus basis, profitability in most industries improved with industries return-
ing to profit after absorbing the substantial wage rate increases granted by
GOB in June 1978. Apart from pulp and paper and fertilizer, most industries
showed a positive rate of before tax profit (although in a number of cases
these were converted to losses by taxation charges).
Issues Affecting Performance
3.        Capacity utilization, production, profitability and return on
investment are often taken as inter-related indicators of management perforr-
ance or efficiency. However, achievement of satisfactory levels of perform-
ance (however defined) is often dependent on factors beyond the control of
1/   The structure of the manufacturing sector,, and more particularly the
structure of the public manufacturing sector, is described in detail
in Report 2191-BD, Bangladesh - Issues and Prospects of Industrial
Development; dated December 5, 1978.



- 62 -                   ANNEX V
Page 2
management in the public manufacturing sector and the Sector Corporations 1/.
These firms are faced with a number of conflicting objectives and constrain-
ing operating requirements, some relating to their inherited operations, some
relating to external non-governmental (although economy wide) factors and some
arising from the relationship between the Corporations and the Government. In
the inherited companies, antiquated equipment gives limited scope for improving
production efficiency, reducing the high costs of production and utilizing
installed capacity created for a market greater than current demand within the
country. The external factors, include: Bangladesh's limited foreign exchange
and lack of natural resources which often result in a shortage of raw materials;
power shortages (a continuing and worsening factor), which have a considerable
impact upon production/profitability, leaving unit managers with the choice of
loss of production or depletion of scarce internal funds to provide alternative
sources of power; and labour unrest (often politically-motivated) and absentee-
ism (despite a vast pool of unemployed) further reduce management's ability to
optimize production.
4.        These economy-wide constraints affect all units within the manufac-
turing sector, although to varying degrees. However, the Sector Corporations
are faced with a number of special problems related to autonomy, flexibility
of management action and conflicting operating requirements. The public
enterprises are expected to operate as profitable commercial organizations
and to generate a contribution (through profits, depreciation, taxes, etc.)
towards the replacement of assets and new investments. Achievement of this
objective is constrained by GOB-established pricing structures, wage rates,
staffing levels and control over procurement. Further, management is unable
to rationalize production, seal production facilities or close inefficient
production units. To a greater or lesser extent, these problems are faced
by all public manufacturing units. However, where GOB/IDA have agreed upon
action programs for specific industries, the degree of autonomy given to
Corporation managers has been greatly increased. But the performance of the
Sector Corporations during FY79 indicates that more work must be done. The
Industrial Sector Report of December 1978, initiated action to resolve a
number of these issues and discussions are continuing with GOB.
Prospects for FY80
5.        Although production has increased in most industries, the spectres
of continued power shortages, labor unrest and shortage of foreign exchange
to procure essential raw materials and spare parts have created some pessimism
that there will be any significant improvements in performance during the
next fiscal year. Higher production/profitability targets have been set by
1/   Sector Corporations administer GOB's shareholdings with the various
subsectors, but do not have the legal/accounting status of registered
holding corporations. Their major role is to ensure uniform applica-
tion of GOB policies.



ANNEX V
- 63 -                   Page 3
GOB for all industries, but already changes have been made in the level of
proposed imports with reductions from Tk 2.1 billion to Tk 1.9 billion and
further reductions to Tk 1.8 billion and finally to Tk 1.6 billion. At this
latter level, there have been significant cutbacks on orders to give indus-
tries continuity of supply, particularly for the textile, cement, fertilizer
and engineering industries.
The Performance of the Public Manufacturing Sector
6.        Cement.  In the absence of any locally-available raw materials
(e.g., limestone) and a shortage of storage facilities, particularly for
clinker at Chittagong, the industry has recorded fluctuating levels of capa-
city utilization 1/ with production ranging from 159,200 tons in FY76 to
338,600 tons in FY78 and 319,700 tons in FY79, i.e. about 71% of available
capacity. Apart from the lack of raw material, other problems of production
during FY79 included lack of transportation required to move finished produc-
tion, power shortages and breakdowns due to the age of equipment (particularly
Chattak) and non availability of spare parts. However, steps have been taken
to overcome these problems and production for FY80 is forecast at 395,000 tons
(i.e., 88% capacity utilization). This increase is not sufficient to meet
demand as consumption has risen steadily since FY76 and in FY80 is projected
to reach 965,000 tons (thus exceeding the 1967 level of 900,000 tons). GOB
anticipates consumption to increase further, rising to 1.5 million tons by
FY85.
7.        Tax incentives for housing/building development have fuelled the
already high domestic demand for cement and the Bangladesh Mineral Exploration
and Development Corporation (BMEDC) has had no difficulty in selling its total
production. Prices of cement are fixed by GOB at $84 per ton 2/ with the
price of imported cement handled by the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh set
at $109 per ton. Under GOB's policy of controlled prices for essential com-
modities, the selling price of local cement has been set to give the BMEDC
a return of about 5% on sales. With increasing production, profits have
increased from a loss of Tk 3.6 million (FY76) to a profit of Tk 29.0 million
(FY79).
8.        Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals.  In the Chemical Sector (controlled
by the Bangladesh Chemical Industry Corporation - BCIC), capacity utilization
has shown a gradual but continuing improvement with capacity utilization in-
creasing by about 20% since FY76 with many units now operating at 50% or above
on a one/two shift basis. Many of the current operating difficulties have
1/   The cement industry consists of two plants, Chattak (with a capacity
of 150,000 tons) built in 1942 and Chittagong (with a capacity of 300,000
tons) built in 1974.
2/   The cost of production (excluding taxes) is below the CIF cost of im-
ported cement with subsequent savings of foreign exchange. Local cement
has an effective DRC of Tk 8.9 which is very satisfactory.



ANNEX V
- 64 -                   Page 4
been caused by the age of equipment and by the lack of pre and post nation-
alization maintenance. However, capacity utilization has improved in a
number of units due partly to improved availability of spare parts, partly
to improved cost control and partly to protection from imported products.
Despite improvements in capacity utilization, the financial performance of
the BCIC units has deteriorated with profits declining from Tk 16.4 million
in FY75, Tk 8.4 million in FY76, Tk 7.9 million in FY77 to a loss of Tk 48.7
million in FY78 and a similar loss projected for FY79. Overall, the sector
has accumulated operating losses of Tk 95.1 million.
9.        Fertilizer.  This sector has a history of poor capacity utilization
and production since independence has been erratic. Against an installed
capacity of 605,000 MT, production has varied from 101,000 in FY75 to
330,000 tons (or 55% of installed capacity) in FY79. The poor capacity util-
ization is due partly to faulty plant design (Ghorasal), old and obsolete
equipment (Fenchuganj) and delays in the supply of rock phosphate and sulfur
(for triple super phosphate production at Chittagong). Other problems affect-
ing production have been (i) significant power shortages; (ii) costly and
infrequent supply of spare parts, particularly from Japan; and (iii) consid-
erable delays in raw material/international material procurement.
10.       Production in BCIC's three fertilizer plants now appears to be
improving steadily, although there is still considerable scope for improving
capacity utilization. The Fenchunganj plant was overhauled in February 1979
and urea production from March 1 to June 30, 1979 was about 30,000 tons
(i.e., at about 85% of the rated capacity). During FY79, production at the
Ghorasal plant improved from 151,000 tpy (FY78) to 236,000 tpy (or 70% of
rated capacity). This level is the highest annual production achieved at
Ghorasal, although higher production could have been achieved (about 14,000
tons) if gas supplies had not been cut for 16 days to increase power pro-
duction during the drought period. Ghorasal is presently operating at about
85% of rated capacity (i.e. at about 940 tpd). The plant is well maintained
and there has been a significant reduction in stoppages caused by maintenance
and mechanical problems. Plant management has implemented a training scheme
for operators and technicians, which has offset some of the losses of per-
sonnel to the Middle East. The TSP units at Chittagong improved their pro-
duction from 38,200 tons in FY78 to 63,200 tons in FY79. Although only 42%
of rated capacity, this is a substantial improvement on previous performance.
During FY79, both plants were idle for 2-3 months due to lack of raw materials.
If timely and adequate raw material supplies had been arranged, production in
FY79 could have reached about 85,000 tons. Given adequate supplies of raw
material, plant management is confident of achieving at least 100,000 tpy
of TSP production during FY80.
11.       Currently, the findings of two studies aimed at removing infra-
structural and plant bottlenecks, are under consideration. On the basis of
one study (carried out by Bressler Associates) a project proposal for BMR of
the Ghorasal plant has been prepared and submitted to GOB for IDA financing.
Additionally, Toyo Engineering Company (TEC), the constructors of Ghorasal,



ANNEX V
- 65 -                    Page 5
have submitted a report on the performance of the plant and propose a detailed
mechanical inspection of the plant during its next overhaul in February 1980.
The TSP units at Chittagong are scheduled for overhaul during October/November
1979. This will be carried out by BCIC assisted by the original equipment
suppliers. During the overhaul, the rehabilitation requirement of the plants
will be assessed and final recbmmendations for rehabilitation are expected by
December 1979. Additional to these studies, UNDP has agreed to a US$1.8 million
project to provide specialized advisors to assist BCIC to manage the urea and
the TSP units and to improve capacity utilization through a preventive main-
tenance program and the removal of production bottlenecks.
12.       Profitability of the sector has fluctuated over the past three years,
due to the impact of production changes and controlled prices. The fertilizer
units incurred an operating loss of Tk 82.6 million in FY76, a profit of
Tk 82.0 million in FY77, a loss of Tk 15.4 million in FY78 and an estimated
loss of Tk 30.0 million in FY79.  As of June 30, 1978, the sector had accumu-
lated loss of Tk 273.0 million. Operating costs are affected by the heavy
interest charges resulting from the erosion of the sector's equity base and
the use of long-term funds to finance unit development.
13.       Pulp and Paper.  Capacity utilization within the four units operated
by BCIC (i.e. Kharnaphuli Paper Mill - KPM, Khulna Newsprint Mill - KNM, North
Bengal Paper Mill - NBPM and Sylhet Pulp Mill - SPM,) improved during FY79,
rising from 32% in FY77, 43% in FY78 to 66% in FY79. Against an installed
capacity of 126,000 tpa, production was 83,800 tons (FY78, 55,000 tons).
While this is a significant improvement, capacity utilization is still low,
particularly at NBPM and SPM, due to technical deficiencies, such as boiler
deterioration, poor woodroom equipment, inoperative bleaching plants, faulty
pulp screening, etc. However, during FY79, there were improvements in some
of the areas identified previously where action was needed to improve produc-
tion efficiency. For example, from August 1976 to December 1978, Tk 5.0 mil-
lion was spent on improving KPM plant facilities and a recent Swedish grant
of about Tk 150.0 million is enabling BCIC to implement a five-year moderniza-
tion program to help improve paper quality, reduce production costs, and
diversify product ranges. At KNM, production increased from 23,000 tons in
FY78 to about 37,200 tons in FY79 due to improved spare parts supplies and
the installation of new equipment. Implementation of a CIDA financed BMR
program currently proposed should enable the mill to produce about 40,000
tons per annum. Production at NBPM is still affected critically by power
failures and the lack of raw materials. A Swedish (SIDA) financed project
study has been submitted to IDA for financing. IDA has reviewed the study and
indicated that it would be prepared to consider financing of the proposals.
14.       As domestic demnand represents only 35%-50% of installed capacity
for newsprint and general paper, exports are the main avenue to increased
capacity utilization. Export prospects for the immediate future are still
uncertain although with the exception of India and the Philippines, Bangladesh
is the only significant producer of newsprint in South and South East Asia.
If it can improve the quality of its products, it should be able to capture



ANNEX V
- 66 -                   Page 6
a larger share of regional demand, particularly for low-medium quality news-
print. Since FY73, export sales have averaged 10,500 MT per annum, although
since FY77 the rate of export sales have increased due to GOB's export pricing
policy, which allows sales at $430 per MT as against a cost of production of
Tk 7,400 per MT (i.e. $475 per MT).
15.       Although the industry has increased its productivity and contained
the rate of cost increases, GOB imposed selling prices for newsprint and print-
ing paper has had a significant impact upon the profitability of the industry.
In many instances, these controlled prices are below actual cost (or attain-
able costs based upon industry efficiency norms) and the industry has incurred
continuing operating losses. As at June 30, 1979, the industry had recorded
accumulated operating losses of about Tk 420.0 million and further operating
losses are projected for FY80. Present price levels are inadequate to cover
variable costs and the industry is unable to service its debts. The current
BMR program should help alleviate this situation, but these need to be sup-
ported by a program of restructuring and replenishing the industry's eroded
equity and working capital.
16.       Steel.  The iron and steel products group of the Bangladesh Steel
and Engineering Corporation (BSEC) is the Corporation's major operating group
and contains all the major steel production and large rerolling units in the
country. The main units of the group are the Chittagong Steel Mill - CSM
(capacity 250,000 tons 1/), 12 rolling mills, several foundries and two
aluminium product producing units. During FY79, capacity utilization of steel
milling facilities increased from 44% (FY78) to 49% (FY79), while use of
billets production/facilities increased from 78% to 100%. Production of
ingots increased from 111,000 tons (FY78) to 121,000 tons (FY79). Production
of steel billets and bars increased from 138,000 tons (FY78) to 217,000 tons
(FY79). This increase in production resulted from improved production con-
trol, production routing and availability of raw material, particularly scrap
steel.
17.       Prior to FY77, the Steel group unit recorded increasing operating
profits, with profits rising from Tk 48.0 million in FY74 to Tk 76 million
in FY77. Adjustment of FY77 profits to reflect GOB's retrospective wage rate
increases approved in June 1978, turned FY77 profit to a loss of Tk 1.8 mil-
lion. The loss of FY78 was Tk 31.3 milion. Price increases in July 1978
resulted in operating profits of Tk 20.0 million for FY79, and profits of
Tk 25.0 million are projected for FY80. Although the steel units are operating
profitably (which is not surprising as selling prices are set on a cost plus
margin basis), the economic performance of the sector is poor. For FY78, the
Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) of steel production was 74.6, with an economic
DRC of 53.6 and an incremental DRC of 36.2, all indicative of an inefficient
industry. For FY79, lower raw material costs (through bulk purchases of
1/   Operated at full capacity, the mill should theoretically produce
175,000 tons of steel billets, bars, angles, sheets and plates.



-67 -                     ANNEX V
Page 7
scrap/pig iron) and effective cost control have resulted in an improvement
of the DRCs with the financial DRC falling to 33.4. An efficiency study
financed by UNDP is being carried out to identify ways of improving produc-
tion efficiency/quality control. IDA is participating in this study through
a monitoring committee. Given some improvements in production efficiency
and an increase in output, the economic vaiability of producing steel locally
should further improve.



ANNEX VI
-68  -p,,g,. 1
BANCLiADESH TMPORTS PIh)ORAM CREDIT
Act{ 1'r. lin
Jutc Induestry
Required Action (Fourth and FifLh Credlt)             Agreed Completion Date                           Status
i) Marketing Consultants to be hired               April 30, 1977                Phase I.of assignmant completed nnd recommendations
to study requirements of marketing                                            implemented.  Phase II report containing recommenda-
directorate, organize training                                                tions on training, market research and market
programs, market studies and                                                  information systems under consideration by MOJ/BJMC.
promotion programs overseas.                                                  Consultants from PA (financed by ODA) cerpenced
24-man month assignnment in January 1979 to implement
recommendations.
ii) Consultants to advise on spare parts           June 30, 1977                  Consultants (3) financed by CIDA commenced assignment
production of Galfra Habib to be                                              December 1976.  Spare parts manufacturing program
recruited.                                                                    implemented with capacity utilisation as of
September 1979 estimated at 70%.
iii) BJgC to prepare reconstructed                  June 30, 1977                  BJMC has completed asset revaluation and incorporated
balance sheet  for each mill and                                              results into capital restructurfng proposals submitted
recommendation of adjustments                                                 to COB in November 1978.  GOB assurances given to
required to achieve appropriate                                               restructure capital to give BJ1MC debt/equity ratio of
debt/equity ratio.                                                            60:40.
iv) GOB to establish an adequately                 March 31, 1977                 As of September 1979, four of seven proposed inspection
staffed export inspection service                                             offices operational.  Balance to be operational by
in the Jute Ministry.                                                         December 31, 1979.
Required Action (Sixth Credit)
A. Rehabilitation/Profitability Improvement
i) BJMC to carry out a survey of each             February 28, 1978              Survey completed by ECI/PA in December 1978. Proposals
mill to identify the need for                                                 not accepted by GOB.  In June 1979 GOB submitted
rehabilitation and to determine                                              proposals for rehabilitation prepared by a Jute Sector
(a) the necessary investment required;                                       Study Group.  Project now under appraisal.
(b) anticipated operational improvements;
(c) incremental benefits resulting
from the iraprovements; and
(d) financial and economic rates of
return.
ii) On the basis of the mill-by-mill survey,    March 31,. 1978                   Proposals submitted by GOB (A(i) above) in June 1979
and taking into account projected levels                                      and accepted as basis for proposed jute rehabilitation
of demand, COB will submit to IDA with                                        project.
comments, BJMC's recommendations on
mills selected for investment and
actions to be taken with respect to
uneconomic units.
iii) BJMC shall continue to (a) carry out           i) Completion of Report -   Maintenance programs still under implementation with
its program aimed at appraising the               March 31, 1978.            maintenance task forces staffed at full strength.
preventive maintenanice systems of its
mills, make recommendations for their         ii) ALppointment (if
improvement and implementing such                 necessary) of Consul-
recommendations; (b) furnish to GOB and           tants, July 1, 1978.
IDA its report on the program and, if
necessary, employ consultants to
improve the implementation of its
program.
iv) GOB/BJMC to carry out a study of raw           December 31, 1978             COB corments on ECL report submitted June 1979.
Jute supply, including the review of                                         Agreement reached on most major issues. Actions to be
the present pricing policies of raw                                          taken to establish mechanism/procedures for develop-
jute and the optimal mix between                                             ment of optimal pricing structure/export strategy were
raw jute and jute goods exports.                                             discussed with GOB by Jute Rehabilitation mission,
and subsequently during course pf negotiations for
Eighth Imports Program Credit.
B. Operational Targets
BJMC to prepare operational targets            October 1, 1978               BJMC has submitted consolidated projections for
for each mill and consolidated                                               FY80-FY81 incorporating rehabilitation improvements.
"Corporation" target for items such                                          Individual mill targets to be submitted by October 15,
as production, spinning and weaving                                           1979.
efficiency, conversion costs per
ton, raw jute purchasing efficiency,
wastage and profits.
1/ Under the action program of the IV Program Credit, BJ1C was required t,, (i) carry out a world market study on juite products; (i)
complete an inventory of production capacity and to create a Production Planining Directorate; (iii) employ consultants to develop
and implement a program of planned maintenance; and (iv) prepare financed projections for FY76 and for the period FY76-FYS8.  All
these actions have been satisfactorily comrpleted.  Under the Action Fro; rwn of the V Program Credit, BJaC u;aG required to update
(i) the study on world demand for jute products; (ii) its production prcgram and inlitiete a revision of its cost accounting
system.  These requirements have been completed.



ANNEX VI
-69-                                                    Page 2
Recquired Action (Sixth Credit)                     Agreed Completion Date                                   Status
C. Management and Systems Improvements
i) GOB to assist in reduction of raw           Understanding with GOB       Individual mills allowed autonomy to purchase raw
jute purchasing costs through better        BJMC already reached          jute within general guidelines set by MOJ/BJMC.  Credit
timing of credit availability                                             availability negotiated with Commercial Banks has
coupled with more autonomy for BJMC                                       allowed better timing of raw jute purchase.
and the mills in raw jute purchasing.
ii) GOB to give BJMC and the mills more         Rules of Business              Reviewed and accepted September 1979.
autonomy in areas such as personnel         reviewed by IDA.
policies, raw jute purchasing, etc.
The degree of autonomy is to be
clarified in the Rules of Business.
iii) bJMC to decentralise its organisa-          July 1, 1978                   Proposals submitted June 1979 for creation of nine
tion and delegate more authority to                                       zones.  Revised operational, functional and administra-
zonal offices and mills.  The                                             tive responsibilities also proposed.  Implementation
decentralisation would be combined                                        program to be agreed December 1979.
with the design and implementation
of a revised management control
system.
iv) GOB to establish a policy that the          Understanding already          GOB's policy of limited transfer reconfirmed.  Limited
Chief Executive should remain at            reached with GOB/BJMC.        transfer of personnel that has taken place relates to
his post for at least three years and                                     implementation of revised personnel policies.
BJMC will reduce inter-mill transfer
of managers.
v) BJMC to present to GOB recommenda-          March 31, 1978                 General incentive systems now operational.  BJMC to
tions for an incentive system for                                         consider revisions to emphasis profitability/efficiency.
BJMC and mill personnel.                                                  Proposals due January 1980.
vi) BJMC to prepare and implement a             Preparation by                 Training scheme operational and progress in line with
training program for BJMC and mill          December 1, 1977 of           implementation schedule.
personnel.                                  training program to be
completed by June 30,
1980.
vii) BJMC to implement improved spare            March 31, 1978                 Revised procurement procedures and expenditure limits
parts purchasing procedure including                                      introduced during FY78-FY79 working satisfactor.ily.
greater autonomy for mills in the
purchase of local apares.
viii) BJMC to expedite   completion of               i) Annual audit for         FY76 - Audits completed for 74 of 77 operational mills
FY77 audit and thereafter have its               EY77 to be completed   FY77 - Audits completed for 70 of 77 operational mills
external audits completed within                 by October 31, 1978.   FY78 - Audits completed for 36 of 77 operational mills
6 months of the fiscal year end
starting with the accounts of FY79.          ii) Annual audit for
FY78 to be completed
by March 31, 1979.
iii) Thereafter audits to
be completed within
6 months of each year
end.



,                                               ANN~~~~~~~~~~~~Sl't. VI
- 70-                                                                             Pago 3
BANGLADIII SB I'IP1S I'ROCRAM CREDIT
Acto t 1.l  'r . r.,nu.
TeXtils  Industry
Resuired Action (Fiftth Credit)                      Agreed Completion Date                          Status
I) COB to include a prefeasibility                 March 31, 1977                Initial study by UNDP/UNIDO completed.  Subsequent
study of the potential for man-                                               ADB financed follo-up study byUNICO (Japan) underway.
made fibre.                                                                   Preliminary repoTt submitted July 1979.
ii) GOB to undertake sample survey of               December 31, 1976             BTHC did not follow  up survey and by December 1977
the handloom sector and census of                                             it was found that the delayed sample survey carried
"small" powerlooms.                                                           cut did not serve its purpose.  Revised sample
survey completed December 1978.  Report submitted to
IDA in March 1979. COB/NOT coamments on findings of
survey should be made available to IDA  in January
1980.
iii) GOB/BIDS to carry out a study of                December 31, 1977             Initial study found to be inadequate.  Revised study
the relative efficiencies of the                                              underway, but delayed.  Expected completion date
handlooa/"small" powerloom sector                                             December 1979 with final report available March 31,
vs. composite mills.                                                          1980.
iv) BTMC to undertake a program to improve          December 31, 1976             1. GOB/BTMC have made application for IDA financing
spare parts availability and mill                                                for spare parts project.  Consideration held pendizg
productivity.                                                                    completion of UNDP study.
2. Mill productivity. One of four USDP advisors on
site.  Others still to be selected.
Regtired Action (Sixth Credit)
A. Rehabilitation/Profitability Improvement
i) BTMC to prepare a long-term                 April 30, 1978                 Report/program submitted to IDA, September 1978.
rehabilitation program for the                                             Program accepted in principle as basia for BYR
Corporation to obtain a least cost                                         project.
solution to meet expected demands for
yarn and cloth.
iI) On basis of (i) above BTMC to submit to  Mary 31, 1978                     Financing proposal submitted to IDtA June 1979.
IDA, recommendation concerning BMR                                         Project preappraisal planned end FY80.
investment.
iII) GOB to inform IDA of its pricing             December 1, 1977 and          Revised paper submitted August 1979.  Revision
policy and the pricing structure            ongoing.                      acceptable as basis for dialogue with GOB on
necessary to testoer  sod maintain                                        pricing review.
the profitability of the cotton
textile industry in Bangladesh.
iv) GOB to give BTMC autonomy in the            Ongoing                        Autonomy given in July 1977.  FY80 progran submitted
purchase of raw cotton.                                                    to IDA for review.
B. Operational Target
i) BTMC to prepare operational targets          April 30,                     Rot prepared fer FY80.
for each mill.
ii) BIMC to prepare a consolidated              April 30,                      Submitted to IDA, August 13, 1979.
operational target based upon the
individual mill target.
C. Management and System Improvement
1) BTtC to prepare and implement Rules         Ongoing                        Implementation July 1977 and still operational.
of Business which include specific
definition of degrees of autonsmy
for unit.
ii) GOB to establish a policy of continuity  Understanding reached             No cbange since FY78.  However, GOB has gazetted a
for senior management with reduced          with GOB/BSYNC                 change in the Finance Directorate replecing the
inter mill transfers.                                                     present acting director.
iii) BTltC to undertake improvement of its        December                      Expected completion date December 31, 1979.  System
management informatios  and control                                        operational in 58 out of 62 units.
system, together with increasing and
upgrading accounting staff.
iv) BTMC to present proposal for incentive   March 31, 1979                    Bonus system proposal not acceptable as it puts prezim
system for BTMC and mill staff.                                            on production rather than upon quality and profit.
Discussed at negotiations and modifications suggeswd.
v) BTMC to prepare and implement a              March 31, 1979                Training mill established FY78. 1200 employees traine:
comprehensive training program.             Ongoing FY78, FY79             to date.  Training Institute not yet established.
vi) BTMC to upgrade internal audit               Decepiber 31, 1977            Nine teams (4 officers) established and internal audi:
systems and procedures.                                                    carried nut on a cycle basis.  FY78 audit 50%
completed.
vii) Audit of STt'C account Eor FY77 to           December 31, 1977             FY77 audit still incomplete.  Scheduled for completic-
be completed. Thersafter annual                                            Decceber. 31, 1979.  Issue to be raised with COB.
audit to be c-opleted within six (6)
months of FY end.
viii) BTMC to revalue its assets in a-cord-    June 30, 1978                     Cmpleted Dccenbor 31, 1979.
since *ith 5ct-cd accounting prflncples.



- 71 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
THE JUTE INDUSTRY
General
1.        In 1975, IDA conducted a study of the jute industry in Bangladesh
(Report No. 883-BD of September 25, 1975), on the basis of which the jute
industry action program for the Fourth Imports Program Credit was developed.
Subsequent appraisal missions expanded this program through the Fifth and
Sixth Imports Program Credits. The President's Report for the Seventh Imports
Program Credit reviewed the progress made under these credits and consoli-
dated the actions outstanding. This annex concentrates on the developments
in Bangladesh's jute industry since 1978 when the Seventh Imports Program
Credit was made.
Principal Trends in Output, Exports and Prices
2.        The jute industry is the most important industry in Bangladesh.  It
accounts for approximately 50% of export earnings (and raw jute for another
30%) and about 25%-30% of value added in the manufacturing sector. About 10%
(170,000 workers) out of Bangladesh's industrial workforce of 2 million work
in the jute industry. Prior to independence in 1971, Bangladesh's annual
production and exports averaged about 500,000 long tons and 450,000 long tons
respectively. During FY72, production dropped to 315,000 tons and ranged from
400,000 to 500,000 tons thereafter, except in FY78 when production of 530,000
tons surpassed preindependence levels. Similarly, exports of FY72 were low at
221,000 tons, and ranged from 412,000 tons to 462,000 tons up to FY77. The
FY78 exports of 522,000 tons surpassed the preindependence level of 498,000
in FY70. Bangladesh's share of the world market, which dropped from 44% in
FY70 to 35% in FY75, reached its highest level since independence in FY77
(48%) and has maintained a share of 46% for FY78 and FY79.
3.        During FY78, a sharp increase in the jute goods price of 21% over
FY77 was coupled with a 18% increase in the world wide volume of exports.
During FY79, the average sales prices increased by 27% over FY79; however,
export volumes fell by 12% from 1,136,000 tons in FY78 to 993,000 tons mainly
due to production constraints in India and Bangladesh.
4.        The FY79 reversal of the FY78 upward trend in exports of Bangladesh's
jute goods was mainly due to a partial loss of the sacking market. Moreover,
BJMC could not take full advantage of a buoyant hessian and carpetbacking
market due to production constraints, such as power shortages and labor unrest.
However, export earnings from jute goods increased from US$250 million in



- 72 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2
FY78 to US$277 million in FY79 due to a 28% average price increase 1/ which
outweighed the 13% decrease in export tonnage. As compared to FY78, the
product composition in FY79 showed a decline in sacking from 47% to 43% and
"other products" from 3% to 2% (particularly cotton bagging) with an increase
of hessian from 35% to 38% and maintenance of the share of carpetbacking (at
16%). This represents a change compared to previous years which showed a
shift from hessian to carpetbacking, with sacking maintaining its share.
Also, since 1969, Bangladesh has been producing lighter fabrics to meet a
shift in demand. However, during FY78 and FY79, the product mix between
heavy and light cloth remained about the same as in FY77.
5.        During FY79, jute and jute goods improved their competitive price
position in Western Europe. Prices of polypropylene polymer almost doubled
from about US$500/ton to about US$900/ton, mainly due to supply shortages
and crude oil price increases of more than 40%. International jute prices,
however, remained relatively stable at around h200 per long ton sight, or
about 40% below those of polypropylene.
6.        In sharp contrast to the situation in Western Europe, prices of
polypropylene polymer in the United States remained relatively steady at
about US$620 per ton. During 1978, jute primary carpetbacking seemed to have
stabilized its market share at 15% to 16%, and jute secondary carpetbacking
at 98%, since losses of jute to foam rubber and other cushions appeared
to have been checked. However, the position of jute in carpetbacking and
hessian deteriorated sharply in early 1979 due to (i) rising jute goods
prices which enhanced the price advantage of polypropylene and (ii) supply
interruptions as a result of protracted strikes in Bangladesh and India.
Export Prospects
7.        Export prospects for the immediate future remain uncertain, as it
is not clear what the pricing strategy for synthetics will be (para 9). How-
ever, an increase in volume over FY79 is likely. The demand for hessian is
expected to increase gradually. A trend towards falling market shares, on
primary carpetbacking, is expected to be compensated by an increase in second-
ary carpetbacking, with a limited overall increase. The demand for sacking,
decreased in FY79 and is expected to fall further in FY80, although the fall
is likely to be counterbalanced by increased demand from developing countries
in subsequent years.
1/   Calculated in Taka, which includes an 11% appreciation of the b against
the Taka from FY78 to FY79. Export prices are quoted in UK B.



- 73 -                   ANNEX VII
Page 3
8.        The major problem in the medium-term demand outlook for jute products
is competition from synthetic products. The major competing synthetic,
polypropylene, is largely substitutable for jute goods. Although polypropylene
has certain technical disadvantages against jute (e.g., low melting tempera-
tures, difficulty in dyeing and printing, slipperiness, which affects handling,
stacking, and its utility for secondary carpetbacking, and less appeal to
taste in decorative applications in secondary carpetbacking), polypropylene
also has certain advantages (tougher, water resistance, lightness, and greater
ease of contouring). Since technological developments are likely to overcome
these technical disadvantages, price competitiveness and reliability of supply
will be the key factors in future demand for jute goods.
9.        An FAO study of October 1979 indicates that the price of polypropy-
lene is likely to rise, but only insignificantly, although the crude oil price
increased from an average of US$12.7/barrel during the first three quarters of
1978 to US$14/barrel during the first quarter of 1979, and to US$30/barrel in
December 1979. Prices of propylene, the basic feedstock used in the manufac-
ture of polypropylene, rose even more rapidly -- from US$220/ ton to US$300
and to US$390/ton as a result of an imbalance in the supply situation for
refinery products. Consequently, the cost of production of polypropylene is
estimated to have risen by some 40-45%, from an average of US$536/ton in 1978
to US$765/ton in July 1979. In many cases, polypropylene is produced in an
integrated operation which includes the production of both feed stock and
polymers. As a result, the producers have flexibility in allocating costs.
However, some producers have cost recovery problems despite the low margin
between cash costs of production (i.e., excluding depreciation) and selling
prices in 1978 and early 1979. Producers are unlikely to increase prices of
polypropylene in 1980 since capacity utilization is well below the desired
level of 85%. As there is considerable capacity currently under construction,
an improvement in the overall operating rate is not likely to occur before
mid-1980. On balance, prices of polypropylene are likely to increase more
slowly than increases and costs of production might indicate. As a result,
jute goods prices cannot be expected to increase substantially in the medium
term if jute goods are to remain price competitive.
10.       As discussed above, the share of Bangladesh in the world's exports
of jute goods increased from 35% in FY75 to about 46% in FY79. Compared to
India, the other major jute goods exporter, the Bangladesh industry is likely
to increase exports, given the high quality of its raw jute, its relatively
cheap labor, its improved quality over the past year, and its competitive
production costs. With improved quality and reliability of output, Bangladesh
may also be able to capture markets from some European manufacturers. How-
ever, to expand the current limited world market for jute goods, new fields of
application for jute goods should be developed and substantial research and
development efforts are necessary. UNDP/UNIDO are providing technical assist-
ance to BJMC in quality control and UNDP is also financing an advisor for
research and development. Strengthening of marketing and promotion efforts



ANNEX VII
Page 4
is also underway with technical assistanca from ODA 1/ and BJMC has taken
steps to increase the number and the staff of its overseas sales offices.
Raw Material Supplies and Prices
11.       In FY78, the average raw jute p::ice had increased by 32% over the
previous year and the expectation for FY79 (operational targets) was a 29%
drop. The average raw jute price actually increased a further 6%, which,
however, was more than counterbalanced by increases in jute goods prices
(para 3). From FY78 to FY79, the jute acreage increased from 1.85 million
acres to 2.05 million acres and production from 5.4 million bales to 6.6
million bales. However, the relatively high raw jute price at the beginning
of FY79 (July 1978: Tk 165/maund white botton X) dropped appreciably only
towards the end of the fiscal year (April 1979: Tk 130/maund) when it became
clear that BJMC would consume about 15% less raw jute than anticipated mainly
due to production constraints.
12.       FY80 projections, based on sowing reports, indicate a jute growing
area of 1.8 million acres (including 300,000 acres affected by drought) with
a projected crop of about 5.5 million bales which would be 20% less than last
year's crop. In spite of the low product:on, the raw jute price remained
sluggish in August/September 1979, mainly on account of a large carryover of
2.0 million bales in July 1979, of which BJMC held 0.8 million bales, and
the public and private traders the rest. As a result of the drought and
insufficient retting water, a large part of the crop was of low quality jute
which sent the price to Tk 55/maund in October 1979, less than half the
statutory minimum price of Tk 115/maund.
13.       In the past, BJMC had three major problems in raw jute procurement.
First, in FY77, BJMC was unable to buy sufficient raw jute directly at the
agencies due to shortage of working capital. Upon GOB instructions, the
commercial banks are now providing timely credit to the mills so they can
build up their stocks to a level equal to six months' production which is
adequate. Second, prior to 1977, BJMC's raw jute purchases were completely
decentralized with the mills, so that some mills would compete with each
other and in some cases were not able to buy sufficient raw jute, particu-
larly given also competition with private traders. Therefore, in 1977, BJMC
appointed a director of Raw Jute Purchase, who has created 200 purchasing
agencies in jute growing areas. BJMC is centrally monitoring the jute pur-
chasing by the mills, and is now competing effectively with private traders.
Third, during FY78, GOB interferred in BJMKC's purchasing policy by asking
it to adhere to a maximum purchasing price which private traders ignored.
As a result, BJMC could not buy sufficent amounts of raw jute, but had to
buy it later from private traders at substantially higher prices. During
FY79, no such interference hampered BJMC.
1/   Overseas Development Administration, UK.



- 75 -                    ANNEX VII
Page 5
14.       In an attempt to develop an acceptable pricing structure for raw
jute and to arrive at a realistic allocation of raw jute between the mills
and exports, ECL carried out a study of raw jute marketing and pricing
mechanisms for GOB. ECL's recommendations submitted to GOB in February 1979
included proposals for reorganization of raw jute marketing, establishment
of statutory minimum prices and the development of an export strategy and
optimal pricing structure for raw jute. Many of the proposals have been
discussed and agreed with GOB. However, more work is necessary to establish
the mechanism needed to develop an export strategy and optimal pricing struc-
ture. This includes creation of a cell within the Ministry of Jute to
monitor world demand and prices for raw jute and jute goods. This aspect
was discussed with GOB during the appraisal of the proposed jute rehabilita-
tion project. During negotiations for the propose Eighth Imports Program
Credit GOB gave assurances that the cell would be established.
Factors Affecting Productive Efficiency
15.       A major objective of the action programs agreed with IDA was the
great need to improve the productive efficiency of the industry. Among the
principal factors affecting efficiency were (i) the poor mechanical condition
of equipment caused principally by inadequate supply of essential spare parts,
which resulted in a complete lack of normal scheduled preventive maintenance
programs over a period of years; (ii) the lack of effective production plan-
ning to adjust to changes in fabric mix due to the change in demand for
lighter fabrics, and to maximize use of loom reed space; (iii) shortages of
skilled labor and management; (iv) a lack of coordinated and effective train-
ing programs; (v) large-scale absenteeism; and (vi) power shortages. Addi-
tionally, process losses were excessive due principally to inefficient jute
utilization, lack of control for optimum emulsion application in batching,
and inefficient processing methods.
16.       FY79 weaving efficiencies of about 49% for hessian, 60% for sacking
and 64% for CBC showed only little improvement over FY78 and thus fell mar-
ginally short of the FY79 projected targets for sacking by 2%, but exceeded
the target for hessian by 1%. To compensate for the lost production due
to power cuts, BJMC utilized standby looms to increase the number of operating
looms by about 5% to 24,238, i.e., hessian 15,317:, sacking 6,773; and CBC
2,148. While no accurate figures of spinning efficiencies have been made
available, there is indication that spinning performances have improved
as there is no shortage of yarn. However, there is still no general system
for weighing spinning production (with the exception of two mills where
spinning production is weighted on a trial basis) and calculating correct
efficiencies.  BJMC intends to purchase weighing equipment for this purpose.
17.       The major obstacle to increased production and more efficient weav-
ing has been the inability of spinning departments, usually in narrow loom
mills, to produce sufficient yarn in adequate quality to enable looms to
operate efficiently. Three major factors were identified in the past. The
most important was the accelerated deterioration of equipment due to the lack



- 76 -
ANNEX VII
Page 6
of essential maintenance and availability of spare parts. Since the formation
of the first Maintenance Task Force (MTF) under the action programs for the
Fourth Imports Program Credit and the allocation of funds from subsequent
Credits for the purchase of imported spares, there has been a gradual but
steady improvement. With a more plentiful supply of spare parts and the
issuing of a maintenance manual compiled by the expatriate leader of the
original MTF to each mill, considerable progress has been made in implementing
a preventive maintenance schedule, and establishing a program for renovation
and rehabilitation. It appears that more and more mill managers are becoming
convinced that improvement in the mechanical condition of their machines
is the first step towards improving efficiency. Further improvement of effi-
ciencies is expected in the coming years with the implementation of a full
scale rehabilitation program, expansion of training programs (which should
result in better management, supervision, and operator skills), and better
supervision and administration by BJMC after the proposed reorganization
(para 26). The improved maintenance has not yet been reflected in substan-
tially increased production efficiencies, but it is expected to make a sig-
nificant impact in the next few years.
18.       The second factor affecting production was that two of the three
makes of spinning frames (which are no longer marketed), installed in Bangla-
desh have never reached their expected levels of production and with age, wear
and tear have given an ever decreasing output. Certain modifications to these
machines, which BJMC carried out in early 1978, did not improve their effi-
ciency to the extent which justified the expenditure involved. However,
during 1979 certain improvements in design and manufacture of the modifica-
tions have led to better results. When introduction of millside three-shift
working in all narrow loom mills is carried out under the proposal made by the
Study Group set up by GOB in May 1979 (paragraph 24), the major portion of the
machinery rendered surplus will be of this type which has given problems,
thereby lessening the need for modifications.
19.       In previous years, there was a shift towards lighter fabrics but
during FY79, the fabric mix become stabilized in hessian and CBC. However,
with the contraction of market demand for sacking, BJMC is now manufacturing
light fabrics which were very seldom produced previously.
20.       BJMC has also made progress in reducing the wastage percentage
from 7.51% in FY78 to 7.09 in FY79 against the target 7.3%. This reflects
satisfactory progress in the control of process loss. However, further
reduction of waste may be difficult in the future if BJMC executes its
plans to reduce the proportion of sacking looms to hessian looms from 32:68
to 25:75 by FY85, since the proportion of sacking production may be too low
to absorb all waste.
21.       The above measures will have only a gradual effect on increased
efficiency in the industry. There is still the shortage of skilled managerial
and operational personnel, which contributed to the development of many of the
present problems. To remedy this, BJMC started a limited series of training



- 77 -
ANNEX VII
Page 7
programs in 1973 under which 1,519 people were trained up till 1977. At that
time, BJMC drew up a new comprehensive four year training program, covering
managerial and operational personnel. Between June 1977 and August 1979, a
further 2,846 people have been trained, a substantial increase over the
earlier scheme. Incentive schemes, drawn up by BJMC in early 1978, have now
been operating for over a year. BJMC is reviewing these schemes to assess
their effectiveness and implementing progressively any required modifications.
22.       Two additional aspects affecting the efficiency of the industry,
i.e., quality control and productivity, have been tackled with UNIDO/UNDP
assistance. In the area of quality control, BJMC's systems and procedures
have been thoroughly reviewed by a quality control advisor who terminated his
assignment on July 31, 1979 having completed 21 months in the field. During
that time, UNIDO/UNDP fully equipped four pilot mills with quality control
laboratories, and trained one quality control officer for each mill. In
addition, UNIDO/UNDP trained a further 12 officers from selected mills in
quality control. However, testing equipment has not yet been purchased for
the laboratories that are to be set up in these 12 mills. Altogether, 50
quality control officers and testers have been trained, of which six were sent
abroad for training after working in close association with the quality con-
trol advisor. From 1977 up to 1979, the number of quality claims has dropped
by about 80%, partly as a result of these efforts. In the area of production
efficiency, a team of productivity consultants (now only two in number as
against the three planned) are continuing their work in 16 selected mills.
This includes training, lectures, seminars, on-the-job training in monitoring
jute utilization, preventive maintenance and rehabilitation. A two-man UNDP
evaluation mission visited Dacca in September 1979 and recommended continua-
tion of the technical assistance program.
Organization, Finances, and Economics of Production
23.       Organization.  BJMC is still managed by a Board of Directors con-
sisting of a Chairman, who is the Chief Executive, and six Directors, each of
whom is responsible for one of BJMC's departments. Up to October 1978, all
departments were headed by the Director appointed at the time of creating the
present structure. The Chairman was replaced after three years of service,
and the Finance Director, who left BJMC in November 1978, was replaced in
December 1979.
24.       All jute mills are wholly owned by GOB and are unlikely to be dena-
tionalized in the near future. GOB appoints BJMC's Board and auditors and
approves BJMC's budget. In June 1979, plans to reorganize the BJMC and
regroup the mills were prepared by a Study Group on jute goods manufacture,
which was formed by GOB in early 1979 to explore alternative approaches to the
rationalization of production in the jute mills of BJMC as proposed by ECL/PA
consultants. The Study Group proposes to (i) regroup the mills; (ii) restruc-
ture responsibilities and authorities at the zonal and mill levels; and



- 78 -                    ANNEX VII
Page 8
(iii) adjust the organization of BJMC-Headquarters (para 28). The proposals
currently being discussed within GOB are expected to be approved by an inter-
ministerial committee by March 31,1980.
25.       Up to mid-1977, the mills were supervised by four zonal offices,
each responsible for 18-20 mills under a zonal general manager. Due to the
large span of control and insufficient staffing, supervision and control of
the mills were unsatisfactory. In late 1977, BJMC stripped the zonal offices
of all supervisory power leaving them with an advisory role. At the same
time, BJMC created mill boards for close supervision of the mill manager.
However, the mill boards have not served this purpose, mainly because intervals
between board meetings were too long (from July 1977 to March 1978, the 77
mill boards met on average less than three times during that nine-month
period). This was because many of the boards are chaired by BJMC directors
who, given their other functional responsibilities and their limited numbers,
could not devote sufficient time to the mills and board attendance.
26.       Under the new proposal, the mills will be regrouped into 9 zones
with an average of 7-8 mills in each zone, thereby reducing the span of
control for the Zonal General Managers. The Zonal Managers will be fully
responsible for the performance and supervision of the mills with direct line
authority over mill managers. They are obliged to visit, inspect and review
each mill at least once every two weeks. Given the importance of the Zonal
General Manager, appointments must be carefully made. IDA has proposed to
promote the best mill managers to become Zonal General Managers. The zonal
headquarters are located as close to the geographical center of each zone as
possible in order to minimize travelling time. Each zone will have six
experienced deputy general managers responsible for all operational aspects
except for exports which are centrally controlled by the marketing division
of BJMC. This staff is to support the Zonal General Manager but will not have
authority over mill management. The basic line responsibility of the Zonal
General Manager would be to the chairman of BJMC, but BJMC's directors would
continue to exercise supervisory control of their functional responsibilities.
In substance, GOB's scheme fully corresponds to the one proposed and supported
by ECL/PA and IDA.
27.       The mill boards, having been ineffective, will be disbanded and
replaced by an Executive Committee which will be chaired by the Zonal General
Manager and will include the mill manager (who also acts as secretary of the
committee), the zonal chief of the Accounts Department, the mill production
manager, and the mill technical manager. Conceptually, the mill manager is
to be the chief executive of the mill with all the necessary power and author-
ity. The reorganization proposals specify the allocation of powers and
authorities among mill managers, executive committee and zonal general
managers.
28.       Concerning BJMC itself, the Study Group proposed to disband the
directorate of research and quality control. Research would be incorporated



- 79 -
ANNEX VII
Page 9
in the Directorate of Planning and Development, and quality control in the
Directorate of Production and Quality Control. Internal audit, a routine
function, would be transferred from the chairman of BJMC to the Directorate
of Finance. Also, the corporation secretary would be relieved of general
administrative matters, for which a new Directorate of Administration is to
be created. It would deal with personnel management, training and labor
management, leaving the corporation secretary to look after public relations,
legal affairs, security and board affairs. Consequently, BJMC would have
seven directorates in the future as compared with the present six. The
recommendations of the Study Group are basically sound and BJMC should take
steps to implement the reorganization speedily.
29.       Systems and Procedures.  BJMC is currently testing a process account-
ing system which was initiated in the action program of the Fifth Imports
Program Credit, and executed by EWP consultants of Dacca paid for under an
ODA grant. At the moment, there are two test mills (Bangladesh Jute Mills
and Jessore Jute Mills). After a period of further testing (i.e. to about
March 31, 1980) implementation should take place in all mills. EWP consultants
have also developed a Management Information System (MIS) and submitted their
report to BJMC on August 31, 1979. The MIS aims at reducing and standardizing
the information flow from the mills to BJMC. Although at this time, it is not
yet fully operational, the proposal is sound and, after review and modifica-
tions, is expected to be implemented by June 1980. However, the proposal does
not provide for (i) aggregation and analysis of the mills' production informa-
tion; (ii) consolidation of the production information with raw material
purchase, financial and sales information; and (iii) standardization of
information flow within BJMC, including monthly reporting to BJMC's Board of
Directors. BJMC has agreed to extend the MIS to cover the above areas.
30.       BJMC's staff totals 24,000 (about 1,000 at headquarters and zonal
offices and 23,000 in the mills). The mills employ about 204,000 workers
(144,000 permanent, 59,000 badlis, and 1,000 temporaries), of whom on average
147,000 were in attendance during FY79. The major problem remains the quality
of staff rather than the quantity. Compared with the private sector and em-
ployment opportunities abroad, BJMC's salaries are low, making it difficult
to attract and retain qualified personnel. Civil Service salaries are being
studied by a GOB pay commission, but final recommendations, directly affect-
ing BJMC's staff, have not yet been made. (GOB, however, increased wages
for workers by about 30% in November 1978 retroactively from July 1, 1977.)
The training program, initiated under the action program for the Sixth Import
Program Credit, is in progress as are the incentive schemes for BJMC and mill
personnel. BJMC will review the impact of the incentive schemes at the end
of 1979. The training programs and incentive system should help to improve
quality and performance of BJMC's staff. Previous missions had identified
the problem of much too frequent intermill transfer of managers. Between
September 1978 and August 1979, 26 mill managers were transferred. This
rate of transfer, while still considered too high (the mill manager stays



- 80 -
ANNEX VII
Page 10
an average of 2.6 years in one mill), is lower than in previous years, and
BJMC has reconfirmed its intent to limit further the transfer of mill managers.
31.      *Audit.  The audit of individual mills is still behind schedule,
although they are slowly being brought up to date. As of September 1978,
the audit of FY76 had been completed and final reports received for all 74
mills. The audit of FY77 had been completed and final reports received for
70 mills. For FY78, the audit had been completed for 50 mills, and final
reports had been received for 11 mills. Completion of FY78 audits is expected
by March 31, 1980, and of FY79 audits by September 30, 1980.
32.       Finances.  In FY79, BJMC suffered losses of Tk 608 million as com-
pared with Tk 515 million in FY77. The record losses were a result of sharply
increased raw jute prices (up 32% over FY78) and wage increases of about 30%
which GOB announced in November 1978, retroactive as of July 1, 1977. These
cost increases were only partly absorbed by higher sales prices (up 21% 1/
over FY78) for jute goods. Losses in FY79 were decreased because raw jute
prices rose only 3.5% and sales prices 28% over FY78. 1/ On the other hand,
power failures and labor unrest caused production losses of about 40,000 tons
and 20,000 tons respectively in FY79; thus, total production was reduced to
494,000 tons (530,000 tons in FY78) and per unit costs increased by 15%.
33.       All three major products continued to make losses in FY79, but due
to higher sales prices than in FY78 their per ton losses were reduced by
about 52% for hessian, 49% for sacking and 13% for carpetbacking. Hessian
accounted for about 39% of total losses, sacking for 19%, and carpetbacking
for 37% as compared with 47%, 25%, and 23% respectively in FY78. Hessian
experienced the largest price increases (30%), followed by sacking (24%), and
carpetbacking (20%). On hessian and sacking, the industry is covering its raw
material and conversion cost, which justifies continued production. Continued
production of carpetbacking is also justified, as the FY79 sales prices
covered the raw material cost and most of the conversion cost. The shortfall
constitutes 6% of the factory wages so that 94% of the wages are still covered.
Assuming shadow rates of 50% for wages and 80% for foreign exchange, produc-
tion of all these products was economically viable in all jute mills, (includ-
ing the financially weakest ones), during FY79. 2/
34.       Raw material costs, factory wages, interest charges, and sales
prices remain the major factors affecting operating performance. After
steep increases since 1974, raw jute costs have levelled off in FY79 and are
1/   Partly due to a devaluation of about 11% of the Taka against the b,
in which the sales prices of jute goods are quoted.
2/   Economic profit per ton in the weakest mill of each product was Tk 2,792
for hessian (Meghna Jute Mills), Tk 1,741 for sacking (Anowara Jute Mills),
and Tk 2,790 for carpetbacking (Ashraf Jute Mills).



- 81 -                    A~NNEX VII
Page 11
expected to drop by 8% in FY80 because BJMC has (i) large carryover stocks
from FY79 partly due to power shortages; and (ii) established an effective
raw jute purchasing system, making it less dependent on private traders.
In the medium run, prices are expected to rise 3% in FY81 and remain constant
thereafter. Factory wages, which were increased by 30% by GOB in November
1978, are likely to remain constant. The negative impact of wage increases
could be partly offset through higher production efficiencies resulting from
better maintenance, quality control and equipment rehabilitation. Interest
charges of Tk 402 million in FY79 (representing about 67% of BJMC's losses)
had a major impact on BJMC's profitability, which could be improved through
adequate capital restructuring. Sales prices for jute goods, which have
risen by an average of 25% per annum over FY77, FY78 and FY79, are expected
to rise by about 35% in FY80. These increases reflect (i) higher prices of
competing polypropylene, due to higher oil prices; (ii) lower supplies in
FY79 because of power shortages in Bangladesh; and (iii) disruption of exports
from India, caused by strikes of the barge-men in November/December 1978 and
the mill workers in January/February 1979. An 11% drop of sales prices over
the medium term is forecast. However, BJMC is expected to achieve operating
profits of Tk 849 million and Tk 313 million respectively during FY80 and
FY81. With the impact of capital restructuring (paragraph 35) and rehabili-
tation, the industry should continue to be profitable in the medium term.
35.       Under the Seventh Imports Program Credit, GOB agreed to establish
BJMC's debt/equity ratio at 60:40 within a maximum period of five years
from credit effectiveness by (i) reimbursement of cash operating losses for
FY78 and thereafter in full on a periodical basis; (ii) making allocations
in the annual Government budget for losses incurred prior to FY78; and
(iii) making allocation in the annual Government budget to contribute equity
to the jute industry. Until now, GOB has assured BJMC's continued liquidity
by (i) paying loss subsidies (Tk 100 million in FY78 and Tk 257 million in
FY79); (ii) making equity infusions (Tk 100 million in FY78 and Tk 200 million
in July 1979); and (iii) export subsidies (Tk 490 million in FY78 and Tk 330
million in FY79). The export subsidy, however, will be discontinued in FY80,
due to the expected profits. In total, the subsidies from GOB accounted for
76% of the operating losses in FY78 and FY79. Wilth these payments, GOB kept
BJMC liquid. To place the operations of the BJMC on a sound commercial basis
GOB has agreed to an annually phased capital restructuring program for BJMC
and its units to be fully implemented by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.06 and
Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreements). Under the program GOB
would, by June 30, 1980, convert into equity about Tk 37 crore (US$24.0 mil-
lion) of ADP loans and about Tk 50 crore (US$32.0 million) of GOB interest free
loans. GOB would also by December 31, 1983 provide BJMC with infusions of cash
totalling about Tk 270 crore (US$175 million) to cover the repayment of the
Tk 170 crore (US$110 million) of long term debts to the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
(BSB) and the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS) and about Tk 100 crore
(US$64 million) due to the Bangladesh Bank and the Commercial Banks on mill
debentures. The total amount of cash infusions would be subject to verifica-
tion and the amount of each yearly cash payment subject to the availability of
budgetary resources. The total amount of cash infusions would be adjusted
also by any after tax profits or losses incurred by BJMC and its units during
the period to December 31, 1983. However GOB has agreed that it would



ANNEX VII
- 82 -                   Page 12
provide a yearly minimum cash infusion equal to the amount required by BJMC
and its units to service the debts due to BSB, BSRS and the Commercial
Banking system in accordance with repayment schedules agreed with the lending
institutions. Conversion of the ADP loans, and GOB's cash infusions would
reduce BJMC's debt/equity ratio to 60:40 and would reduce overall interest
charges by about Tk 350 per ton, thus making product lines profitable.
Prospects
36.       General.  As discussed above, market growth is expected to be
limited, averaging about 2% per annum over the next two to three years. Even
with this slow growth, BJMC would need to make substantial efforts in market-
ing and quality control to maintain and increase its market share and to
increase its research and development efforts to determine alternative uses
for jute and improve existing production. BJMC would also need to improve
further its management, which would result in increased production efficien-
cies and reduction of unit conversion costs. This would make the industry
economically more efficient and keep any financial subsidies to a minimum.
37.       In addition to improvements in management, rehabilitation and back
processing machinery is also needed -- particularly because of the poor con-
dition of the equipment and because of the use of lighter fabrics, which
require more spinning time. ECL executed a mill-by-mill survey (Jute Sector
Study) to assess the balancing, modernization and rehabilitation requirements
of the jute industry. On the basis of the study, a jute industry rehabilita-
tion project providing for rehabilitation of machinery, improvements in
organization and provision of training facilities has been developed. This
project, now being appraised, would aim to achieve long term economic and
financial viability for the industry through programs to eliminate technical
constraints, monitor product mixes and to develop adequate incentive systems
for men and management.
38.       Impact of the Rehabilitation Project.  Improvement in production
efficiencies and management as a result of rehabilitation would increase
production capacity which may be beyond the economically optimal level of
production. However, given power shortages, labor unrest and large scale
absenteeism, it would be unrealistic to expect close to 100% capacity util-
ization. Moreover, the economically optimal level of production which is
mainly a function of the raw jute price, the conversion costs, and the sales
prices for jute goods, is very sensitive towards these widely fluctuating
parameters. Benefits from the rehabilitation would occur in the form of
additional production due to increased spinning and weaving efficiencies.
Between FY79 and FY81 weaving efficiencies are expected to increase from 49%
to 51% for hessian, 62% to 65% for sacking and 62% to 66% for carpet backing.
On these assumptions, the economic rate of return on the proposed investment
of approximately US$15.0 million would be about 59%. The improvements in
production efficiencies, coupled with reduced interest charges from capital
restructuring should result in these product lines being produced profitably.
Given the projected profitability of BJMC's operations and in the absence
of a clear trend towards unfavorable market/production conditions, mill
closures do not seem to be justified at present.



83 3                                                                                 Arga l VI3
Atr; d=ent 1
5ANCLAD5H J4_ MY7LLS ORFQA_CIC
Pvrfortnve  1,o-.d .t-rs and GOer.ti.o-l T..etS
'riginal
FY74      FY75    Fy75                     _Fy
A.  .AR7'ET FROJEC.1ON
figure. tn   CCC sons)
1. Wo..d E.norts of
R    z ...~363                     611    380          379         478         3t6  3j         3         401          100
S.okins                  270       363    300          325         383         '52           325         325         325
Ctrpb.clkSr4             228       143    aao          082         ZL6         720           200         21i         220
Oth-rn                   153       *24      82          77         6b         ,-    !         99         002         120
Tota0        l           iL6      0.4      972        963,       1.136         t3          L           1.075       L, as
2. booty, Sv 6350C
H8asian                  153       136    162         156          085         1721         175         1s8         197
S-enkOo                  208       !74    210         114          244         197         245          182         213
Carpetb.akir4             62        '42     64          72          76          75           80          85          89
3t.her                    23        17      22         Z2           17                        0 1         9
CargO                    4.46      369    468         444          522                      523 325      60         506
3.  ?ndatitha836
a.. tan                  168       444    160         163           73  Z 672              I80           484         205
Saceking                 222      035    Zia          224          260       3Z30          285          233          244
Cazs.beackin              65        a3      i8         69           74         75           80            88          88
3t4.re            ~~~~~30    08      34i         25         2.3        -17            20           23 
To"al                   435       432    470          aOL          535        S94          25i          525          550
3. _FFTCIEYCY TARGETS
4.  43j5fl453PtSOfarlCS
(P>vd,.c:on 04.3
,piodl. hr .
8e..n .I0l9?                                                                    Z...      -.66 75    .651 78  .666 S0
Zesg 1 6010 WEFT                                      A-erag       AVe.- .   A.ver.Se    .653 64.   .673 66   .694 68
SaHi.g t- 439 3T   '              H                     657           653        65?.     -.685 65      .707 66   .728 68
Sacki= g 'AEFT                                                                            1.90  64   1.96  66  2.02  6d
C. a. 348R                                                                                 .636 80    .659 83   .675 85
C. 3. AF1                                                                                  .293 30    .616 83   .630 85
5.   !x0Ir0fC
{5iHducia:in Ohs !
bvdg.tad lono hr )
esaten                                  6.14         6.05 484k   6.17 49   6.31 49   6.22  46   6.33  49  6.56  50
s.nn5ia                    N           17.63 760-   17.57 6004    I.05 i9  17.69 60  18.;7  62  17.67  60 19.41  65
Z.rv.tb ... L2                         16.37 61    14.21 601'  L3.32 57IbI3.29 6, 14.92  62it13.54  66 13.57  e6
,.  24eet.ea Satnennae 5r    NA                              7.95         7.51       7.09       7.30        6.80        6.50
7.  Cotv-r-to. Co.-          I,_38  Z,145                  2.320         2,573      3,853      3,173       4.106      4,059
:eoenf
S.  ao jut  Cens,fntion
F tto
latio of Av3. 3JMC Jo:.
Co.t to _verage ra.iet
Prtce                      1.23    1.09     :.:9         '.20         1.01       0.22       1.15         1.l0       L.10
^.  CAPACICY REO,UIRED 
9. 44aber. of L.or-
ReqWired
H eklag                   .         u .A   02,165     12,702       12,74-  12,734    13,2S7           14,072    L4,348
5,539       5,980         6,:802"    6.023.      7.049  It  5,974,    5,779
Carpsohaaking                             t10.6        1520        _7675_   .750  1    1.652   1, Mg    2.029
19,910      20,103       21,351   20,5051    23,985    Z2.035    22.147
10.  Nu,ob-rs of L-oea
Av-ilbl. forJ
3 dg-ted)
SHtag                   .YA              .4,5;6      4 13,496'    14,;61   15,327         14,046a    15,903   16,23
C.rpetb..kinC                            "2,44        7502',7      7.622    6,773  I        7.742i    7,062    6,762
Car5atbavkong                  3~~~~~~~, 140  2,040     -L8        2.1446        3104        2.315
24 010      Z3,129       23,'68   24,238          23,8941    25,230  25Z9
;1.  5 snoanraeoo                                                                          f
Sio_O  rt rs                                         -.q 
Sessia                    N         YAt 9S                                       47 A  t.  I    4 1         12      12
.arpotb..kiiv1                                           29            20        ,9 _    2                  15      3
D.       '--EZENI T
-:erv,rnt,tc WovOetsI
'^00)                     1 1       1:2          .
-,  rZpFITAL 0 rgcC4'75-                                                        ' 39       144'         134       433         !25
L6.DlEquicyC Ratio     2C.2:;      EG         iEC      'E2
rD/EqSc.o0  Ratio      10.3:!   'TEG         'iEG      NEC          *LE1G        yT0Z0C       NA       .AC
3it-         --o         n-
a   aos-  Jn veva:ZZg bee -r
bh Sasd 00l 1.u .eav.vv :00r _
c   CCCLcuaooc St: eo baa   of  '-  ca'.
nacir.3>/=                - ;>  -  _<_;olu   O    b  :). a      ooooCatn 47sd oackoog T3c or 2-s4'4-  basO.v .or eo rn-.
Oe 3seo 00 loettboc oovo.
Nqve=ber ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~vttt s,}o



BANGLADESH JUTE MILLS CORPORATION
Financial Performance and Projections          (Taka/ton)
CONSOLIDATED                                                                             Original         T A R G E T
A C T U A L                                     TAr&et    (Constant 1979 Taka)
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78        FY79       FY79       FY80        FY81
Sales                   3,487      5,000      5,914       5,928      7,162       9,137      6,176     12,378    10,925
Raw Materials           1,867      2,723       3,156      3,600      4,758       5,031      3,675      4,686       4,644
Conversion Cost         1,838       2,145      2,255      2,320      3,195       3,959      3,249      4,342       4,368
Depreciation              227         267        291        306        290         352        272         352        370
Inventory Adj.           (234)      (317)        (27)      (180)      (270)      (133)        116          84        (31)
Cost of Goods Sold    3,698        4,818       5,675      6,046      7,973      9,209       7,312      9,464      9,351
Gross Profit (Loss)       (211)       182        239       (118)       (811)       (72)      (518)     2,984       1,574
Interest                  299        497         558        613        643        828         603        821        613
Other Expenses-/           230        293        279        322        272        360         269         395        391
Financial Net Profit
(Loss)                  (740)      (588)       (598)   (1,053)   (1,726)-/ 1026G2/   (1,390)          1,698        570
Profit (Loss) in
Crores Taka            (35.9)     (25.4)      (28.1)     (51.5)     (94.0)    (60.8)       (79.0)      84.9       31.3
4/ Administrative and selling expenses.                                                                                                                                  00
/ Not including other income of 34 taka/ton.
t/ Not including other income of 24 taka/ton.
November 7, 1979
P P
Pd >
n
a-~ 9 -4
U,



BANGLADESH JUTE MILLS CORPORATION
Financial Performance and Projections
(Taka/ton)
HESSIAN                                                                                     Original          T A R G E T
A C T U A L                                Target       (Constant 1979 Taka)
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77      FY78       FY79       FY79       FY80       FY81
Sales                         4,223      6,252      6,543      6,951    8,077   10,451        8,000      14,841    13,000
Raw Materials                 2,108      3,120      3,399      3,837    5,079    5,211        4,013       4,917      4,769
Conversion Cost               2,464      2,966      3,029      3,108    4,398    5,139        4,359       5,524      5,584
Depreciation                    297        338        358        366       361       410         332        391        374
Inventory Adj.                 (218)       (54)         4       (132)    (477)    (334)           84         27        (14)
Cost of Goods Sold            4,651      6,370      6,790      7,179    9,361   10,426        8,788    10,859       10,713
Gross Profit (Loss)            (428)      (118)      (247)      (228)  (1,219)        25        (788)    3,982       2,287
Interest        I               414        672        718        810      818       996         750        980         679
Other Expenses-                 278        314        318        412       343       452         325       472         467
Financial Net Profit                                                                     c/
(Loss)                      (1,120)   (1,104)   (1,283)   (1,450)  (2,445)L/(1,423)    (1,863)    2,530            1,141
co
41 Administrative and selling expenses.
b/r Nm
c/ Not including other income of 65 taka/ton.                                                                                   o ItC
c/ Not including other income of 28 taka/ton. 1                                                                                   m
November 7, 1979                                                                                                                 '



BANGIADESH JUTE MILLS CORPORATION
Financial Performance and Projections
(Taka/ton)
Sacking
Original    T A R G E T
A         C         T         U         A         L      Target  (Constant 1979 Taka)
FY74      FY15      FY76      FY//      FY78    iFY79      FY79      FY80      FY81
Sales                         2,745      4,071    4,993    4,768    6,127    7,617        5,500    9,903      8,000
Raw Materinls                 1,530      2,358    2,618    3,072    4,252    4,536        3,188    4,079      4,022
Conversion Cost               1,381      1,532    1,589    1,643    2,032    2,861        2,230    3,072      3,152
Depreciation                    149        150       164       167      160       199       146      190        186
Itiventory Adj.                (233)      (575)      (77)      (97)    (230)    (113)       123      165         14
Cost of Goods Sold            2,827      3,465    4,448    4,785    6,214    7,483        5,687    7,506      7,374
Gross Profit (Loss)             (82)       606       545       (27)      (87)     134      (187)  2,397         626
Interest                        187        258       301      312       589      478        332      453        328
Otthor Expenses a/              19(        230       216       228       213      281       206      313        313
Financial Net                  (459)       118        28      (557)    (889) b/ 625 c/  (725)  1,631            (15)
Profit (Loss)
0'
a/ Administrative and selling expenses.                                                                                    >
b/ Not including other income of 12 taka/ton.                                                                           nQ fl i
c/ Not including other income of 17 takalton.                                                                           aq  t
November 7, 1979                                                                                                         0  C
t-J



BANGLADESH JUTE MILLS CORPORATION
financiaI Performance and Proiections
(Taka/ton)
Carpet Backing Cloth                                                             Original    TARGET
A        C         T        U         A        L       Target  (Constant 1979 Taka)
FY74     FY75      FY76     FY77      FY78     FY79      FY79     FY80      FY81
Sales                        4,697    6,117    8,089    7,899    8,892    10,714   9,000   14,018    14,000
Raw Materials                2,485    3,588    4,294    4,668    5,802        6,111   4,637    5,884       6,046
Conversion Cost              2,158    3,049    2,813    2,913    3,985        4,867   3,902    5,300       5,058
Depreciation                   364       699      576       628      619        723      492       754       665
Inventory Adj.                 (60)    (428)       13      (116)    (187)      (184)    137        (4)        (6)
Cost of Goods Sold           4,947    6,908    7,696    8,093   10,219    11,517   9,168   11,934    11,763
(Gross Profit (Loss)          (250)    (791)      393      (194)  (1,327)       803    (168)   2,014       2,237
Interest                       474    1,101    1,152    1,217    1,258        1,556   1,000     1,527        993
Other Expenses a/              271       399      401       424       338       415      304       472        452
Financial Net
Profit (Loss)                 (995)  (2,291)  (1,160)  (1,835)  (2,923)-'  (2,774)--CL,472)         85        792
a/ Administrative and Selling Expenses                                                                                       p  
9/ Not including other income of 37 taka/ton.                              -,
cf Not including other income of 34 taka/ton.
November 7, 1979                                                                            .                                    H



BlANGLADESH JUTE MILLS CORPORATION
Financial Performance and Projections            (Taka/ton)
Other
Original   T A R G E T
A         C         T         U         A         L       Target  (Constant 1979 Taka)
FY74      FY75      FY76      FY77      FY78      FY79      FY79      FY80       FY81
Sales                            -         -         -       5,070    6,150    12,711                12,015    12,000
Raw matertals                    -         -          -       3,865    4,709       7,014              5,224      4,739
Conversion Cost                  -         -          -       1,615    2,138       3,135              3,719      3,045
Depreciation                     -         -         -          260       193        236                239      1,977
Inventory Adj.                        -              -         (471)      102        280              1,562     (1,562)
Cost of Goods Sold               -         -         -       5,269      7,142    10,665              10,744      8,199
Gross Profit (Loss)              -          -        -         (199)    (992)    2,047                1,271      3,801
Interest                         -         -         -          541       549        851                938      2,383
Other Expenses a/                -         -         -          359       209        253                197         198
Financial Net L943C                                                                                     136      1,220
Profit (Lmsa)                    -         -         ~      (1,099)  (1,750)>!-
a/ Administrative and selling expenses.                                                                                       v                                    O
b/ Not including other income of 29 taka/ton.                                                                                    g0
c  Not including other income of 37 taka/ton.                                                                                                                      OD 1<
November 7, 1979                                                                                                                 '



- 89 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1
BANGLADESH
EIGHTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
THE COTTON TEXTILE INDUSTRY 1/
The Relative Importance of the Industry
1.        Bangladesh's cotton textile industry, represented by the Bangladesh
Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC), accounts for about 15% of the value added
in the manufacturing sector and employs 76,000 workers, approximately 4% of
the country's industrial workforce. The BTMC produces about 60% of the yarn
and about 11% of the cloth needed by the country. The private organized
sector produces no yarn and a limited amount of cloth (production is limited
to specialty cloths, such as silk, synthetic mixes, etc.). The handloom
sector, with 437,000 looms (of which 260,000 or 59% are operational) employs
850,000 people on a full and part-time basis adding considerably to the income
of people in the rural and semi-urban areas. At current levels of operation,
the sector produces about 60% of the country's cloth. The balance of yarn
and cloth requirements are imported.
IDA and the Action Programs
2.        In 1975, IDA conducted a study of the cotton textile industry in
Bangladesh 1/. This identified the need for a number of medium-long term
actions to resolve operational difficulties and to provide the infrastructural
basis for the long-term development of the industry. On the basis of the
survey, an action program was developed and introduced under the Fourth
Imports Program Credit and was subsequently expanded under the Fifth and Sixth
Imports Program Credits. This annex reviews the performance and prospects of
the public organized sector (BTMC), which is a major beneficiary of IDA
program credit financing.
II. THE PERFORMANCE AND PROBLEMS OF THE SECTOR
_bhjectives of Operation
3.        In reviewing the performance of the public organized textile sector
(i.e. BTMC), for FY79 it is necessary to consider the objectives set for its
1/   The structure of the industry is described in detail in Report 883-BD,
Bangladesh - Survey of the Jute and Textile Industries - September 25,
1978.



- 90 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2
operation and to determine the impact that availability of resources, autonomy,
etc. have had upon BTMC's ability to achieve them. At the time of nationaliza-
tion in FY72, GOB indicated that the public sector textile units were to be
operated, within the framework of economic policy, as autonomous commercial
enterprises achieving a reasonable rate of return on equity. The profit
objective was linked to the social objective of providing cloth at a reason-
able price to the common man 1/. Accordingly, prices were to be established
on the basis of attainable costs based upon industry efficiency norms (i.e.
standard costs). GOB indicated also that BTMC and unit management would be
given sufficient autonomy to carry out the management and operating actions
necessary to achieve the objectives.
4.        While BTMC was given the task of running the industry on a sound
commercial basis (although not of maximising profits), GOB intervened in
several areas in ways which constrained achievement of the primary objective.
GOB arranged raw cotton procurement, sometimes to the disadvantages of BTMC
(paragraph 7). Wage rate increases were awarded by GOB without any linkage
to productivity improvements (paragraph 11). Further, management was pre-
vented from sealing facilities and reducing workforces necessary to optimize
production efficiency (paragraph 12). Finally, GOB also reduced or controlled
selling prices despite general cost inflation (paragraph 16).
5.        The autonomy of BTMC has clearly been limited and the Corporation
is burdened with requirements which make it difficult to achieve the profit-
ability targets set by GOB (and IDA). However, under the action programs,
some impact has been made on increasing BTMC's autonomy. Major constraints
on spare parts procurement, raw cotton procurement (below $1.5 million), unit
personnel recruitment and marketing have been removed and changes have been
agreed in the areas of price control and cotton procurement, which should
give BTMC even more autonomy. It is against the background of conflicting
objectives and slowly achieved autonomy that the performance of BTMC for
FY79 should be reviewed.
Production Efficiency and Capacity Utilization
6.        During FY79, performance in the industry was mixed, with a marginal
increase in the level of spinning efficiency and a fall in weaving efficiency.
In spinning, the average production per spindle shift rose from 2.38 oz (FY78)
to 2.40 oz in FY79. For weaving, average output per loom shift fell from
20.3 yds (FY78) to 19.9 yds (FY79).  Efficiency for both spinning and weaving
is still considerably below international standards, including those in other
countries in the South Asia Region. Allowing for a reduction in the number
of installed spindles, capacity utilization remained static at 82%. For weav-
ing, capacity utilization improved, rising from 67% in FY78 to 75% in FY79.
With the marginal increase in spinning efficiency, production of yarn 2/
1/   GOB's pricing policies were formalized in a statement submitted to
IDA in September 1979.
2/   For comparative purposes, actual yarn and cloth production for FY74-FY79
has been converted to production of 32 count yarn and 54 pic cloth.



- 91 -                    ANNEX VIII
Page 3
increased from 106.9 million lbs in FY78 to 110.3 million lbs in FY79. Pro-
duction of cloth increased also from 84.5 million yds in FY78 to 88.3 million
yds in FY79. These results are in line with the agreed targets for yarn pro-
duction, but are 12% (i.e. 12.0 million yds) below the target set for cloth
production. Loom utilization increased from 67% in FY78 to 75% in FY79,
although the number of installed looms fell by 500 (6%). Wastage on yarn
production increased from 9.5% to 9.9% while wastage on cloth production re-
mained static at 4.1%. Overall, these results are below the targets agreed
with GOB during negotiations for the Seventh Imports Program Credit.
7.        Factors Affecting Production Efficiency/lltilization.  The major
obstacles to improved efficiency and increased capacity utilization - poor
quality raw cotton, power shortages, labour unrest and inadequate maintenance -
noted during the appraisal of the Seventh Imports Program Credit continued
during FY79. Scope for improving production efficiency in many mills is
limited also by the nature of plants nationalized (some constructed in 1898
and the early 1920s). The inadequacy of primary quality control on raw
cotton purchases has resulted in the passing of incorrectly graded/high
trash content cotton to the mills, disrupting production of specific yarn
counts and dislocating the relationship between spinning and weaving equip-
ment geared to specific production qualities. The use of USDA specifications
for cotton shipment has been introduced during FY79 to overcome this prob-
lem and this action is to be strengthened by the introduction in FY80 of
preshipment inspection of all deliveries for purchases made directly by BTMC.
Government to Government purchases of low grade cotton of short staple
length 1/ has also resulted in significant disruptions to production, poor
machine efficiency and high levels of wastage. This form of cotton procure-
ment, whilst made at an initially low cost, results in batch level wastages
of 12%-14% of input as compared to an average wastage level of 8%-9% when
using higher grade USDA specification cotton. The impact of another factor
outside the control of management, power shortages, increased significantly
over the levels experienced during FY78, with many mills reduced to working
four-hour shifts or abandoning shifts altogether 2/. Resulting losses of
yarn rose from 3% in FY78 to 10% in FY79, a loss of about 11.0 million lbs.
Loss of cloth production increased also, rising from 1% in FY78 to 7% in
FY79, a loss of 6.2 million yds of cloth. Labour disputes and wildcat strikes
continued to disrupt production in FY79, notwithstanding a substantial in-
crease in fringe benefits and a wage rate increase of 60% awarded to all
public sector employees in June 1978. Losses in production from industrial
unrest, normally about 5% of possible yarn and cloth production, increased
1/   Staple lengths of 1.0" and above are required to give satisfactory
production. Staple lengths below 1.0" (particularly Pakistan/Russian
cotton) result in excessive breakages and knotting.
2/   Load shedding and blackouts occurred throughout the year.  However,
between March and June, BPDC introduced mandatory four-hour cuts of
industrial usage during peak periods.



- 92 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4
to 7%. Absenteeism during FY79 of 30% was held static as a result of the
introduction of attendance bonuses, increase in output incentives and an
increase in the pool of trained badlies.
Personnel Administration
8.        General.  During FY79, BTMC introduced a number of changes to its
organization structure, and reassigned several major functional responsibili-
ties. The changes included the grouping of mills for administrative control
purposes, the splitting of the purchasing and marketing functions, and the
creation of a maintenance department within the Technical/Operations
Directorate. The changes have strengthened BTMC's organization, which has
continued to function satisfactorily.
9.        Staff.  The lack of a pool of competent mill managers/supervisors
continued to hamper BTMC's attempts to improve the performance of mills where
management weaknesses have been identified as the cause of the inefficiency.
Transfers of managers between mills, although at a greatly reduced level,
continued to be used by BTMC as a solution to this problem. During FY79,
60 managers/supervisors were transferred (in FY78, 110 managers/supervisors
were transferred).
10.       Training.  During FY79, BTMC continued implementing the comprehen-
sive training program agreed with IDA under the Sixth Imports Program Credit.
In March 1978, a new spinning mill (Kohinoor) with 25,000 spindles was com-
missioned as a training mill. Initially, it was expected that 600 new and
existing employees would pass through the mill's training program every three
months (i.e. 3,000 by August 1979). However, teething problems and a longer
learning cycle for new employees have reduced the actual throughput. As of
August 31, 1979, about 2,000 employees had been trained and been relocated
to other mills. After the initial establishment of a training institute for
technical, management and general administrative training, there has been
little progress in the development of the institute and much more management
effort is needed to make the concept effective. IDA is monitoring the pro-
gress on implementing the training institute.
11.       Wage and Incentive Systems.  Under the Sixth Imports Program Credit,
GOB/BTMC agreed to the review of BTMC's salary structure and the introduction
of incentive systems. During FY77 and FY78, a production-oriented incentive
system was introduced, followed by GOB's restructuring of the wage system in
June 1978. Notwithstanding these actions, the setting of wage rates and in-
centives continued to be a major problem, both in terms of labour relations
and operating autonomy. The unions within BTMC have pressed for improved
benefits and incentives, resorting to strike action to achieve these objec-
tives. However, BTMC is unable to adjust its incentive/wage structure with-
out approval of GOB, which requires a uniform wage/incentive system for all
public sector organizations. As it is currently operated, BTMC's incentive
system is not related to profitability but continues to focus upon production
irrespective of the levels of wastage/rejection. On the basis of discussions
with IDA, BTMC is further revising its system, inter alia, to deal with the
problem of providing rewards for a percentage achievement of target rather
than attainment of target or better than target performance.



- 93 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 5
Marketing and Sales
12.       Against the background of a liberalized Government policy allowing
substantial imports of low cost synthetic and trade reject 1/ cloth, BTMC
sales of yarn and cloth increased by 29% and 2.5% respectively. Yarn stocks
were considerably reduced and year-end stockholdings represent less than one
month's sales. The higher level of cloth production (Table 1) in FY79 and
the slow growth in cloth sales affected closing stocks which, as of June 30,
1979, represented 10.7 weeks of sales (FY78, 8 weeks sales). The bulk of
this stockholding is 36" grey markin cloth 2/, which is not acceptable to
consumers who have access to fully-finished, low cost 54" polyester/cotton
imports. Stockholdings of grey markin have continued to increase during
FY80 reaching 12 week sales in September 1979. Because of GOB pressures to
maintain production and employment levels, BTMC has not been able to seal
looms nor reduce production of the cloth.
Stock and Sales of Yarn and Cloth - (BTMC)
FY75   FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80  /a
Yarn (Million lbs)
Sales /b                 60.2   84.1   70.4   61.7   79.9   129.7
Production              100.6   91.1   93.5  106.9  110.3   137.5
Stock                    23.3    7.7    2.1   10.1    5.9        -
Cloth (Million yds)
Sales                    77.3   75.0   84.7   81.4   83.8   134.9
Production               85.9   75.9   68.6   84.5   88.3   117.5
Stock                    24.8   25.7    9.6   12.7   17.2        -
/a Estimated.
/b Does not include yarn used within BTMC.
13.       During FY79, BTMC made a number of changes in the marketing and
distribution of yarn and cloth. In the case of yarn, an allocation of 54,000
bales, was made to the Handloom Board for direct sale to weaver cooperatives/
weavers at a 1% markup on ex mill selling price. The balance of yarn pro-
duction is now allocated on a 50%-50% basis to dealers and to Handloom/
Weaver Cooperatives. In the case of cloth, BTMC has expanded its sales and
display centres and is pursuing a program of appointing Thana-based cloth
dealers.
1/   Defined under GOB's import policy as secondhand cloth/clothing, the
item is made up mainly of producers' old stocks sold at marginal
cost to dispose of inventories.
2/   The majority of the looms in BTMC's weaving units are 36" units, which
produce about 50% of BTMC's total production. Where BMR has been carried
out, loom widths have been increased to 48" or 54".



- 94 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 6
Financial Management and Control
14.       Profitability.  During negotiations for the Seventh Imports Program
Credit, a before tax profit of Tk 136.0 million was set as the target for
BTMC's FY79 operations. However, in retrospect, it was unreasonable to ex-
pect BTMC to achieve such a profit, given that it did not have the autonomy
of operations, particularly in the setting of prices, wage rates, staffing
levels and product rationalization 1/ necessary to achieve it. As a result
of a GOB enforced price reduction of 10%, which became effective on July 1,
1978, and the payment of the second tranche of GOB's retroactive wage rate
increase 2/, BTMC's before tax profit was held to Tk 48 million (FY78 loss
Tk 77.0 million). After providing for income tax, this profit was converted
to a loss of Tk 35.0 million 3/ (FY78, loss Tk 113.0 million).
15.       Financial Structure.  As a result of the conflict of objectives
(i.e. the commercial operation of BTMC units vs. their continued socio-economic
operation) and the impact of controlled selling prices (para 16), 25 of BTMC's
58 operational units have negative equities and are reliant upon large work-
ing capital loans from the banking system to remain operational 4/. Under the
Sixth Imports Program Credit, BTMC was required to revalue its assets. This
requirement has been completed and the details available for incorporation
into the required capital restructuring. During negotiations for the Seventh
Imports Program Credit GOB agreed, in principle, to the need for restructuring
and to a target debt/equity ratio of 60:40 for each mill. GOB has agreed to
the implementation, by December 31, 1984, of an annually phased program of
loan conversion and cash infusions necessary to give BTMC and its units a debt
equity ratio of 60:40 (Section 3.06 and Schedule 3 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Under the program GOB would, by June 30 1980, convert into
equity about Tk 33 crore (US$21 million) of ADP loans and by December 31, 1984
make five yearly cash payments to provide BTMC and its units with about Tk 86
crore (US$55 million) of additional equity. The total amount of cash infusions
would be subject to verification and the amount of each yearly cash payment
subject to the availability of budgetary resources. The total amount of cash
infusions would be adjusted also to reflect any after tax profits or losses
1/   If BTMC had been able to operate as an autonomous commercial enter-
prise, it would have stopped production of unsaleable 36" grey markin
cloth, sealed looms and laid off workers.
2/   In July 1978, GOB announced a restructuring of the public service pay
scales and a 30% increase in the basic rates paid to industrial workers.
The award, which increased fringe benefits and wages, was made retro-
active to January 1977. The retrospective element of the award was
Tk 130.0 million.
3/   On the basis of implementation of GOB's pricing policy for BTMC,
after tax profit should have been Tk 65.0 million.
4/   In FY77, FY78 and FY79 BTMC units have had negative current ratios
(current assets: current liabilities) of 1.5, 1.1 and 1.1 respectively
compared to positive ratios of 1.0-1.5 accepted as an industry norm



- 95 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 7
earned by BTMC and its units during the period to December 31, 1984. However
GOB has agreed that it would provide a yearly minimum infusion equal to the
amount required to service BTMC/units repayment to BSB, BSRS and the Commercial
Banks on term debts in accordance with agreed repayment schedules. Additional
to the capital restructuring, GOB has agreed to implement by September 30,
1980, such actions as are necessary to provide that BTMC's after tax return on
shareholders equity is at least 10% per annum (Section 3.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
16.       Pricing.  Although rising production costs, particularly for wages
and raw cotton, have had a considerable impact upon BTMC's profitability,
the setting of ex mill prices of yarn and cloth by GOB is still the major
factor influencing profitability. GOB's stated policy is to set price levels
on a cost plus basis (currently a target of a 10% after tax return on equity).
However, over the past four years, GOB has operated a politically-motivated
policy of ad hoc changes with consequent heavy after tax losses for BTMC. In
October 1977, as a requirement for presentation of the Sixth Imports Program
Credit, GOB increased BTMC's sales of yarn and cloth, both of which continued
to be sold by retailers at substantial premia in the open market. In June
1978, notwithstanding the substantial wage rate increases announced in the
same month, GOB announced a 10% price reduction on BTMC's basic products 1/
(this despite the fact that the standard costs established on the basis of
industry efficiency norms indicated the need for a price increase). As a
result of this price reduction, sales of 30 count yarn were made at below
cost, (Tk 20.4 per lb), notwithstanding that the CIF cost of competitive
imported 32-count yarn from Pakistan, Hong Kong and India averaged Tk 22.6
per lb, Tk 26.1 per lb, Tk 28.4 per lb, respectively. To rectify the situa-
tion GOB has agreed to take appropriate action to adjust BTMC's pricing
struture.
17.       Obsolete Units.  The profitability of BTMC continued to be signifi-
cantly affected by the operations of units requiring extensive rehabilitation
and modernizing. These units incurred FY79 operating losses of Tk 118.0 mil-
lion (FY78, Tk 98.7 million). However, these units are scheduled for priority
rehabilitation under the proposed textile balancing, modernizing and rehabili-
tation (BMR) project currently being considered for IDA financing. It is
anticipated that the units will become profitable once the rehabilitation
programs and capital restructuring (paragraph 15) are completed.
18.       Management Control.  During FY79, BTMC continued implementing the
system and procedural changes initiated during FY78 with consequent reductions
in the delays in data presentation (monthly operating results are now avail-
able within six working days after the month end). Monthly operating reports
have been revised to focus upon key control data (e.g. sales, cost of sales,
gross and net profit, stock holdings, production losses, etc.) but have yet
to be revised to show comparatives against budgets. BTMC's program to upgrade
its management reporting systems through improved staffing has continued. As
of August 31, 1979, 150 accounting officers had been recruited and had comr
pleted a three-month training program based upon BTMC's management information
1/   Mainly 30 and 40 counts of yarn which account for about 40% of BTMC's
total sales of yarn.



- 96 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 8
system requirements. With the introduction of the basic management information/
reporting system into all the operating units of BTMC, BTMC will, as previously
agreed with IDA (i) introduce flexible budgets and predetermined/standard
costing; (ii) establish updating of financing records on a daily rather than
month-end/quarterly basis; and (iii) redefine management's control data
requirements with greater emphasis upon management by exception.
19.       Audit.  During FY78 and FY79, BTMC took a number of actions to up-
grade its internal audit function and remove the weaknesses that existed in
the level of audit staffing. The number of audit teams has been increased
from six to ten and a detailed mill audit program implemented during FY79.
The role of the internal audit function has been expanded to include a review
of management practices and BTMC has established a technical audit team to
review production procedures and efficiencies. Internal audit is now under
the direct control of the Chairman. The external audit program is still be-
hind the schedule agreed under the Sixth Imports Program Credit, which called
for the completion of the FY78 and preceding external audits by December 1978.
As of September 30, 1979, 10-unit audits remained incomplete for FY77 and
47-unit audits remained incomplete for FY78. In all cases, however, the
accounts of the units concerned have been prepared and are ready for audit
by the external auditors. This delay in completing the external audit is
not peculiar to BTMC, but is common to most public sector corporations and
results from the acute shortage of qualified public accountants in Bangladesh.
III. The Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Industry
Ongoing Investments
20.       Since FY72 (the year of nationalization), GOB has pursued a three-
pronged program of investment in the industry in order to provide yarn for
the handloom sector and cloth direct to the consumer. Investment in new spin-
ning mills, the BMR of "sick" mills and the provision of essential spare parts
for rehabilitation of other units has totalled about Tk 800.0 million. The
bulk of this investment goes into new units and the BMR of the "sick" units.
Currently, BTMC are constructing six new spinning mills and expanding the
spinning capacity of four other mills. However, while BTMC in increasing
its facilities, its top priority is the extensive maintenance of existing
units, followed by rehabilitation of old equipment.
Maintenance
21.       Prior to FY78, maintenance programs were limited due to the lack
of foreign exchange to purchase essential spare parts. In FY78 and FY79, GOB
made available sufficient cash foreign exchange for spare parts purchases and
this, coupled with the autonomy given to mill managers in FY78 to purchase
spares on the local market up to certain financial limits, has consider-
ably improved spare parts availability. The six maintenance task forces
established in FY78 to assist mill managers implement major maintenance pro-
grams and to establish daily maintenance programs have achieved some success
in their operations, but the lack of trained mechanics at mill level has



- 97 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 9
reduced the effectiveness of the general mill maintenance program 1/.  Mill
maintenance practices and the requirements necessary to strengthen existing
facilities for producing spare parts and replacement equipment are currently
being reviewed under a UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance program to improve
mill productivity and maintenance.
Rehabilitation
22.       The review of the BMR needs of the industry required under the
Sixth Imports Program Credit has been completed and a proposal for the reha-
bilitation of 50 mills in three phases was submitted to IDA in March 1979 for
appraisal and financing. The program aims at increasing the number of opera-
tional spindles by 175,000, operational looms by 1,750 and operational effi-
ciency from 1.4 oz per spindle shift to 2.83 oz. It is expected that on com-
pletion of the rehabilitation, production of yarn will increase by 38 million
lbs. Total cost of the project is expected to be Tk 774.6 million (US$50.0
million) with a foreign exchange component of Tk 5,25.0 million (US$33.8 mil-
lion). The proposals are currently being reviewed by IDA 2/ in order to link
the requirements with the results of the ongoing studies (i.e. potential for
man-made fibres, relative efficiency of handlooms vs. composite mills and the
survey of the handloom sector) aimed at identifying the long-term development
needs of the industry. The work of these various studies is on schedule and
should be available between January 1980 and March 1980.
Proposed Investment
23.       Preliminary drafts of the Textile Section of the next five-year
plan (FY81-FY85) indicate that GOB/MOT are proposing a total industry invest-
ment of Tk 4.2 billion (US$271 million) with a foreign exchange requirement
of Tk 2.3 billion (US$148.0 million). The break up of the investment is:
Tk. Million
Foreign
Total        Exchange
BMR (50 Mills)                           774.6           525.6
Ongoing Projects (6 Mills)               315.0           210.0
New Spinning Mills (20)                2,800.0         1,400.0
Training/Management
Improvement                             77.1            33.5
Laboratory/Quality Control               110.2            55.1
Ginning Plants                            60.0            27.0
Polyester/Cotton Plant                    75.0            45.0
4,211.9        2,296.2
1/   Under the Sixth Imports Program Credit, BTMC agreed to implement an
industry-wide training program. Facilities have been established for
the training of spinners, but no action has yet been taken to estab-
lish facilities to train technical staff, etc.
2/ The project is listed for preappraisal in FY81.



- 98 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 10
The foreign exchange component has been calculated on the basis that all
machinery will be imported. However, the manufacture of much of the required
equipment by the Bangladesh Machine Tool Factory (BMTF) would reduce the
foreign exchange requirement.
24.       Implementation of this investment program is expected to result in
the production by BTMC of 330.0 million lbs of yarn and the production, by
BTMC and the Handloom Sector, of about 1.2 billion yds of cloth 1/. The con-
straints to the achievement of the program will be the availability of resources
and the implementing capability of the BTMC.  Given that the BTMC is able to
finance 15% (which is largely dependent upon implementation of GOB's pricing
policy) of the investment program from internally-generated funds, Tk 3.6
billion (US$230.0 million) will have to be provided by financial institutions,
budgetary allocations and the direct inflow of foreign resources. Project
preparation and implementation will also pose obstacles as the management of
BTMC is already strained monitoring the operations of existing units.
IV. PROSPECTS
25.       General.  As the results for FY79 show, the performance of the
textile sector is significantly influenced by GOB's actions, particularly in
the areas of price control and wage rate levels. However, given total imple-
mentation of GOB's recently-formulated pricing policy for the BTMC, it should
be possible for the Corporation to return to profitability in FY80 and to
maintain and improve its performance. The return to profitability should be
aided by the planned increases in productivity and tighter management control.
Aside from the impact of possible GOB intervention, the future profitability
of the BTMC is heavily dependent upon the availability of foreign exchange
to purchase its raw material requirements. (Apart from a minimal amount of
locally-grown cotton, all BTMC's raw material is imported). Steps are being
taken to reduce Bangladesh's dependence upon imports and steady progress is
being made in the construction of a pilot jutton (jute/cotton blend) fibre
plant. Additionally, an ADB-financed study is examining the feasibility of
producing man-made fibres using local and imported naptha.
26.       Local Production of Raw Cotton.  On the basis of projected produc-
tion of yarn and cloth for FY81-FY85, the total requirement of raw materials
by FY85 is estimated at 328.0 million lbs of raw cotton and viscose/synthetics
in the ratio of 80:20. At current purchase prices, this will require about
US$200.0 million per annum by FY85, a considerable burden upon Bangladesh's
already limited foreign exchange resources.  To reduce this burden, GOB/BTMC
and the Cotton Development Board (CDB) are exploring ways of expanding the
current limited production of locally-grown cotton (2.2 million lbs in FY79).
The CDB's development plans for FY80-FY85 call for an increase in acreage
1/ This target has been set on the basis of 12 yds per capita requirement
given a population of 100 million.



_ 99 _
ANNEX VIII
Page 11
under cultivation from 7,000 acres to 100,000 acres by FY85, although GOB's
plans call for the cultivation of 600,000 acres (producing 300.0 million lbs
of cotton) by FY85, an overly-ambitious target, given the lack of planning
and preparation to date. With the future prospects of the textile industry
dependent upon the availability of raw material, a major issue to be resolved
is whether large-scale growing of cotton is technically, financially and
economically viable. To date, this issue has not been addressed by any of
the parties concerned with the future of the cotton textile industry. If
large scale cultivation of cotton is feasible, this could lead to a number
of projects in agriculture, irrigation and seed processing, all aimed at
establishing a coordinated cotton textile industry.



At I Ichlsent 1
- 100 -
PAY.IlAYI.Yi   Silt   IlYll  .F 'IK'i_ A/l V S 
Ii ' , 1 Y'.l
Ac.toe                                                            Tsry.et
1747        FY75         FY76         EY77         FY78        FY79           FY79         FY80         F_I
M-kret Projrcticn
Yarn lbs. (liilion)                    127.1        141.7       155.8        169.6        184.1        193.8         191.1        203.8        224.5
Cloth yds.(hillion)                    508.6        567.1       623.1        678.7        736.4        775.1          764.5       815.2        856.2
Product ion
Yarn lbs. (Million)                     95.5        100.6        91.1         93.5        106.9        110.3         110.0        137.5        168.0
Cloth yds. (Million)         2/         78.6         85.9         75.9        68.6         84.5         88.3         100.0        117.5        135.4
Efficiency Targ.ts: Spinning
Installed capacity ('000)              858.1       889.6        905.5        925.8       976.8        972.2          988.5      1,072.1      1,154.7
Capacity otilisetion (%)                77.0         78.0         73.0        74.0         82.0         82.0           83.0        86.0         90.0
Average per spindle shift (oz)           2.31         Z.31         2.36        2.42         2.38         2.40           2.40         2.51        2.72
Efficiency Targets: zeavin-
Installed capacity (No.)             7,375       7,563        7,636        7,863        7,986       7,494          7,982        7,488        7,758
Capacity utilisation (%)                59.0         63.0        63.0         58.0         67.0         75.0           73.0        85.0         90.0
Average yds. per loon shift             21.4         21.1        18.3         18.9         20.3         19.9           21.4        22.9         24.0
Wastage Percentage-
Yarn (raw materials) (7)                15.7         14.1        12.6         10.6          9.5         9.9             9.0         9.0          9.2
Cloth (yarn)                             4.8          4.1         4.7          4.5          4.1          4.1            5.0          3.0         3.0
Material-J
Require-ent of raw materials:
(Cotton/Staple Fibre for
Million lbs.)                         103.7       105.5        101.9        105.5        108.5       108.7          120.9        137.0        167.0
Cotton Proc-rement Efficiency-5
(Cost to BI7VC/LCA)                    0.7          0.9          1.1          1.0          1.2         1.1            1.1          1.1          1.1
Labr Utilisation
Employees per spinning unit
(running spindles per worker)         16.4         17.2         18.0         21.0        21.5         21.5           21.5         22;3         23.3
Employees per loom                       2.6          2.6          2.5         2.3          2.4         2.2             2.2         2.0          2.0
Finencial Ratios-/
Total Debt/Equity                        2.4          4.2          6.1        10.7         16.1         10.1            3.1         8.1          3.1
Long Term Debt/Equity                   0.4          0.7          1.2          2.3          4.0         3.1            1.2          1.0          1.0
Debt Service Coverage (After Tax)        2.5          2.8          1.3        (1.9)        (1.8)        1.1            1.2          1.7          1.7
Profitability (at current prices
in Tk million)
Sate.                                1,295.0     1,516.0      1,820.0      1,813.0     2,072.0      2,482.0        2,827.0      3,176.0      4,004.0
Cost of Sales:
Raw Material                          706.0       977.0      1,003.0      1,157.0      1,464.0     1,460.0        1,633.0      1,932.0      2,514.0
C onversion Costs                     336.0       451.0        485.0        494.0        711.0       733.0          773.0        841.0        915.0
Depreciation                           29.0        31.0         35.0         36.0        42.0         60.0           81.0         86.0        103.0
Inventory Adjustment                 (23.0)      (162.0)       176.0        135.0       233.0         20.0             -            -
10  1.297.0              1,699.0                        1         8 2.273.0                2,859.0    .859.
Gross Profit/Loss                      247.0       219.0        121.0          9.0         88.0       209.0          340.0        317.0        472.0
Operating Expense                      93.0         78.0        83.0         84.0         86.0        92.0           75.0         98.0        111.0
Operating Profit/Loss                  154.0       141.0         38.0        (93.0)         2.0       117.0          265.0        219.0        361.0
Enterest                              -           25.0         35.0         58.0       139.0        125.0          155.0        171.0       205.0
34W        116.0          3.0       (151.0 )     137.0         8.0           110.0       -             156.0
Other Income                           9.0         9.0         14.0         13.0        60.0         56.0           26.0         30.0         35.0
Net Profit/Loss (Before Tax)-Z         163.0        125.0         17.0      (138.0)       77 4.0 T    - *            136.0         78.0        191.0
Taxation                               118.0        81.0         67.0         31.0         36.0        83.0           75.0         43.0        105.0
Net Profit after Tax                    45.0 4.O0               (50.0)      (169.0)      (113.1)  (3 5.0)             61.0         35.0         86.0
EarningS Ration
Cress  Profit to Sales (7.)             19.1         14.5         6.7          _            4.2         8.4           12.0         10.0         12.0
Operating Profits to lales(. )          11.8          9.3          2.1        (5.1)          -          4.7         ,  9.4          6.7          9.0
Net Profit (BT) to Sales (7)            12.6          8.3         0.9         (7.6)        (3.7)        2.0,           4.8          2.5          4.8
Usit Cost (in Tb)
Y-rn per lb. (average)                  10.9         13.6        16.0         17.3         20.4        20.1           21.4         20.0         20.0
Cloth per yd. (Grey Cloth)               3.6          4.4         5.4          5.8          7.1         7.1            6.9          7.0          7.0
Processed fabrics per yd.                4.5         5.4          6.9          7.3          8.6         9.1            8.4          9.0          9.0
I/ Market projection is based cn
(i) Croweth of population from FY74 at 3% frith sliding ratc of .05% each year up to FY79, 0.1% in FY80 and FY81, 0.2% frm  FY82-FY84.
(ii) Consumption of cloth per head has been satimated #t 9.0 yds. In FY79 And asmued to increase at 0.5 yds. per head per Ann=a in mucceseive years,
reaching 12.3 yards per capita in FY84.
2] 50,750 spindles were put into production during FY78. Tot-l e.pansien in spindlage including these projecte assumed to be 275,000 by FY82. Average
capacity utilisation should gradually increase due to increased Availability of spsres, inplementatisn of BMB And installati.n of n.e pindles.
i/ Wastage should gradually decrease due to a higher ratio miS of rew cotton And staple fibre.
I On the basis of the FY78-FY79 cost per lb. the C & F cost of cotton and staple fibre h;a  been  asaned at 65 cent, and 60 cent, respectively.
2/ Internatfo-sI price is based on Liverpool market. The ratio of BTMC's purchase price to Liverpool price tAs 1:1.1 in FY76 atid 1:1.2 in FY78 and is
expected to continue in future.
/ For  11 see prroJects long tern in-s, financing has been avs.untd at 49% of the totel project cot, with interest computed at 11.5%. For all new
projects equity has been proposed at 51% of the tLtal prniect cost.
72/ Net ptrfit haa been c        Amputnd at 4.86. mtrk op no cost for the years FY7J-FY84.



- 101 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1
BANGLADESH
IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
THE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
.
Background
1.        Since 1977 GOB has made considerable progress in developing the
support structure for its export development program. The Export Promotion
Bureau (EPB) was established in 1963 as a branch of the Pakistan Export Pro-
motion Bureau. The EPB has a head office in Dacca and several branch offices.
In 1977 the Bureau became a semi-autonomous body (under the Export Promotion
Ordinance No. XLVII) and its structure was changed and expanded. Following
the work of the Industrial Sector Mission in 1978, an Export Development
Program was included as part of the focus of the Seventh Import Program Credit
agreement. The EPB not only prepared the Program but has been successful in
establishing the Program as a central framework for the process of developing
exports from Bangladesh. From what was essentially an organizational shell in
1977, the EPB has matured considerably with the assistance provided by IDA's
supervision of the Program. Consideration of an Eighth Imports Credit has
also provided the opportunity to ensure that GOB is encouraged to build on
the progress so far achieved, and to seek solutions to the problems that are
now more apparent.
Status of the Export Development Program
2.        The Development Program covers three basic areas in the export devel-
opment field (institution building, policy and procedures, and product studies).
The current status of each of these areas is noted below.
Institution Building (EPB)
3.        Recruitment and staffing has accelerated and about 17 key vacancies
have been filled during calendar 1979. Two senior (Director-General) positions
remain to be filled.  Apart from these, however, recruitment is now on schedule.
4.        EPB's capability in monitoring and progress control has improved.
Since late 1978 a three-tier system has been operating. This was created by
adding to the Export Coordination Unit a Central Task Force (CTF), and a series
of nine Sectoral Task Forces for product groups, for which the EPB serves as
secretariat. The early experience has been promising and minutes of the CTF
show that this group (Joint Secretaries of Industries, Commerce, Agriculture,
Fisheries, Shipping and Jute, plus the Director General Industries, Chairman,
Bangladesh Shipping Corporation, and senior representatives of Bangladesh



- 102 -                  ANNEX IX
Page 2
Biman, NBR, and Bangladesh Bank), which is chaired by the vice-chairman of EPB
is attacking specific problems of exporters at a detailed level. Problems in
reporting still existing in leather, handicrafts, marine products and agricul-
tural and forestry products. Precision and regularity in reporting is being
upgraded in these weaker areas. A system of progress charting and follow-up
is to be prepared by EPB.
5.        EPB is conducting training at several levels.  The National Export
Training Program for FY80 is more comprehensive than the first program (FY79).
The program includes seminars, workshops and courses on international market-
ing techniques, export products, techniques for training in exports, a program
of cooperation with national training institutes and in-house training for
EPB staff. The program also includes an approach to improving skills in trade
promotion by exposure to foreign markets. No major obstacles were noted in
carrying out the program.
6.        Service activities of the EPB are progressing, although some delays
have been encountered.  The Trade Information Centre will not be fully opera-
tional until the second half of 1979 due to delays in providing the facilities
(office space and other services). However, the system of distributing trade
information has been developed further. An exporter directory for Europe is
under preparation and material is on hand for preparing export guides. A
microfiche reader printer is being installed and ITC statistical systems are
available for when the system is commissioned. Foreign advertising and sales
materials are being compiled as are company and product files of Bangladesh
exporters. Import information (for exporters needing imported inputs) is
being prepared to establish source registers showing reliability, pricing
and standards for suppliers.
Policies and Procedures
7.        A major role for the EPB, and one which it is not yet fully perform-
ing, is to provide a strong lead in reforming and streamlining GOB policies
and procedures on exports. The Development Program includes several items in
this area. In general, EPB is committed to review continuously the policies,
incentives and regulations of GOB and to make suggestions for reform. Its
ability to review and its ability to persuade GOB on changes have increased;
but there is scope for a more aggressive approach, especially given the
attitude of the new Commerce Minister.
8.        Export Performance Licenses (XPL) provide additional import licenses
to exporters on the basis of a four-tiered percentage awarded on the f.o.b.
value of exports. While the scheme is moderately effective, EPB has examined
it and finds weaknesses in its tendency to reward poor performance. In addi-
tion, the scheme does not allow adequately for differential market penetration
costs. EPB proposes to use the output of the Bank-financed DRC study (Boston
University) to rationalize the scheme and revamp the rates so that entitlement
will be a uniform rate applicable to net value added (and net foreign exchange
earned) but giving weight to such factors as labor intensity, new products,



-103-
ANNEX IX
Page 3
and resource-based products. GOB/EPB have agreed to implement improvements
to the XPL system progressively from July 31, 1980.
9.        The system of Customs Duty Drawback for duties paid on imported in-
puts for export products has long been critized. Exporters see the system as
too bureaucratic, too slow, and prone to uneven interpretation. EPB has ini-
tiated a Committee.  (Member NBR Chairman, representative of Customs,
Bangladesh Bank, Chambers of Commerce, exporters, with EPB providing an ex-
officio secretary.) The Committee's brief is to examine forms, verification
methods, recording bank guarantee possibilities and all ways and means of
expediting and simplifying the process. GOB has indicated that the Commit-
tee's review would be completed by July 31 1981.
10.       EPB is also working on a review and rationalization of export pro-
cedures and documentation. An adviser on trade statistics arrived in June and
is working on a system of export statistics (in cooperation with CBS), and a
trade facilitation adviser is being sought (from ITC and UNCTAD). A National
Trade Facilitation Committee is being formed to provide a focus for implement-
ing the reforms proposed by the new advisers.
11.       An approach to improving export financing and export credit insurance,
based on the progress already made by the Bangladesh Bank (see Sector Report)
is planned. EPB is urging a still more liberal approach by the banks to pro-
mote more widespread use of the Export Credit Guarantee Scheme (Sadharan Bima
Corporation); to allow more decision-making at the working level; and to pro-
vide more education to exporters on the use of the facilities. Pioneer status
for certain export industries is also under consideration.
12.       To enable Bangladesh trade officials abroad to function more effec-
tively and to ensure consistency of approach, a manual has been prepared by
EPB. The manual is based on the results of two regional workshops (Geneva
and Bangkok). Reporting and follow-up systems are incorporated for monitoring
the trade promotion effectiveness of trade attaches.
Product Studies
13.       The subsector work of the EPB has been concentrated in marine pro-
ducts, leather, handicrafts, tea and jute carpets. Progress has been solid
in general. A marine products adviser has established a price monitoring
system and, through his work EPB is now issuing weekly Marine Products
Newsletters. The Newsletter supplies weekly, monthly and quarterly data
on the four major products (FWS, SWS, P&D, SPL) covering spot prices, imports
to major buyers, and trends in deliveries and prices for various qualities.
Performance and quality in marine product exports should improve markedly,
since exporters formerly had no information of this kind.



- 104 -
ANNEX IX
Page 4
14.       A committee on the leather industry is currently preparing new
policy guidelines for the industry. These should be announced towards the end
of 1980. The findings are likely to provide the basis for a project aimed at
upgrading the leather industry into more production of crust and finished
leather.
15.       In order to improve supply and organization of marketing in hand-
crafts, EPB took the initiative in forming a Bangladesh Handicrafts Manufac-
turers and Exporters Association ("Banglacraft"). Thus, for the first time
the handicraft sector has taken on the aspect of an industry and has a repre-
sentative association for promotion and development. EPB, while sponsoring
the formulation of Banglacraft, has ensured that it is independent from EPB
itself and self-supporting in all respects. Banglacraft presents project
possibilities, although it is still too new an organization to suggest any
detailed prospects. Clearly, the new association represents a means of
establishing a flow of working capital from the commercial banks, through
Banglacraft, to the individual exporters.
16.       A study of the tea industry has been completed by ITC advisers to
EPB. An overall plan for developing tea exports and obtaining better quality
and prices is being prepared for implementation in the coming year.
17.       A study of the jute carpets market was commissioned from EEC.  How-
ever, EPB has now cancelled their request and agreed that UNDP will finance
an ITC study which started in June 1979 with the report to be presented in
March 1980.
An Export Strategy
18.       The preparation of an export strategy has provided some problems
for the EPB. The work was to be completed in three phases. Consultants
(PA Management Associates) were retained for the first phase. EPB has now
reformulated the project into two phases. The work will be completed by EPB
assisted by the Institute of Business Administration (University of Dacca).
To date a draft Five-Year Master Plan for exports including five-year targets
has been prepare and will be published as part of GOB's Second Five-Year Plan.
Export Processing Zone
19.       Progress on the preparation and establishment of the Export Process-
ing Zone is slow. The work is currently under the supervision of the Depart-
ment of Industries and is not controlled by the EPB. To facilitate the
development of the zone, GOB will prepare by June 30, 1980, a revised feas-
ibility study and detailed implementation program.



- 105 -
ANNEX IX
Page 5
Exports: Achievement FY79
20.       While export earnings in FY79 reached Tk 9.2 billion, exceeding the
FY79 target of Tk 9.0 billion, the volume of exports, particularly of non jute
goods, was considerably below target. Analysis shows that supply constraint,
(jute goods, leather, frozen foods) was a major impediment in export expansion.
A second constraint is the lack of aggressive marketing methods; and, finally,
shipping difficulties, port congestion, and lack of storage space at ports
together with inadequate inland transport facilities have impeded growth.
21.       In general, however, performance was improved and targets appeared
to have been realistic -- if not met precisely, they were met overall. More
important, the EPB is now much better equipped and able to analyze the issues
and to focus attention on the key activities for rectifying problems. In
large part, this is due to the adoption, by EPB, of the Development Program
as a central operational document. Use of the Development Program has
provided the basis for establishing EPB as a relatively dynamic institution
instead of a bureaucratic ornament. The progress achieved so far should be
built upon in a similar manner. Transformation of the bureaucratic approach
in this way may be a key approach in Bangladesh, since abrupt liberalization
and de-control is unlikely to be acceptable (or feasible) given the recent
history of the country.



- 106-                                                      ANNEX X
BANGLADESH
EIY-1i T"',TCTTS PR0G2:,A> CREDIT
1 77  Y 8')
(Tk lNillions)
Actual                       Target
FY77      FY78      FY79          FY79      FY80
A. Primary Products
Raw Jute                  1,765.4  1,454.0  2,160.1          2,280.0  2,450.0
Non Jute Goods                                                                                        a
Tea                         558.7    679.1    620.5            655.0    700.0
Frozen Food                 262.2    291.7    532.0            600.0    800.0
Spi.ces                       19.6      20.6      17.9          30.0      30.0
Fruit and Vegetables           3.4     12.4        5.7          30.0      30.0
Betel Leaves                   3.0       5.8      18.0          10.0      10.0
Raw Cotton                     6.1     18.4       19.0          20.0      20.0
Animal Feed (Oilcake)         25.0      19.9      34.8          25.0      25.0
Other Products                35.1     49.0    105.7           230.0    265.0
913.1  1,_96.9  1,353.6         1,600.0  1,880.0
Total Primary Products  2,678.5  2,550.9  3,513.7            3,880.0  4,330.0
B. Manufactureid Commodities
Jute Goods                2,677.5  3,735.0  4,'50.0         36 00.0  3,900.0
Non Jute Goods
Leather - Tainned           587.2    680.7  1,158.             700.0    750.0
Naph/'Furnacc Oil           221.0    274.9    140.5            190.0    200.0
Newsprint                     22.4     88.2       89.6          85.0    100.0
Paper                         12.0      21.9      10.3          75,0      90.0
Handicrafts                   14.0     26.4      38.9           40.0      70.0
Readymade Garments              -        1.0       1.6          10.0      50.0
Cables                         7.0      2.4      29.6           30.0      30.0
Sugar and Molasss-s           2.1      95.7        -           109.0    130.0
Other Commodities             33.2     59.0      42.5          281.0    350.0
898.9  1,150.2  1,509.4         1,520.0  1,770.0
Total NTonufactured
Commodities             3,576.4  4-,885.2  5,659.4        5,120.0  5,670.0
Total Exports (A & B)   6,254.9  7,436.1  9,173.1            9,000.0 10,000.0
jut2 -on Jute Exports
Ex,prts(Tk Million)
FY       Total         Jute        Others            Jute           Others
73      2,710.9       2,435.9       274.8            90.0            10.0
74      2,974.1       2,603.1       371.0            87.5            12.5
75      3,Ubl.4       2,5z1.5       539.9            82.4            17.6
76      5,5]6.8       4,654.8    1,062.0             80.8            19.2
77      6,234.9       4,451.6    1,0'03.3            71.2            2M.8
78      7,436.1       5,189.0    2,21,7.1            70.1            29.9
79      9,173.1       0,310.0    2,863.0             68.8            31.2
80     10,C00.0       6,3,,O.O    3,650.0            63.5            36.5



ANNEX XI
-107 -
BANGLADESH
SEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF THE SEVEN PREVIOUS IMPORTS CREDITS
(in US$ Million as at 11.28.79)
Category                        Credit    Credit      Credit     Credit      Credit     Credit     Credit    Total
345-BD     458-BD     515-BD     591-BD     676-BD     752-BD      866-BD
Agricultural Equipment          8.4        N.E.       Nil        N.E.        S.E.       N.E.       N.E.        8.4
Fertilizers & Raw Materials                                              t
for Fertilizer Manufacture      5.5        2.2        9.0        4.1         10.0       4.4        3.S       39.6
Components, Chemicals, Raw Materials
Spare parts, Equipment and Packing
Materials for:
Jute Industry                   1.6        3.8        4.9        5.7         7.5        4.9         -        28.4
Textile Industry                9.8       11.4       18.6       50.0        28.5       21.9       21.2      161.4
Paper & Board Industry          0.9        2.9        6.5        0.6         1.2        5.0        2.5       19.6
Food & Allied Products Industry 3.1        2.8        N.E.       N.E.        N.E.       N.E.       N.E.       5.9
Chemical & Pharmaceutical       7.3        9.6        7.3       15.3         5.0        3.9        5.3       53.6
Industry
Sugar Industry                  0.3        1.0        0.9        0.8        NE          NE         NE         3.0
Steel & Foundry Industry        0.5        7.3        9.6        8.7         3.0   .  15.3        16.9       61.3
Selected Export-Oriented        N.E.       N.E.       0.7        0.9         2.0        0.6        0.2        4.4
Industries
Commercial Vehicle Industry     6.3        3.4        2.7        2.7        NE          NE         NE        15.1
Small Scale Industry            1.5        0.4        0.5        N.E.        NE         NE         NE         2.4
Construction Industry           1.3        4.3       14.3       11.2        17.8       10.8        6.4       66.1
Ship-building Industry          3.3        0.9        N.E.       N.E.       NE          NE         NE         4.2
Telecommunications Industry     0.2        N.E.       N.E.       N.E.        NE         NE         NE         0.2
50.0       50.0       75.0        075.0                 66.8       56.0
N.E. - Not Eligible
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division.



