T   CREDIT NUMBER 980 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Eighth Imports Program)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 980 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    A9   rl */     " , 1980, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "taka" means the currency of the Borrower;
(b) "BJMC" means the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation;
and
(c)  "BTMC" means the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall


﻿- 2 -
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Project forms part of the Borrower's program (i) to
make available foreign exchange to eligible importers for the
import, into the Borrower's territory, of industrial components,
chemicals, raw materials and spare parts required by high priority
industries, (ii) to monitor the implementation of the ongoing
action programs for the jute, textile and pulp and paper indus-
tries, and '(iii) to continue and consolidate ongoing export
development programs.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1982,
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1990, and ending January 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The authorized representatives of the Bangla-
desh Bank are designated as representatives of the Borrower for


﻿- 3 -
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under th, provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b)       The Borrower shall:
(i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from the eligible importers issue, or cause to be
issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out the Project;
(ii) make available, or cause to be made available
to the eligible importers promptly as needed,
such amounts of foreign exchange as shall be
required to import goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
(iii) take all su,,h action as shall be necessary to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or
cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance thereof,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable Li a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progtess of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;


﻿-4-
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the program (referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement) of which the Project is a
part, the cost of the Project and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, the benefits derived and to be derived
therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall deposit amounts in
takas equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, in an account
currently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts
are to be described in accordance with standard practice, as
the proceeds from "IDA Credit No.         BD".
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's development
programs.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 of each
calendar year, inform the Association of the local currency
provisions made in the Borrower's Annual Development Program
for the fiscal year which began on the preceding July 1, for
the development projects being financed by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall inform the Association on a quarterly
basis of the amounts of takas actually released for the projects
being financed by the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the


﻿-5-
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall undertake capital restruc-
turing for each unit of BJMC and BTMC, which shall be carried out
in annual phases to be completed by December 31, 1983, in the case
of BJMC and December 31, 1984 in the case of BTMC, all as more
fully set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall by September 30, 1980
or such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, take such actions as to provide that BTMC's after
tax return on shareholders' equity is at least 10%.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall complete the review of its
procedures for collection and presentation of export statistics
by July 31, 1980, and shall thereupon implement progressively a
program to improve such procedures.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall complete the review of
procedures for awarding export- performance licenses by July 31,
1980 and shall thereupon commence implementation of improvements
in the said procedures.
(b) The Borrower shall complete the review of the duty
drawback procedures by July 31, 1981 and shall thereupon commence
implementation of a program to improve the said procedures.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall by July 1, 1980, publish
its Export Strategy which would cover targets, policies, and
comprehensive plans for export promotion and development as a part
of the Borrower's Second Five-Year Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has issued import licenses
in respect of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less
than $25,000,000 equivalent.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. The date      Y(      9 F      is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BA-HISAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their represeLltatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By I        IV, 2
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goods
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the maximum amount of the Credit which may be withdrawn in respect
of each such Category:
Maximum Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                 Dollar Equivalent)
INDUSTRY: Raw materials, spare parts,
chemicals, components and
packaging materials for:
(1) Textile industry                             25,000,000
(2) Paper and board industry                      5,000,000
(3) Fertilizer (excluding                        10,000,000
finished fertilizer)
(4) Export-oriented industries                   10,000,000
(excluding jute)
(5) Steel and foundry industry                   15,000,000
(6) Chemicals and pharmaceutical                 10,000,000
industry (excluding proprietary
items)
(7) Sugar                                         3,000,000
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
(8) Cement and raw materials for                 25,000,000
cement manufacture including
packaging materials, spare parts
and other intermediate building
materials


﻿2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower rr for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1980;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(d) expenditures under Categories (5) to (8) inclusive
in excess of the aggregate equivalent of $25,000,000.
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   Genera] Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts for goods
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more shall be let, at the
Borrower's option, either through international shopping, on the
basis of not less than three offers invited from major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland, or through
international competitive bidding, under procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines). The award of any con-
tract shall be made to the supplier whose offer is the lowest
evaluated offer. However, whenever the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall be satisfied that goods of a specific type, design or
manufacture shall be required in the interest of equipment stan-
dardization or of other valid considerations relating to the
efficient utilization of existing productive capacity, such goods
may be procured on a negotiated basis on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent may
be procured through normal commercial channels.
3.   Contracts for steel and cement shall be let on the basis of
international competitive bidding, under procedures consistent
with those set forth in the Guidelines.
4.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
zeasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract, (a) two conformed copies of such contract, (b) the
details of the offers sought, the names and addresses of the firms
invited to submit offers and a summary of the offers submitted for
goods subject to international shopping, (c) the bidding documents
as well as a report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received for goods subject to international competitive bidding,
and (d) such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. In the event the lowest offer or bid is not accep-
ted, the Borrower shall also furnish to the Association the
reasons for the award of the centract to the successful supplier.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of such
contract was not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule
or the Guidelines, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Capital Restructuring of BJMC and BTMC
The restructuring will provide as necessary, inter alia,
for:
1.   The provision of equity funds by the Borrower to enable units
to achieve a debt/equity ratio of 60:40.
2.   The cohversion into equity of all loans, including arrears
of interest accrued thereon, from the Borrower to BJMC/BTMC.
3.   The provision of cash infusions by the Borrower to enable
BJMC/BTMC and their units to meet the debt servicing requirements
of long-term debts to BSB, BSRS and the commercial banking system.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


