Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11757
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
YUGOSLAVIA
FERTILIZER SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2410-YU)
MARCH 30, 1993
Agriculture & Water Supply Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluaton
March 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Note on Yugoslavia
Fertilizer Sector Loan (Ln. 2410-YU)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Note on Yugoslavia
Fertilizer Sector Loan (Ln. 2410-YU)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office.
The loan was approved by the Board in 1984 and again (in revised form) in 1985. It
was never signed, and the Bank withdrew its offer in 1986. The attached Project Completion Note
is provided in lieu of a PCR. The Note is candid and explains why the project miscarried.
The project aimed o increase fertilizer production and improve its distribution. It
would have financed mainly impc.rt of fertilizer feed-stocks. Following protracted discussions,
Government reluctantly agreed that most of the resulting incremental fertilizer production would be
offered in sale to independent fanners rather than reserved for the socialist sector (the collective-
farms). However, this very agreement greatly reduced the Government's zeal for finding solutions
to the other basic loan issues. After the second Board approval, it proved unwilling to implement
procedures that would have assured adequate foreign exchange to meet the future import needs of
the fertilizer industry.
The project was sound. The potential payoff in improved resource allocation and
increased agricultural production was impressive.
The project is not r ited and will not be audited.
c:~~~~.
Attachment
This document has a restricted dis-ribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their otflcial duties. Its contents m .y not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
YUGOSLAVIA
Fertilizer Sector Loan
(Loan 2410-YU)
1.           The loan was approved by the Board on May 8, 1984 but remained unsigned. The
offer of the Bank loan was withdrawn on July 31, 1986.
Loan Summary
2.           In response to Government's request for assistance to the fertilizer subsector, the
Bank assessed the situation in 1983 and agreed that there was a need for the development of a
comprehensive integrated program to revitalize the subsector. It was determined that the need to
increase domestic fertilizer availability immediately was critical for the revival of agricultural
production. Limited fertilizer application by farmers was determined to be largely due to insufficient
availability of fertilizer rather than lack of demand for it.
3.           The project was appraised in May 1983, but because of protracted policy discussions,
negotiations did not occur until March 1984. The main disagreement was over the Bank's analysis
and recommendation to channel a large proportion of the incremental fertilizer production to
individual farmers not contractually associated with the social sector. The government claimed that
the Bank's position was based on data "not supplied by the federal authorities". Government made
clear the fact that the Bank's proposals were in opposition to the stated policy of socializing
agricultural production. A compromise position was reached that specified that the fertilizer would
be sold, on a cash basis, through retail shops of trading agencies and that the purchaser would not
have an obligation to enter into any marketing or production contracts with the social sector.
4.           The objective of the loan was to increase the domestic availability of finished fertilizer
for 1984 and 1985, mainly for wheat and maize production. It addressed policy and institutional issues
concerning the distribution of fertilizer and the government's efforts to modernize and rehabilitate
the industry, thereby enhancing the government's ongoing fertilizer production/consumption program.
The loan was designed to:
(a)   finance subloans to fertilizer producers for the import of raw materials and spare parts
(including corrosion resistant materials and catalysts for ammonia production) for
fertilizer production facilities; and
(b)   finance subloans to fertilizer producers for technical and energy studies of all fertilizer
plants in order to assess their production and energy efficiency and make proposals
for improvement.
5.           Policy conditionalities included: (a) an agreement on fertilizer consumption targets for
1984-1989 and that fertilizer would not be exported until the fertilizer requirements of the domestic
market were met; (b) an agreement that the fertilizer pricing system for the domestic market would
be free of subsidy; (c) assurances that the borrower, Vojvodjanska Banka (VB) would continue to
have access to foreign exchange through the agrokombinats so that it could relend funds from the






- 2 -
recovery of short term working capital loans to the fertilizer producers back to the fertilizer industry
in foreign exchange until 1989; and (d) an assurance that approximately 80% of the incremental
fertilizer be available to individual farmers on a cash basis through retail shops and trading agencies.
The loan was tranched, and a second tranche would only be released after a satisfactory review of
the implementation of the loan during the first year.
6.           The project was approved by the Board of Directors on May 8, 1984 but loan signing
was delayed during that year due to VB's desire to have, in addition to the federal loan guarantee,
a guarantee from each subborrower assuring timely servicing of the foreign loan and the availability
of local financing. There was also a reluctance on the part of the agrokombinats to turn over foreign
exchange earnings to the borrower, a clause of the self-management agreement between the
agrokombinats, the fertilizer producers and VB, the conclusion of which was a condition of
effectiveness. The problem was discussed during the annual meetings in October of 1984. Signals
in November 1984 indicated that the borrower may have wished to back out of the loan, but was
looking for a way to compel the Bank to cancel the loan to avoid the embarrassment of doing it
themselves. However, the position of the Bank remained that the project, with its emphasis on
support for private sector agriculture, was a necessary ingredient in the revival of the agriculture
sector and further solutions to the problem of foreign exchange debt repayment and a mechanism
for recycling the foreign funds annually (to ensure incremental fertilizer production until 1990) were
sought. Agreement was finally reached in June 1985 to enable the producers to convert the subloans
from short term to medium term credits repaid in dollars (effectively eliminating the recycling
requirement), and that the federal government would provide, on an annual basis, the required
foreign exchange to the producers to ensure production targets were met. These and other minor
changes to the loan agreement were submitted for the Board's approval on a no objection basis in
September 1985.
7.           Once again, obstacles emerged when it came to loan signature. The fertilizer
producers were now showing reluctance to bear the foreign exchange risk for the subloans. New
foreign exchange laws which became effective in January 1986 generated new proposals from the
borrower and more delays ensued. In the meantime, a new fertilizer subsidy was introduced at the
federal level which contradicted the project agreement. Large amounts of fertilizer were being
exported by the fertilizer producers in order to meet their raw material import needs and domestic
consumption of fertilizer, especially by the private sector, continued to decline. After substantial
efforts on the part of the Bank, no feasible solutions were found and the offer of the loan was
withdrawn as of July 31, 1986.
8.           Despite monumental efforts at many levels, the disagreements on policy issues
between the Bank and the government prevented this loan from being signed. Similar problems were
experienced in other sectors and operations, including the protracted dialogue on structural
adjustment which was ongoing during this period.
9.           The Bank was absolutely correct to withdraw support for the loan given the
disagreement on basic policy issues connected with the project. The project would have certainly
failed in its objectives. To proceed would have been a costly blunder.






-3 -
Attachment 1
Basic Information
Project:              Fertilizer Sector Loan
Loan Amount:          US$90 million, including capitalizing front-end fee
Terms:                15 years, including a three-year grace period, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Borrower:             Vojvodjanska Banka Udruzena Bank (VB) in Novi Sad,
Socialist Autonomous Province of Vojovdina.
Implementing
Agencies:             Agrohemija and participating Trading Agencies
Guarantor:            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiaries:        Social Sector, Cooperatives and individual farmers.
Onlending Terms:      (as negotiated) Subloans to fertilizer producers would be made in foreign
exchange but repayment to VB would be made in Dinars using the
exchange rate prevailing at the time of repayment. Thus the foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the subborrowers. The duration of the
subloans would not exceed 12 months for raw materials, four years with
one year grace period for technical studies at the same rate as that
charged by the Bank plus at least 1% spread. VB would recycle the
foreign exchange to the fertilizer industry for a fixed period.
(as amended) Subloan repayment would be within five years, with two
years grace. Repayment would be in dollars. Foreign exchange risk would
be borne by the subborrowers.
Time taken to
prepare project:      7 months
Project Appraisal:    May 1983
Completion of
Negotiations:         March 20, 1984
Board Presentation:   May 8, 1984
Revised project
presented to Board
(no objection basis):    Scptembcr 25, 1985



