Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IZLE CO'PY
Report No. P-37713-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FERTILIZER SECTOR LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USW9O MILLION
TO
VOJVODJANSKA BANKA-UDRUZENA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
April 13, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit 1/     Calendar 1983 2/      March 1, 1984
US$1                   Dinar 93.831         Dinar 130.0
Dinar 1               US$0.011              US$0.0077
Dinar 1,000,000       US$11,000.00          US$7,700.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL     = Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CAN      = Calcium Ammonium Nitrate
CMEA     = Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DAP      = Diammonium Phosphate
ICB      = International Competitve Bidding
INA      = INA Petrochemija, Kutina
LDR      = Less Developed Republic
MAP      = Monoammonium Pbosphate
MDR      = More Developed Republic
NPK      = Nitrogen-Phosphate-Potash
P205     = Phosphorous Pentoxide Content in Fertilizer
SAP      = Special Action Program
SDK      = Social Accounting Service
TPY      = Tons Per Year
VB       = Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena Banka
1/ The dinar has not been maintained within announced margins since July 12,
1973. Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure maintenance of external
competitiveness.
2/ Period average.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
FERTILIZER SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena Banka (VB) in Novi Sad,
Socialist Autonomous Province of Vojvodina.
Guarantor:          The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:             US$90 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:              Amortization in 15 years, including a three year grace
period, at the standard variable interest rate.
Loan Objectives
and Description: The proposed loan would be made under the Special Action
Program for Yugoslavia and would assist the Federal
Government in increasing the domestic availability of
finished fertilizer for 1984 and 1985. It would also
address policy and institutional issues concerning
distribution of fertilizer and the Government's efforts
to modernize and rehabilitate the industry, thereby
enhancing the Government's on-going Fertilizer
Production-Consumption program. The loan would
(a) finance sub-loans to fertilizer producers for the
(i) import of raw materials, such as phosphate rock,
mono-ammonium phosphate, ammonia, ammonia solution and
diammonium phosphate; and (ii) import of spare parts for
fertilizer production facilities, such as corrosion
resistant materials, stainless steel piping and catalysts
for ammonia production; and (b) finance sub-loans to
fertilizer producers for technical and energy studies of
all the fertilizer plants, with the assistance of
consultants, in order to assess their production and
energy efficiency and to make proposals for improvements.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Foreign Exchange Costs:
US$ Million
Raw Material               57.20
Spare Parts                21.00
Study                        1.72
TOTAL BASE COST         79.92
Price Contingency            9.86
TOTAL                   89.78
Front-End Fee                0.22
TOTAL                       90.00
Estimated Disbursements:
FY85   FY86
(US Millions)
Bank FY
Annual                   50.0   40.0
Cumulative               50.0   90.0
Benefits and Risks: Through the appropriate application of fertilizer, the
loan will generate additional grain production of about
1.3 million tons (80% wheat and 20% maize), thus helping
to reduce grain imports, especially wheat, which has,
over the past three years, averaged about 0.8 million
tons annually.  In foreign exchange resources, the
additional production of wheat and maize would represent
about US$208.0 million equivalent. The major
beneficiaries of the loan would be individual farmers
wishing to purchase fertilizer on a cash basis and the
fertilizer producers. There are several areas of risk
in the loan. To reduce the risk, after the loan is
disbursed, that the systems for foreign exchange
availability to the fertilizer industry and fertilizer
distribution do not revert back to the existing systems,
the Government has (a) agreed to a mechanism which in
the future will ensure access by fertilizer producers to
foreign exchange, and (b) provided an understanding that
future fertilizer distribution will be made on the basis
of soil fertility and crop response. There is also a
possibility that individual farmers may not purchase
fertilizer on a cash basis to the extent anticipated,
although this risk is slight in that the limited
fertilizer application by such farmers in the past



- iii -
has largely been due to insufficient availability of
fertilizer, rather than lack of demand for it. There is
also the risk that the Government might decide not to
proceed with the recommendations of the technical and
energy studies, although this is remote given its stated
commitment to rationalization of fertilizer production
and its decision to borrow for the studies.
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: YUGOSLAVIA: Fertilizer Sector Loan (Report
No. 4649-YU), dated March 29, 1984.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FERTILIZER SECTOR LOAN
TO VOJVODJANSKA BANKA-UDRUZENA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed loan
to Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena Banka, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of US$90 million to
finance the import of raw materials and spare parts for fertilizer
production, and the cost of energy audits and production studies in the
fertilizer industry. The proposed loan would be made under the Special
Action Program (SAP) for Yugoslavia and is designed to support sector policy
adjustments and lead to more efficient use of existing fertilizer capacity.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, with
interest at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1981 and its report,
Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (3954-YU), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 2, 1982. Updating
missions visited Yugoslavia during the last six months and this section
reflects their findings. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions, plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. Responsibility for
important social and economic decisions has increasingly shifted from the
federal level to the republics, autonomous provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives over production decisions
has been increased by a restructuring of all economic organizations into
legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are
the smallest units producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended to
encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments, called social
compacts and self-management agreements, enables the participation of all
economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy, while maintaining
decentralized responsibility for policy implementation. These instruments
are used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal policy measures,
particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.



- 2 -
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish, through a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major medium-term goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including government
bodies. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at the relevant level
are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
5.5% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high throughout
the period, above 30% in most years. With population growth at about 1% per
annum, real per capita income more than doubled over this period. Per capita
GNP in 1982 is estimated to be US$2,840 at 1982 market prices. 1/ The past
three decades have also witnessed the growing integration of Yugoslavia into
the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981 merchandise exports and imports
grew by around 6% and 8% per annum in real terms, respectively. However,
Yugoslavia's export performance to the industrial market economies showed
increasing weakness during the 1970s, particularly after 1973.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large regional
disparities persist.  The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and
Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per capita output,
and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are officially
designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference in per capita
output between the most developed region in the country, Slovenia, and the
least developed, Kosovo, is 6 to 1. These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in the
LDR, their higher dependency ratios and their higher population growth rates,
which averaged 1.2% annually during 1971-81. Since 1965 concessional
investment credits have been granted to the LDR through the Federal Fund for
the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions and, together with
supplementary resources for social sector expenditures from the Federal
budget, these resources account for about 10% of the social product of the
LDR.
8.       Since 1954, employment in the social sector has increased by around
4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural sector.
Despite this very good record, substantial productivity and income
differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the traditional
(predominantly private) agricultural sectors. These differentials have
resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on the part of the rural
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



-3-
labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought temporary employment
abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973 there were about 1.1
million external migrants. Since 1973, however, this trend has been
reversed, and returning migrants have added to the pressure on the social
sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates have risen rapidly from
about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in 1982. 1/ The incidence of unemployment is
highly regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged from 29% in Kosovo to
2% in Slovenia.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult economic
situation since the upheavals which accompanied economic liberalization in
1965. In many respects the difficulties facing Yugoslavia are similar to
those facing most middle income developing countries: higher oil prices and
interest rates, sluggish world trade and more difficult access to
international commercial bank credit. The severity of Yugoslavia's economic
problems, however, also reflects structural deficiencies in the pattern of
Yugoslav development which became increasingly apparent in the seventies. In
response, the Government since 1980 has concentrated on stabilizing the
economy and bringing the balance of payments under control. The main
elements of the stabilization program introduced thus far have been
restrictive monetary and fiscal policies designed to curb investment and to
reduce inflationary pressure, and the more active use of exchange rate
policies to encourage exports. Increased reliance has also been placed on
more frequent interest rate adjustments and the Government has introduced
minimum or floor lending rates for banking system credits in most sectors,
with these rates being adjusted progressively to equal the rate of inflation
over a specified time horizon, which will differ by sector. At the same
time, imports have been scaled back in line with the revenues accruing from
export earnings and more limited foreign borrowing. Yugoslavia's
stabilization efforts have been supported by the IMF in the form of a
three-year SDR 1,662 million stand-by arrangement which was in effect from
January 1981 to January 1984. Agreements have also been reached for a
one-year stand-by of SDR370 million, which is expected to be considered by
the IMF's Executive Directors in late April.
10.       As a result of its stabilization efforts, Yugoslavia has succeeded
in bringing the current account of its balance of payments from a deficit of
$3.7 billion in 1979 to an e'stimated surplus of $274 million in 1983. Over
the same period, the current account with the convertible area has moved from
a deficit of $3.3 billion to an estimated surplus of $300 million. Export
trends have been erratic over the period, both in the aggregrate and as
between market areas, with, however, a strong showing in exports to the
convertible area in 1983. Apart from strict demand management policies, this
performance reflects a substantial realignment of the real exchange rate in
1/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to the total resident labor force was about 9% in
1982.



4 -
1983, with a depreciation of approximately 25% against a basket of currencies
over the course of the year. Import levels have been cut in each year since
1979, such that the nominal value of imports in 1983 was 13% below its 1979
level, representing a real cut of approximately 31% over the period.
11.       Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly since 1979, when
GDP grew by 4.2%. In 1980 it grew by 2.3%, in 1981 by 1.4%, and in 1982 by
0.8%. Current estimates are that GDP declined by about 1.3% in 1983. This
reduction in growth is partly a result of the controls on domestic demand,
but also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and manufacturing
output has been particularly affected. There have been marked fluctuations
in agricultural output. After stagnating in 1980 agricultural value added
increased by 2.8% in 1981 and an estimated 7.4% in 1982. Fixed investment
has also fallen markedly. Whereas fixed investment increased at an average
rate of 9.5% between 1975 and 1979, it declined by more than 6.0% per year
between 1979 and 1982. Despite these slowdowns in investment and economic
growth, Yugoslavia has been able to continue creating jobs in the social
sector. Social sector employment increased by 3.2% in 1980, 2.9% in 1981 and
2.3% in 1982. Generally speaking, employment growth has continued to be most
rapid in the LDR, where the incidence of unemployment is more severe.
12.       One of the major goals of the government's stabilization program
has been to reduce the rate of inflation. Despite significant declines in
investment and real domestic demand, however, inflationary pressures have
continued. In 1980 and 1981 inflation accelerated to 30% and 38%
respectively. In an effort to bring inflation under control, the authorities
introduced temporary price ceilings on a wide range of goods in July 1982.
This policy met with only limited success, however. Retail prices increased
by 30% in 1982, and by about 58% in 1983. As a result, a temporary price
freeze was reimposed at the end of 1983. The persistence of inflation has
been due to a combination of factors. The efforts of the authorities to
restructure the pattern of relative prices to promote more efficient resource
allocation, stimulate agricultural production and rationalize energy use have
all put upward pressure on the price level. The increase in international
prices since 1979 and the cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation
of the dinar have also considerably increased domestic production costs.
Nominal personal income growth has also proved difficult to control, although
there have been significant reductions in real personal incomes (totalling
25%) since 1979.
13.       Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been complicated by adverse
developments in the international capital markets. Increases in prevailing
interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from $0.8 billion in
1979 to an estimated $2.2 billion in 1983. Principal repayments on
medium- and long-term debt were an estimated $2.7 billion in 1983. While
there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts, the
international commercial banks have tended to adopt a cautious position
toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due to adverse
developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity problems
experienced by some Yugoslav banks. However, following the successful
conclusion of the 1983 and 1984 debt restructuring (para. 17), the



international commercial banks are expected to slowly return to limited
financial transactions with Yugoslavia, some of which may be in the form of
co-financing with the Bank.
Medium-Term Prospects
14.       In the second half of 1981, a special high level "Stabilization
Commission" was established to devise a framework of policy and institutions
to guide Yugoslavia's medium-term adjustment efforts. The final report of
the commission was issued in July 1983 and has been adopted by the Federal
Assembly. The commission's recommendations call for a decisive shift toward
a more open economy, export-led growth and increased resources to the export
sector through reductions in domestic demand and active exchange rate
policies; they also aim at a moderation in domestic inflation. The period
until 1985 is seen as a transitional phase, oriented to completing the most
critical of the ongoing investments and to abandoning those which are no
longer viable, with the aim of creating the basis for a different investment
cycle in the 1986-90 period. Even over the longer term the orientation is
toward increases in the productivity of factors of production and lower
investment and output growth than in the past, with a more sparing use of
external capital.
15.       Since slower growth will make it more difficult for the social
sector to generate additional employment, emphasis is on the development of
labor intensive activities, including small-scale enterprises and the
increased use of shift work. Finally, the reduction of regional disparities
remains a major objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial
transfers between regions will play an important role in this process, with
stress on encouraging social sector enterprises in the more developed regions
(MDR) to make direct investments in the LDR. The initial experience with
such joint ventures is encouraging and a number of such projects have been
launched. They could make a significant contribution to the overall
efficiency of production within the LDR by facilitating the transfer of
technological and managerial know-how within Yugoslavia.
Creditworthiness
16.       Traditionally, about three-quarters of the debt contracted by
Yugoslavia was provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this was in the form of suppliers' credits, although
financial credits from commercial banks were also of importance.  In response
both to unsettled conditions in international capital markets and to the
balance of payments difficulties faced by Yugoslavia, there was a significant
decline in commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia after 1980, and gross
medium- and long-term capital inflows declined sharply from $4.6 billion in
1980 to $2.3 billion in 1982. Total medium and long-term debt, outstanding
and disbursed, is estimated at $16.1 billion at the end of 1982, virtually
unchanged from 1981, while short-term debt at end-1982 stood at about $1.7
billion. During 1982, there was a substantial decline in foreign exchange
reserves, which at the end of the year amounted to $1.7 billion, or roughly



- 6 -
one month of imports of goods and services. Taking account of gross workers'
remittances, the debt-service ratio averaged 16% between 1976 and 1981, while
the debt-service ratio in convertible currencies averaged 19% over the same
period. In 1982 the estimated aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 22%,
reflecting the increase in interest payments on floating rate debt, and the
decline in exports. Similarly, the debt service ratio on convertible
currency debt rose to 28% in the same year.
17.       In light of the inadequate reserves position, the thin pipeline of
financial credits, the depleted stocks of imports, the liquidity problems
encountered by some Yugoslav banks in 1982 and the consequent unwillingness
of commercial lenders to maintain their exposure, a major multipartite
financing effort involving certain OECD countries, international commercial
banks, the IMF and the BIS was carried out in 1983 to assist Yugoslavia in
maintaining orderly debt repayment and to improve its foreign exchange
reserve position. Agreements were reached on a foreign assistance package
amounting to about $4 billion in gross medium- and long-term commitments and
in the deferment of payment on short- and medium-term principal debt coming
due in 1983. Agreements in principle have also been reached between the
Yugoslav Government and OECD creditor countries and international commercial
banks for a restructuring of medium-term principal debt falling due in 1984.
The agreements will be formalized following the approval of the 1984 stand-by
agreement with the IMF. While Yugoslavia's liquidity situation may remain
difficult in the near-term, both the aggregate and the convertible currency
debt service ratios should decline somewhat over the next few years. Given
its past debt servicing record, pragmatism, and demonstrated capacity to
implement firm stabilization policies when these are called for, and the
commitment of the Government to continue doing so in the future, Yugoslavia
remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
18.       The proposed loan would be the 84th made to Yugoslavia by the Bank
totalling about $4137.61 million, net of cancellations. 1/ Approximately 32%
($1324.04 million) of the total has been for 24 loans in-the transportation
sector - 12 for highways, 8 for railways, 2 for ports, and one each for a
natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline. In addition to the transportation
loans, there have been seven for power, six for water supply and sewerage,
three multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation
components), and one for telecommunications. In recent years, Bank lending
has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector for which 17
1/ The 82nd and 83rd loans to Yugoslavia (Loans 2339-YU and 2340-YU),
totalling $7O.O million for the Seventh Industrial Credit Project, were
approved by the Executive Directors on July 26, 1983.



-7-
loans, totalling about $1034.40 million (25% of the total), have been made to
help increase productivity and production. 1/ Twenty-one loans, amounting to
about $535.72 million (about 13% of the total) have also been made for
industry with the aim of augmenting overall value added and opportunities for
employment. Two loans were made for tourism and the first Bank loan for air
pollution control was approved in 1976. A first SAL of $275 million was made
to Yugoslavia in June 1983.
19.       Due to the shortage of local funds arising from financial con-
straints, Yugoslavia's disbursement performance deteriorated somewhat in
1981. Following a subsequent implementation review of the whole loan port-
folio with Borrowers, project execution accelerated. Yugoslavia's performance
now compares favorably with Bank-wide averages. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
20.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its lending to Yugoslavia are to: (i) expand exports and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) enhance the efficiency of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited invest-
ment resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and
(iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDR. Not every Bank operation
can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the LDR,
but a basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues to be
toward their development. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system
(paras. 3-5), however, the process of evolving acceptable solutions to policy
problems is cumbersome. As a result, the Bank has been concentrating its
lending operations in areas where its institutional and policy coordination
impact is expected to be greater. Accordingly, a shift to more program,
sector, and SAP operations as with the FY83 SAL (Loan 2326-YU), has taken
place to help consolidate and strengthen policy and institutional changes
critical to Yugoslavia's long-term structural development, while at the same
time assisting the Government to overcome its immediate foreign exchange
needs. In addition to the SAL, SAP lending to Yugoslavia to date includes a
supplemental loan for the Middle Neretva Project (Loan 1561-1-YU) and revised
disbursement percentages for the Tenth and Eleventh Highway Projects (Loans
1678-YU and 1819-YU, respectively), and for the Montenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation-Port of Bar Project (Loan 1768-YU).
21.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has helped
attract additional sources of credit through co-financing arrangements and
the establishment of new banking relationships. The Bank intends to continue
emphasizing co-financing, recognizing, however, the commercial market con-
straints that Yugoslavia is facing. Until then, the Bank is likely to remain
the principal source of long-term external capital.
1/ Project Completion Reports (PCR) have been prepared for the First
Agricultural Credit Project (1129-YU) and for the Agricultural Industries
Project (894-YU).



- 8 -
22.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1982 amounted to about 10.5% of
its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to remain
fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service
was 6.6% in 1982 and is projected to be about 10% by 1986.
23.       IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then, IFC
has made 19 investments in the country and, as of September 30, 1983, IFC's
portfolio amounted to $358.2 million gross and $172.2 million net of partici-
pation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia are to:
(a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources development;
(b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (c) foster techno-
logical transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial resources in addition to
IFC's own funds.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Role and Performance
24.       Agricultural performance during the five-year plan periods between
1961 and 1980 failed to achieve targeted levels, averaging 53% of estimated
growth and never exceeding 80% in any five-year period. 1/ As a result,
demand for food products has outstripped local production and increasingly,
food has had to be imported, particularly wheat, oil crops, protein nutrients,
etc., creating additional demands on the country's scarce foreign exchange
resources. From 0.6 million tons in 1977, cereal imports increased to about
1.4 million tons in 1980 with wheat and animal feed accounting for about
90%. Agricultural exports declined, with their share in total export earn-
ings dropping from 13% in 1976 to 11% in 1981. During the 1976-80 Plan
period, agriculture grew by only 2% per annum with crop production only 0.4%
against planned growth of about 5% per annum.
25.       For the Plan period 1981-85, the prospects for achieving projected
growth estimates in agriculture appeared no better. The original plan pro-
jected agricultural growth at 4.5% per annum, with the social sector growing
at 6% and the individual sector at 4%. Agricultural exports were projected
to grow at 10% per annum with imports to decline at 5%. Despite some respite
in 1982, with production increasing 5% over the preceding year, exports have
shown no improvements and for 1983 the country has already announced agricul-
tural imports of 1.4 million tons. The shortage of fertilizer has had an
adverse affect on agricultural production. As a result, agricultural growth
rates are being revised downwards and will benceforth be prepared on an
annual-plan basis.
1/ The principal lessons from the PCRs referred to in the footnote on page 7
are that greater attention must be focused on (a) enhancing social sector
enterprise efficiency, and (b) on improving the productive capacity of
individual farmers, where the greatest production potential lies.



- 9 -
26.       In addition to social sector inefficiencies which the Government
plans to address in the context of its Stabilization Program, one of the
major impediments to a rapid increase in agricultural production has stemmed
from the Government's long-term policy to associate individual farmers into
the cooperative system in order to organize agricultural production more
efficiently. Such integration has not progressed as quickly as planned.
Accordingly, at the end of 1982, the social sector held about 19% of
Yugoslavia's arable land, the cooperative farmers only about 36%, and the
non-contracting individual farmers about 45%, with large regional variations.
In the Republic of Slovenia, for example, the non-contracting individual
farmers held only 9.7% of arable land while in the Province of Kosovo they
held about 78.0%. Nationally, the estimate is that about 1.2 million of 2.6
million farm families are not contractually associated. In the Stabilization
Report, approved by Government authorities in July, 1983, it is recognized
that the process of association has stagnated primarily as a result of in-
appropriate incentives and inept cooperative management. Traditional
suspicions towards the social sector in parts of rural Yugoslavia are diffi-
cult to break down and it can require years before the perceived benefits of
association are accepted.
27.       Specific measures to rectify these deficiencies in the longer-term
will be adopted in the context of the Stabilization Report recommendations.
Since the nature of the association process will take time however, the
Government recognizes the need to realize the agricultural potential of
Yugoslavia's non-contracting individual farmers if in the short-term it
intends to meet its agricultural production targets and improve the country's
trade balance. The disproportion in the allocation of farm inputs between
the social, cooperative and non-contracting individual farming sectors is a
first area the Government intends to address, particularly as it relates to
the allocation of inorganic fertilizers.
Fertilizer Production and Consumption
28.       The current 1981-85 Fertilizer Production Plan, in its first two
years, failed to achieve its planned targets, mainly due to foreign exchange
constraints in importing raw materials for fertilizer production. In 1983,
only 2.6 million tons were produced, which was the same level as in 1982,
against a target of 3.1 million tons. During 1977-81, domestic consumption
recorded an annual increase of about 3% per year. While overall fertilizer
consumption in the social and cooperative sectors increased, the quantities
available for the non-contracting individual farmers declined from 243,000
tons in 1977 to 93,000 tons in 1981. In 1982, only about 50,000 tons of
fertilizer were made available to them. As for the social sector, it is
generally agreed in Yugoslavia that fertilizer application/ha is adequate and
additional application of fertilizer would not result in any significant
increase in production of grain. On the other hand, while the cooperative
sector consumes about 60% of the total fertilizer available for the domestic
market, its application rates are below the social sector. This is also
reflected in present yields. Additional fertilizer for this group would
provide some increase in yields. The largest potential increase from



- 10 -
additional fertilizer application, however, would be from the non-contracting
individual farmers. Thus, the critical impact of increased fertilizer use by
these farmers requires special recognition at the policy level during the
present period of economic stabilization since this represents a low-cost,
quick-yielding means of increasing output--a major objective of the Stabili-
zation Program.
29.       Government officials indicated, however, that, due to the shortage
of fertilizer in the country, it suspended in 1983 the past practice of pro-
viding residual fertilizer to non-contracting individual farmers through the
retail shops of trading agencies; the bulk of the fertilizer is being made
available only to the social and cooperative sectors including associated
farmers.  Failure to provide fertilizer to non-contracting farmers however
has had, and would, if continued, have serious implications on grain produc-
tion and, in turn, on the Stabilization Program.
Fertilizer Distribution
30.       Fertilizer is sold by the producing plants at a fixed price, to
agrokombinats, which usually have some financial interest in these plants.
The agrokombinats act as wholesalers for a specified geographical area.
Those farmers who associate contractually receive fertilizer from the
cooperative village shops or from agrokombinats' organizations dealing with
contractual farmers for payment in agricultural produce. Before obtaining
the fertilizer, the farmers sign a printed contract.
31.       At present, the Government relies for all agricultural input
distribution on agrokombinats, cooperatives, and to a minor extent, on the
retail shops of Yugoslavia's 29 trading agencies which continue to market
other agricultural inputs and small tools on a cash basis. This leads to a
policy favoring the social and cooperative sectors as agrokombinats/
cooperatives have little interest in assisting farmers unwilling to associate
contractually with the social sector. This is evident in the case of
fertilizer distribution and consumption, where the distribution/consumption
pattern bears little relationship to either the distribution of land or grain
production. At the same time, the non-contracting farmer has no effective
access to either formal credit or extension services; his association with
the social or cooperative sectors is what renders him eligible for credit
consideration. Thus, the Government's present policy of inducing cooperation
through limiting access to credit and inputs is, in fact, hindering achieve-
ment of much greater production in agriculture.
Fertilizer Producers
32.       There are 11 fertilizer producing enterprises located in five
Republics and two Autonomous Provinces. Many of these facilities were
constructed 15-20 years ago.   Historically, Yugoslav nitrogen production has
relied substantially on imports of ammonia, nitrogen solutions and ammonium
sulphate for further processing into calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) and
nitrogen-phosphate-potash (NPK) fertilizers. Between 1975-82, Yugoslavia



- 11 -
imported and exported finished nitrogenous fertilizer products, being a net
importer of urea (25% of urea production) and a net exporter of NPK (16% of
NPK production). Of the total existing capacity of 608,000 tons of finished
products (CAN, urea, and NPK/MAP) approximately 177,000 tons of nitrogen pro-
duction is based on imported intermediates. Facilities now under construction
would more than double current domestic ammonia production capacity from
457,000 tons to 1,080,000 tons of nitrogen, and finished nitrogenous
fertilizer production capacity from 609,000 tons to 1,186,000 tons by 1987,
leaving a deficit of some 105,000 tons of primary nitrogen to be obtained
through imports. As for phosphatic fertilizer, Yugoslavia has traditionally
been a net exporter. Present primary phosphate production capacity is
546,000 tpy P205 1/ against a finished NPK processing capacity of 314,000
tpy P205' With the completion of facilities under construction, primary
phosphate production capacity would increase by 1985 to 856,000 tpy P205
against a finished processing capacity of 519,000 tpy P205. Capacity
utilization for ammonia and nitrogen processing plants compare favorably with
international industry standards. Capacity utilization for the phosphoric
acid industry, as against an expected industry norm of 90% over the period
1970-81, has averaged approximately 75%. Ammonia production is almost
entirely natural gas based, of which about 40% is imported. The phosphatic
fertilizer industry is based almost entirely on indigenous sulphur sources.
There are no commercial phosphate rock or potash deposits in Yugoslavia.
33.       Fertilizer producers are structured largely along regional lines
with the development of capacity initiated by the needs of the Republic/
Province in which the enterprise is located. The producers within each
region have strong links with agrokombinats or cooperatives through long-term
agreements under which most of the fertilizer for domestic consumption is
sold. As a result, agrokombinats often provide long-term financing for
capacity expansion, necessary foreign exchange, and on occasion, even pay-
ments to offset losses of the fertilizer enterprises. The regional basis for
capacity development has worked quite well for regions with access to
regional raw materials (Croatia, Vojvodina, and Serbia for natural gas;
Serbia and Vojvodina for sulphuric acid). In other areas, however, the
desire for regional self-sufficiency has tended to distort development.
While there is an elaborate mechanism for providing needed information and
overall coordination, in practice, investment plans with strong regional
backing (including financing) generally pass the various screening levels.
Production Economics
34.       The existing ammonia plants have very high energy consumption and
this has adversely affected their economics. Indeed typically, about 85% of
the production costs in Yugoslav plants are for energy. As compared to the
present imported ammonia cost of about $175 per ton CIF (expected to rise to
$255 per ton by 1990, in 1983 prices), the direct economic production costs
of ammonia in the three existing plants range from $246 to $283 per ton
1/ Includes straight phosphate fertilizers.



- 12 -
(excluding depreciation, interest and capital charges) with a weighted
average of $262 per ton. The newest ammonia plant will have an economic
direct production cost of about $198 per ton, indicating that even this plant
will be only marginally economic in the long-term, and unlikely to generate
any meaningful returns on the original investments. Financially, the cost is
masked by the low price charged for domestic natural gas. Under SAL I, the
Government has agreed to increase these prices to world market levels over
the next few years. There is nevertheless, a strong likelihood that most of
the existing ammonia plants could be economically rehabilitated, if energy
conservation investments were implemented. As to their downstream ammonia
processing units, economic direct production costs are well below economic
benefits (the import parity price). Hence, the financing of imports of
ammonia and ammonia-related intermediaries for production of urea and CAN is
justified on economic grounds. The financing of imports of phosphate rock
for the existing phosphoric acid production is economically justified since
these plants utilize low-cost domestic sulphur. However, in the case of the
new INA phosphoric acid plant, based on higher cost imported sulphur, and
scheduled to commence production in 1984, the economics are less favorable.
As a result, the Government has indicated its intention to ensure that,
before phosphate rock is procured from the loan proceeds, fertilizer plants
will obtain quotations for the supply of phosphoric acid. Only if processing
the raw materials is more economic than importing the acid, would the plant
import the phosphate rock and sulphur.
Prices
35.       Domestic prices of finished fertilizers have been brought in line
with world market prices. In 1980, the Federal Government abolished the
price subsidy for the domestic market and prices were raised. In January
1983, domestic sale prices of urea, CAN and NPK were raised by 53%, and
another increase of 50% is expected in 1984. This year's increases will ease
the financial situation of the producers but it is necessary that the present
mechanism for determining domestic fertilizer prices be continued under the
proposed loan and that the country does not revert to the system of applying
federal subsidies for fertilizer (Guarantee Agreement, Schedule 2, Part B(l)).
Foreign Exchange Requirements/Allocation
36.       The shortage of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials has
been a major constraint to increased production. In 1982, to produce about
2.6 million tons of fertilizer, the total foreign exchange requirement was
about $229 million, of which 60% was from convertible areas and 40% from CMEA
countries. The total foreign exchange requirements for imports of spare
parts were about $25 million, of which about 80% was from convertible
currency areas. Until 1982, the major source of foreign exchange for the
fertilizer industry was from export of finished fertilizer and from the
export revenue of agrokombinats associated with the producers. Between
1977-79, about 11% of the total domestic production was exported to earn
foreign exchange essential for the import of raw materials. In 1980, when
the foreign exchange crisis first reached serious proportions, exports rose



- 13 -
to about 20% of total fertilizer production; however, in 1981, they declined
to about 12%, an indication of the Government's concern for ensuring domestic
availability. Fertilizer exports either reduced the quantity available for
the domestic market, or if exports were reduced to increase domestic
fertilizer availability, the industry failed to obtain the necessary foreign
exchange to import raw materials, resulting in reduced fertilizer production.
Both alternatives adversely affected agricultural production. The Government
has recognized the need to rationalize the allocation of foreign exchange for
the fertilizer industry in order to increase domestic production and, in
turn, the availability for domestic consumption.
37.       In January 1983, a Social Compact was entered into by the Federal
Executive Council, the Federal Chamber of Economy and the Republican/
Provincial Executive Councils and Chambers of Economy, under which 20% of the
foreign exchange proceeds from agricultural exports, excluding meat and fish,
is automatically allocated to the fertilizer industry for the purchase of raw
materials. It is expected that this will ensure the availability in 1984 of
about $50 million in foreign exchange to the fertilizer industry. In addi-
tion, in December 1983, the Federal Government, under its "Foreign Exchange
Allocation Policy for Priority Items", allocated $100 million for the import
of raw materials for fertilizer producers and indicated that increased
amounts will be allocated for 1984 and onward, if the foreign exchange diffi-
culties continue. Finally, and most significantly, the Fertilizer Producers
will have, through Vojvodjanska Banka, access to the foreign exchange revenues
earned from exports by agricultural Agrokombinats, which in 1983 were esti-
mated at US$1.3 billion. After other commitments, up to US$200 million could
be available for fertilizer production. Execution of a Self-Management Agree-
ment between Vojvodjanska Banka, (the Borrower), Agrohemija, the Fertilizer
Producers and the Agrokombinats, ensuring that the Borrower has access to
adequate amounts of foreign exchange, would constitute a condition of Loan
Effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). During negotiations, it was
agreed upon with the Guarantor that the fertilizer industry will continue to
receive all of its financing requirements (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.06)
and that the Borrower will continue to have access to foreign exchange for
the recycling or roll-over of fertilizer sub-loans until June 30, 1989 (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.05).
PART IV - THE LOAN
38.       In response to the Government's request for assistance to the
fertilizer sector, the Bank, recognizing the critical importance of
fertilizer for the revival of agricultural production, sent a review mission
in January 1983. Appraisal took place in May 1983, although this was followed
by a number of subsequent missions to resolve outstanding policy issues. The
Staff Appraisal Report No. 4649-YU, dated March 1984, is being distributed
separately. The key features of the loan are described in the Loan Summary
and in Section III of Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
March 12 to 20, 1984. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Branko
Jovanovic, Deputy President of the Federal Committee for Agriculture.



- 14 -
Objective/Concept
39.        The loan would assist the Government in increasing the domestic
availability of finished fertilizer for 1984 and 1985. It would address
policy and institutional issues pertaining to domestic distribution, by
ensuring individual farmers accessibility to incremental fertilizer on a cash
basis without requiring production or marketing contracts with the social
sector, as well as assisting the Government in modernizing and rehabilitating
the industry in the long run through the financing of technical studies to
define a program for improving production economics. The loan would provide
the foreign exchange to import raw materials and spare parts for the produc-
tion of the incremental consumption requirements, estimated to increase by
15% per annum in 1984 and 1985 for a total of 850,000 tons. Of this, about
680,000 tons, would be made available for sale through the retail shops of
participating trading agencies to individual farmers for cash. This amount
has been derived taking into consideration the relative fertilizer needs of
the social sector, the cooperatives and the non-contracting individual
farmers. The increased application of fertilizer by these farmers would
yield the optimum results in the immediate future. The balance will be used
in the cooperative sector, where the increased application is economically
justified.
Description
40.        The loan is designed to finance foreign exchange requirements for
incremental imports only and would include the following: (a) Sub-loans to
fertilizer producers for raw materials; phosphate rock, intermediates such
as MAP, DAP, ammonia and ammonia solution for incremental production esti-
mated at 0.85 million tons of finished fertilizer; and for critical spare
parts and essential catalysts; major items would be corrosion-resistant
materials for sulphuric and phosphoric acid plants, stainless steel piping
and catalysts for ammonia production; (b) sub-loans to fertilizer producers
for technical and energy studies of fertilizer plants to assess their operat-
ing and energy efficiency and identify measures and investments to reduce
costs.
Cost Estimates
41.        The loan represents the convertible foreign exchange requirements
for incremental domestic production in 1984 and 1985--US$57.2 million for raw
material, US$21.0 million for spare parts, US$1.72 million for studies, and
US$9.8 million for price contingencies. The cost of consultants is based on
an estimated requirement of 190 man months comprising about 110 man months
provided by foreign consultants, at a total cost of $12,000 per man month,
and 80 man months provided by local consultants at a total cost of $5,000 per
man month. Cost estimates are based on March 1984 prices. Price contingen-
cies for raw materials have been calculated on the basis of projected inter-
national inflation rates for fertilizer raw materials of 9.8% in 1984 and in
1985, while price contingencies for spare parts and consultants services have
been calculated on the basis of projected international inflation rates of
3.3% in 1984 and 8% in 1985. The front end fee on the Bank's loan would
amount to $224,439 and would be capitalized.



- 15 -
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       ICB would be used for raw materials and spare parts, except for
those items of a value equivalent to $100,000 or less per contract, which
would be procured following bids from at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Bank's Guidelines, and for proprietary spare parts agreed
with the Bank which may be procured through direct negotiation with suppliers.
The aggregate of such contracts would not exceed the equivalent of $8.0
million. Consultants services to be financed under the loan would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Local
consultants may form joint ventures with foreign companies to carry out the
energy studies. Procurement of all fertilizer raw materials would be coordi-
nated by Agrohemija, the Business Community of Fertilizer Producers, so that
the benefits of bulk purchases would be achieved for the same materials
required by more than one fertilizer company. Procurement of spare parts
would be made via the purchasing department of the relevant fertilizer com-
panies under the supervision of Vojvodjanska Banka to ensure that Bank pro-
curement Guidelines are adhered to.
43.       The loan is to be disbursed over two Bank fiscal years (FY85-FY86),
starting in the first quarter of FY85. Since items to be financed by the
Loan are all quick disbursing, the disbursement profile is not typical. The
first tranche would total $50.00 million. The second tranche, would consist
of about $40.00 million. The release of the Second Tranche, about June 1985,
would cover the period July to December 1985 (see para. 56). Disbursement
requests would be supported by full documentation.
The Borrower
44.       The Vojvodjanska Banka - Udruzena Banka has been selected by the
Government as the Borrower under the loan. Because of its involvement in
past Bank credit projects, it is conversant with the Bank's requirements, has
a nucleus of trained staff able to undertake appraisal and supervision, and
has gained experience in implementing nationwide projects. Vojvodjanska
Banka, an apex bank, consists of sixteen basic banks and has its headquarters
in Novi Sad in the Socialist Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Appraisal and
supervision of sub-borrowers would be undertaken by the Borrower's Foreign
Operations Department, which by September 1, 1984 would hire an additional
appraisal officer to handle the proposed loan matters (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, Part A). The financial position of Vojvodjanska Banka is satis-
factory and is being closely monitored by the Bank in connection with the
existing credit projects (Loans 1129-YU, 1801-YU and 1477-YU).
On-Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions
45.       The eleven fertilizer producers would submit loan applications to
the Borrower through its basic banks. The proposed Loan proceeds, which
would be channeled to Vojvodjanska Banka, would be on-lent to the fertilizer
companies in accordance with lending procedures and terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a) and (b) and
Schedule 5). In order to avoid duplication of work and to speed up sub-loan



- 16 -
approval, Vojvodjanska Banka would appraise each sub-borrower and prepare an
appraisal report. The Borrower would ensure (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5)
that:
(a) management, organizational and production facilities of
sub-borrowers are appropriate for the timely production of
fertilizer;
(b) sub-borrowers generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt
service, local claims and appropriate investment levels;
(c) documents and clearances necessary for foreign exchange
lending are obtained by the sub-borrowers, the basic banks and
Republican/Provincial authorities and/or Federal authorities;
(d) sub-borrowers have the Yugoslav Social Accounting Service
(SDK) prepare and audit the income statement, statement of
changes in financial position and balance sheet, in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and submit them
to the Borrower at the end of each fiscal year.
46.       Sub-borrowers would receive the loan funds in foreign exchange, but
they would repay Vojvodjanska Banka in Dinars at the exchange rate prevailing
at the time of repayment. The Borrower would then convert the Dinars into
dollars from the sources of foreign exchange described in para. 37. The
duration of sub-loans for raw materials and spare parts should not exceed 12
months; and for technical studies four years, with one year grace period.
Funds would be on-lent at the same rate as that charged by the Bank, plus a
spread of about 1% to cover administrative costs. This is considered an
acceptable rate of interest given that the sub-borrowers would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Technical and Energy Studies
47.       An assurance was obtained from the borrower that it would require
concerned fertilizer producers to complete the studies, in accordance with
the terms of reference finalized during negotiations, by March 31, 1986 and
from Agrohemija, that the results of these studies would be reviewed with the
Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.06 and Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part B,
Para. 6(c)). The proceeds from the loan for these studies would be on-lent
to the fertilizer producers by the Borrower in consultation with Agrohemija
under terms of an agreement between the Borrower, Agrohemia and the 11
fertilizer producers. Execution of such an agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)). Based
on the findings of the technical and energy studies, a plan of action would
be prepared by December 31, 1986, outlining the investment and other measures
required to rehabilitate the fertilizer production units in order to place
them on a sound economic footing (Project Agreement, Section 2.06).
48.       Agrohemija would also be responsible for the selection of
consultants and the coordination of technical studies, the monitoring of
fertilizer production and distribution, and for assisting the Borrower in the



- 17 -
supervision of procurement of raw materials and spare parts. A Project
Implementation Working Group would be established in Agrohemija to organize
and coordinate the technical studies. The terms of reference for the studies
and the scope of work for the group were established during negotiations.
The establishment and staffing of such a Group would be a condition for loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(c)). At the Federal level, a
Loan Implementation Committee would be established (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.05). The Committee would consist of representatives of the Federal
Committee for Agriculture, the Federal Secretariat for Finance, the Federal
Secretariat for Markets and General Economics, the Federal Chamber of
Economy, Agrohemija and Vojvodjanska Banka.  The Committee which would
coordinate different aspects of loan implementation would be chaired by the
Deputy President of the Federal Committee for Agriculture and Vojvodjanska
Banka would serve as a Secretariat.
Monitoring/Reporting
49.       Agrohemija would be responsible for monitoring and reporting on the
planned production and distribution targets and the technical studies
(Project Agreement, Section 2.03(a)(iii)). In monitoring fertilizer produc-
tion and distribution, Agrohemia, in close cooperation with participating
trading agencies, would report, on a periodic basis, the progress made in
achieving the plarned targets, with distribution broken down by social and
cooperative sectors and farmers buying on a cash basis, by fall and spring
seasons, and by Republics and Provinces. Based on the existing system for
recording fertilizer sales, monitoring can be readily undertaken to determine
quantities sold to non-contracting individual farmers. Agrohemija would
submit these reports to the Borrower, which, after careful review, would
forward them to the Bank within 30 days after the end of the period.
Progress reports on the general execution of the project and on the studies
would be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis within thirty days after
the quarter concerned (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
Accounts and Audits
50.       The Borrower would maintain a separate account for sub-loan dis-
bursements and other expenditures under the Loan (Loan Agreement, Section
5.01). It would have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statement of income and expenditures and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing procedures consistently
applied by the Yugoslav Social Accounting Service, an independent auditing
organization acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower would furnish to the Bank,
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies
of its financial statements audited as above and the report of the Social
Accounting Service (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Marketing Arrangements
51.       The incremental fertilizer production financed under the loan would
be distributed by agrokombinats, cooperatives and trading agencies. A total
of 680,000 tons, equivalent to 80X of the incremental fertilizer domestically



- 18 -
available in 1984 and 1985, would be made available to individual farmers on
a cash basis through the retail shops of the trading agencies. A self-
management agreement between the Borrower, Agrohemija and the fertilizer
producers would make available the agreed quantities of fertilizer in 1984
and 1985 to the participating trading agencies for sale on a cash basis and
execution of this SMA would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness (Loan Agree-
ment, 7.01(a)). About 170,000 tons, equivalent to 20% of the incremental
fertilizer production, would be sold to the cooperative sector for applica-
tion. During negotiations, domestic fertilizer production targets for 1984
and 1985 and domestic consumption targets for 1984 to 1989 were agreed to
with the Guarantor and assurances were obtained that the Guarantor would take
all steps necessary to achieve these targets and to ensure that the above
distribution would be followed (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04 and
Schedule 2). This agreement on distribution ensures that fertilizer will not
be exported until the fertilizer requirements of the domestic market are
met. An understanding was also obtained from the Guarantor that the future
domestic fertilizer distribution system would be determined in accordance
with the recommendations of the scientific and research services in
Yugoslavia and on the basis of soil fertility needs for different crops, in
order to optimize fertilizer utilization.
Economic Justification and Benefits
52.       The proposed loan would assist Yugoslavia to increase the avail-
ability of fertilizer to the domestic market, resulting in a total incre-
mental production of 0.85 million tons of fertilizer for domestic application,
which should permit an increase in grain production of about 1.3 million
tons, mainly of wheat and maize, in the shortest possible time - an important
objective of the Government's Stabilization Program.
53.       Of the estimated total incremental grain production (about 1.3
million tons), wheat would constitute about 80% (1.0 million tons) and maize
the remainder. The increased wheat production, in particular, would assist
the country in reducing wheat imports which, in the past three years, have
averaged about 0.8 million tons annually. The expected additional maize
production would enable exports to both Eastern Europe and convertible
currency countries to be increased. Both of these items together would
result in foreign exchange resources of about $208.0 million.
54.       The major beneficiaries of the loan would be non-contracting
individual farmers (about 1.2 million farm families presently without official
access to fertilizer) and the fertilizer producers. Even with a modest
increase in their present fertilizer application, the incomes of such
families would increase by about Din 4,000/ha or about Din 12,000 ($100)
since, on average, each non-contracting farm family owns about 4 ha of which
about 3 ha are under grain production. The present value of net benefits
discounted at 16% and 20% would be Din 3,660 and Din 3,000 respectively.
Both these returns are fully satisfactory.
55.       There are several major areas of risk inherent in this type of loan:
Foreign Exchange: Although the Bank would assist the country over
a twc year period in meeting foreign exchange requirements for



- 19 -
increased domestic availability of fertilizer, unless the necessary
foreign exchange were to continue to be made available to the
fertilizer industry thereafter, the situation could again revert to
the present one. As stated in paras 36 and 37, however, the
Guarantor has agreed to take all steps necessary to ensure the
achievement of revised domestic production targets for 1984-85 and
consumption targets for 1984-89; an appropriate mechanism would be
set up whereby the Borrower would continue to have access to
foreign exchange for fertilizer sub-loans until June 30, 1989.
Distribution: While there is no guarantee that the fertilizer
distribution arrangements would be continued in the post-loan
period, sustaining the operation of an effective distribution
system for agricultural inputs would be one of the major issues
addressed in a possible second SAL. In addition, an understanding
was obtained during negotiations that future domestic fertilizer
distribution would be based on soil fertility needs for different
crops so as to optimize fertilizer utilization.
Non-Contracting Individual Farmers; It is possible that individual
farmers may not purchase fertilizer on a cash basis as
anticipated. Based on discussions and statistical information,
however, this risk is low since these farmers are well aware of the
economic benefits of fertilizer application.
Rehabilitation: The restructuring of the fertilizer industry, as a
result of the technical and energy studies of fertilizer plants
under the proposed loan, could have social implications. For
example, uneconomic units might have to be closed down. The
fertilizer industry is capital-intensive, however, and the
unemployment consequences of any shutdowns would be minimal.
Furthermore, the Government recognizes the importance of
rationalizing fertilizer production and its decision to borrow
under the proposed loan, for financing such a study, is an
indication of its serious intent.
Weather Conditions: The benefits of increased fertilizer
application are very much dependent upon weather conditions. The
short time period involved in the loan and the urgent need to
increase grain production render weather conditions of special
concern. No policy precautions can be taken in this regard,
however.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Vojvodjanska Banka-
Udruzena Banka, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Poslovna
Zajednica Proizvodjaca Vestackih Djubriva Jugoslavije "Agrohemija" - Beograd,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are



- 20 -
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of
effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01) are that:
(i) the agreement between the Borrower, Agrohemija, and the eleven
fertilizer producers concerning implementation of the technical
studies, availability of fertilizer to the trading agencies and the
preparation of periodic reports on the fertilizer sold through
retail shops has been duly executed;
(ii) the agreement between the Borrower, Agrohemija, the fertilizer
producers and the agricultural agrokombinats ensuring the Borrower's
access to foreign exchange has been duly executed; and
(iii) the Project Implementation Working Group has been established and
staff appointed thereto, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Special conditions of disbursement of the second tranche of the proposed loan
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, Para. 4, and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03
and Schedule 1) are that:
(i) about 1.5 million tons of fertilizer have been made available for
the domestic market in the fall of 1984 and about 1.7 million tons
made available for the domestic market in the spring of 1985;
(ii) about 240,000 tons of fertilizer have been made available to the
trading agencies for sale, on a cash basis, to individual farmers
for the fall 1984 and about 200,000 tons for spring 1985; and
(iii) adequate progress has been made in carrying out the technical and
energy studies.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 13, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT  lb        MIDDLE INCOME              INDUSTRIAL
196OZ/b     1970-b  ESTIMATE-b             EUROPE             MARKET ECONOMIES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. N)
TOTAL                                255.8       255.8        255.8
AGRICULTURAL                         148.2       146.3        142.9
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    380.0       820.0       2790.0            2453.6                    11112.7
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPTTA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       858.0      1558.0       2402.0            1580.8                     7500.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,ttID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   18402.0     20371.0      22516.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         27.9        34.8         43.1              47.8                       78.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         71.9        79.6         87.3              82.0                      139.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             124.2       139.3        156.4             157.2                      514.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Y)
0-14 YRS                           30.5        27.4         24.5              31.9                       22.4
15-64 YRS                           63.2        64.8         66.7              60.9                       66.0
65 AND ABOVE                         6.3         7.8          8.8               7.2                       11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                1.2         1.0          0.9               1.6                        0.8
URBAN                                3.6         3.2          2.9               3.4                        1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          23.5        17.8         16.7              25.0                       13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           9.9         8.9          9.0               9.1                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.4         1.3          1.1               1.7                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TilOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        59.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                         85.0        93.0        117.0             108.4                      112.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (7 OF REQUIREMENTS)       128.0       130.0        140.0             129.6                      134.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            95.0        93.0        101.0              92.3                       99.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          29.0        32.0         39.0/c            34.6                       61.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           11.2         4.b          1.8              10.4                        0.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         63.2        66.7         70.8              67.2                       74.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         91.9        55.5         30.6              71.4                       10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 ..        33.6/d
URBAN                               42.4/d      62.07..
RURAL                                 *-        12.37..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1620.0      1000.0        680.0            1094.8                      553.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              630.0/e     410.0        280.0             762.5                      182.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              200.0       180.0        170.0/f           334.0                      119.8
URBAN                               90.0/e     100.0        100.071           216.0                      143.2
RURAL                             1040.0/e    1600.0       1840.07..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        17.3         18.2/f            20.0                       17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               -4.0         3.8          3.8/f
URBAN                                3.3         3.2          3.3/f.
RURAL                                4.4         4.3          4.17.
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                1.6         1.4
URBAN                                1.7         1.3
RURAL                                1.5         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               54.5        87.9
URBAN                               92.7        98.4
RURAL                               36.1        80.1
_________ -________________ __ __ __ ---------------------                                               ----------



- 2 2 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGS) /a
MOST                       (MST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
/b          /b  RECENT  lb         MIDDLE INCOME               INDUSTRIAL
1960L-=-    197W0-  ESTIMAT-b               EUROPE              MABRET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                   111.0        106.0         99.0             102.2                       101.5
MALE                    113.0       108.0        100.0              107.2                       103.3
FEHALE                  108.0       104.0         98.0               97.9                      103.3
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    58.0         63.0         83.0               56.5                       89.2
MALE                     63.0         68.0        86.0               63.4                        84.5
FEMALE                   53.0        58.0         80.0               48.9                        86.0
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              ..        26.4         24.2               22.4                       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         27.0         24.0               24.7                       20.2
SECONDARY                           13.0         22.0        18.0               22.1                        14.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                76.5        83.5         85.0/g             69.7                       98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            3.0         35.4         84.7/h             52.9                      356.5
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          84.9        165.9       207.4               165.5                     1085.4
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               1.4        88.3        192.4              124.2                      449.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               70.3        85.3        103.0               96.3                      331.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         7.1         4.5          3.5                2.9                        3.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           8302.0       8838.0/i    9485.0/i
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    3 5.0        35.9        36.1                34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               63.0         51.0         29.0               40.7                        6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         23.0        35.0                23.4                       37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.1        43.4         42.1               42.0                       45.5
MALE                                60.0         56.6         54.6               55.2                       59.0
FEMALE                              30.9         30.6         30.0               29.1                       32.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8          0.8          0.8                0.9                        0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            16.4/        15.1/k       13.1/b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           41.571                   38.77.                                         43.1
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.97/       6.67k        6.67b               ..                        5.5
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.0 h      18.47k       18.771               ..                       16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        530.0             409.0.
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URBAN                                                        ..                  ..
RURAL                                 ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d Percent of occupied housing units with piped water; /e 1962; /f 1976; /g 1975; /h 1978; /I Including
migrant workers abroad; 7] 1963; Ik 1968.
Nay 1983



- 23 -                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL iIlICATtOR
Notes:  Although the data are dra-  from  atorcee generaiiy judged the most eohrtsiead reliable, it should else be oe   htte   a  ech   eessoai
comparable becaus  oftelc         :feadardled defiuditouu  atd cutoe.pus ued by different uotrieo  it coltlgthe data.  The Is na ar,eethb ,usflt
desribe orders of _ngottadr, ld Ict  treds,ad icaacele tertait saJ.e doff-eroca  he-ee
The reference. ators. are (1) ube ea-  c-coy groop of,t .b s..j..  uon. tryae   III acotr            igop  ah eumeehat higher aoerge irome thee the  -Iotry group of the
ssbjectto....try (eacept foe eHigh Icotee" Oil Exportes  gruspehere "Middle,  ...os  Norh Aftric  aud Middle  aEt"' Is tbesen he.a..e ofstograe-eiu
Of flttle)           the eefceec  greet data the  --ergoa ae popolatite teighted arilheett s.ans for each  udacesur sod shee  otly oboe aajrity ef she.. tslel_a is 
group  .e data foe cha  ludcator        iore  the rocerage of coent,t Ie....egthidtsesepnsu the                   tealtabilityp  of data aIdisetaI-om   attemm  ha
etarised it r-laclg e-ragea of ete indicator to oete.These an-rges are eelp usfu                     rtopariOg the  ae           eeldctre  asm   me   h   aer   n
dEA (thousan d sek.lBreaie   e                                                                                           habis-Paaatt  dinaded by tuahr of prsatstlsg
Tousi - To ta1 aurfate urea cmPriabeg latd are  atd Inlaud oseore; 1960,                             phaIosqaiidto    a d eital school attin                     yaa.
Agei-Iltn-1 - CEtieate of aittolorea teed temporarily orpraosytleedfml   rduate    ..  ...es  aslta.tte-ds  prby                                                   ca - esee   n
f9or crop, ptua,   aket.. aolth.nhe  gardena or to  Ie. falt;lh,ttln.ti  ate
190ad 180 dae                                                                                PePo1atien Pee 11uspata1 ted - etatl, aeham, aed rural - Pepalatle   fest
urhac, cod eara1)ditieded hy the icreaeuia  obeg of bepital beds
GNP PIt CaPITA (US$) -GNP per papita etareta ortee.t sarht prices,                                     a_itablein  alcalpleegeeladaeiledhsIa 
cellte   h  sur1ouaricomehoba  Worlid moat  atlas(19 79-ti hasis);                                   rbliteieuoes d                  ptasaeenblamsspeasei   tfe
iMbO, 1978, aud 198k dote,by at lea  toet                                                      hscie        sshihets pr-idlog  prtett,ally catedla1
;. -I   "' " _l-,  1, "I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~cae  rcou  acided.  RunaI hospItals , hreas'r,ibuelodehatan
primay" etrgy (coal and  _iet,ptoom,etrlgealhyt-   ula                                                sistanrt, trse   lef,nt)eitofe   epseg ndsa    n
audIachrml    leticity) i  klgoeof cue1 equlcaleetd par.- cait;                               enie    htedrag  of---I e          -ffca    failtis   Per        bytl s  purposes
*                     tObO~~~~~~~~16, 1970, oud1980 date..P,orba;""t hsIta.   itu fd.;b   riclulgecr.  ad cra
..d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~epleald, local ur rota bupti ndmdclan  aentytses
yPOPLAIOTN gap VITAL STATISTICS                                                                        ipceh.dheptl                arelecode  tely tdela1 toa.d   ttr
Todtal ropolatloo, Mad-Year (thocoando) - Au cf JuLy 1; 1960, 1970, aod 1981                       adm.issious pet  taitel~ ted. ITlsdd u.mhe Oof dmsosn   rdahr
dots,                                                                                               fromftoa)   bBtoosp-1...I.italo dinided by the n-oabr of beds'
dltfereot dfo-iu   o   raora  ma yffect otmyaoability of dsa t.11
AOmog  otories; 1960, 1970, etd 19f1 data                                                     HOUSNGaole   Olotbl   cttsprhaead      oa.ohe                                    aa
Peuale1rujecftio-                                                                              - to   --1to   r  Al htehl ofcouit  ofI aPr. groa   hof ..i.ml  teceslolgqsa
MNtatalpooatt  byaotd aseaud their ..e. it' n  fertility. the  Su bid  o   tutthlpaps
oae.Projetio  prtaaa  o  mrale   rtes   aprie ufthre                                        ecgthmeir       f  eroa  utrom-iotl  eren  adrualsotganubrtr
lerela  ..e.io  lieePctatoy at birth ioceaaog   ith cuferp   pr                                  o        hpeson  per room  tnalahn   ndttlocpedceetaa
peart.  Te parameers foe fertility  ltotylobo   he   ed                                 otocu,  a                   tieporte. ~.   .  o    yRo   -f .di
euruttattemattscessatt.    his is ahIeved tip afterfootilttray eaI (j ,-te  fooperet hatldrues                                                      -,      _
laclie  tuthe rpiatmaut  evelof omt ne  roendttlo  rats, thee                          Pimar  soe  p-itta,y male and  female -                 d --oloal mal  atIeml
~~~~~fertility rae-o oydeeotle   .                                                           coutr.s...ba.neealsdaatouer-dmet  ayteced  08pelys
Tear otatiunary popeloElnish teathy -. the. year .. obet sntofary                             sinc  000ppl  aehlsorbe htofii                          colaa
popoi-lsuem att  til Yhrechd.f                                                                  lecoudyary dofooopr- total,. male an  fate     omutd  saeg;ecsdr
Poeolaticu  et.lty                                                                            ---ctil...oIqoircat          eat  oo  yar  o  aptoa    rmr  imrtt
far t. he.- Mtdytar  opulaIon  er oqare klo meer (50 hecaree  of                   ponide  gemeal, rnataual,  r tepberttalui_tloitarthaa  fe
total aea; 190, 197, aud  980 daa.                                        puplot1  ealb..  of ID tu.  17yer  ofago   orapod:c  oss    e
Per-  lb. e.borce ni. loud  t- opoed-a ahece                 I forafOcitre  lan                     gtergi eeed
uuly; 1968, 1970 oud1980 data.                                                    Vucatitel eerollaeet (perceu  of secoedIry).d       Voatiotal lestisAtlOa
po ai t; 16, 1970, an pd1981 data        _-.       To.Pli-l-tacbee etl  - priary  and fs.t.ooda ry-Toa  seed ents en -tle .I
fopotte   rothe tapol.tporcnc  - toha  -.i aona  gth  raho  of u:rha                             Mol   llerc   rate (pretI           ieat   dsu(bet  ra   n   rt)a
pose pupuluotoc; 1981, 1970, and 190of1p data.                                                  -tol_,  Cl      It 5    P',9el                  tIgg
Items Ieruluctle  tate-Intage  touer of doghuereaoman til  hearftoPilitaryahlflas
PaY-  plunmadcopcOos.At-           t (tohad)             ..ta  tIbre    cpots ts u                             , ItIfet    aafercc   ee   a  no-ty he               . topaaie. fi_ms
program                                                                                      YT      -  btei tr (ret- th orau   ptiatuff    T   ec er   oe-uaosI
PaiyP'utu-sr   preto  ate    aeo      'reoaeo                            re                       eea pi sc  e  thuad puuitiun; enciod                      ..m toiemd  Treeler
oilmarIedtono  n tneaaeorcp.                                                           eacacq.lrceateniperthntad yputsto)   Oho-thearoag
ff1ahtTITO                                                                                     lclcaeo  'ol  geea                     ..aetoasao"  letC toe d basay.....diay
at     1960odcte  1970 all fed19uiit,Pnotoe edoedtdt e0dIy   fIrapasa   eo  fu   ieaek
cuff e  a196tea artItac     )   agrgte~    benocio fof eriach       r coonor  is                  mo            11hle2to17Feults,ge                                       f
1970e ottoa  aesrae prd Pce  prcoogt;1r-h,17.ad18
dats.                                                                                   IAO980dDt   I_P0-P0CCe  .u..
Po   ata Supplofcalries(cctofreimea9-Cptd fret                                            Total  Iabo  Fore  thedad)-ltetslyatv    eeus   mid                             re
oPePlrts, ae   60egr  It7 stock   Net -aple  emulueoranmai fed,   oe,tma-b                                        196, 1970     ll and 1 th81 data.                _.   d
age al teadistrhotia  of ppuistot,  o  a grom hng  1  pretfor tst idosry(pttet)-  I.aht                                        ..e . it yitin,   Tron ttosim,mseat aem
-                     palse peoteto, of ahlcb9--6 O 190 7, grat  shoe 7 he1 atslpoes    heeib,17,tdl91dt.Teeartee                                                           n10sutoptt   as
.tada ith a t arc lsrta tho  of 75grm   ofrtota  pereteh    e   3gem                                e  et    agt -ast ttntr  oftepplto,an5                    e   Ietea
Thrd96ri 0Pe  lonp   91h,17   e 1      980 dta.        -cetodc Oajdenr  dait   RatopOefi p                                           gaate  ne   5  n   1sd    crI
deetoed  fro  ePutoal .. -du90 n17,ed  198lado to ras  e  day;t1981-k, 197 a...d. 1977H
data.                                                                 IttClef~~~~~~~or DIIatTot
Child  age  1-b)  eathtate (per t.. nsatd) f   tldah   o  tdonatd On I -c-illeebo I                               p:riothe   e Incme   letranoathp.and bled)-IiIe   b   ihs
ag 'r I -   er,c   bire   ntI   g   tOifema dvlpo                                               eto,rcotD perroeriget,P - porst   prOdeoeen  ted potat  O  aree  e
year ofage perkhousau  hoe hiths; 190, 1978ted 198  data.                           bsulotepct.  etpioctiett   nei isthen" IttI'd   ienl belteallah aoiolda
Afccia of oft lWater              ..rce  of  unath-o")- total  urban, aofoa  -po                    t          rreoal   dqaeditpa   ueta   o-fn   euemtai  o
matr   Oppl  (ooodt  rate    outac                    ..et  or autreated ot,Isimtegtlaffv  teverty  -to                                 - local (It  ret cata .- ar.blt  ndrJ e
sanitary tells) at P'reae  of ther  reptle-O  popolaItousf. It at                           peoratupbli isom   u he- toPu1tirp.  Oe    lvlisTindfuete  oa
frm .   oaema  h   uciacIftbeo eIdhtb  eatoutahie acuass of that                                 fTVRtmared  (Perlta   eo   booePvry  noelvl(aes       re
haua. I- rurlaesrttabeacaeol  Implyj that the                            i buetfeo.n  rua  - Prtotof. pop palee (rh_   and rurl)th  are  abml
Id",ersro the hoi-holl do  ot-have-i apend a  idproplrito..e pusTof                           poe
indexO lay~ in fecigOefmly  etrtns
toa-    d-hrofpti-s (tutr ,  rbe, a....a.)sered   ysoree
lispooalio  pepcennagsu of their ocepectira pop~~~~~~odaen. O   .  ractot  dieposadi
ma  tPtuleth  colttiu ao  dipoal,oit  o--ibou  t-ateet.o OtaItoc aol Mota  The   pstn                                                                                       rido
hu-adecoI   aloaceeca  h-ete-Pretyteaorth11aofpO                                                                                    cot mcaclylsad  eaethsdipataa
prities and siollar Iosoailauiotno .                                              dOfifaitp 1903t 



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  22.7 million (mid-1982)
GNP Per Capita:  USi2,840 (1982)
Amount                                                 Annual Growth Rates (1)
(million US$ at                                           (at constant prices)
nIditcator                  current prices)                                   Actual                                                Projected
1981            1978      1979      1980     1981      1982     1983 c/  1984      1985      1986      1987     1988
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
GrDoss domestic product a/        68,005             8.5      4.2       2.3       1.4      0.8      -1.3      1.5       2.9      3.7       4.6       5.2
Agriculture                      8,136            -5.4      5.4       0.0      2.8       7.4     -2.1       1.0       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0
Iniustry                       27,897             9.2       8.5       3.2      2.2      -1.1       1.3      2.0       3.0      4.0       5.0      6.0
Se-vices                       23,814            11.3       3.1      -4.6      0.0       0.8 c/ -4.0        1.0      3.0       4.0       5.0      5.5
Coosumption                       44,884            13.8      3.0       0.6     -1.7       0.5      -2.1      0.4       1.9      2.8       3.7       5.4
Gross investment                  24,155           -1.8      11.4      -6.4     -0.5      -1.3       0.0     -2.7       4.1      5.1       6.8       5.4
Eg?nrts of GNFS                   15,448            -0.2      12.7     10.4      0.5    -11.5        0.1      7.7       4.4      4.7       5.1       5.4
Imyorts of GNFS                  16,482             0.6      18.4      -8.6    -10.8    -15.3      -3.6       1.2       3.5      4.1       5.5      6.1
Gro-c national savings            23,209            -0.2      2.0       3.0     -6.0      -0.6       1.1       -         -        -         -         -
PRI CE S
GDP cleflator (1980 -100)            140            65       79       100      140       181       254         -         -        -        -          _
Exch6nge rate  (Dinars per US$)       35.5          18.6     19.0      24.6     35.0      50.3     92.8        -         -             -        -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                                     Average Annual Increase (1)
(at current prices) b/                                           (at constant prices)
1960     1970       1975     1980       1985       1990               1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gr3su Domestic Product a/       100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0                  5.9        6.5       4.1        0.8       5.0
Agriculture                   22.5      16.1       13.8     11.1       12.9       11.2                  3.3       2.9        2.0        2.0       2.0
Industry                      42.2      37.4      44.3      40.5      40.9       41.9                  6.3        8.3        7.5       0.1        5.5
Services                      29.0      38.1      33.1      35.8       36.2      36;9                   6.9       4.7        4.9      -0.6        5.4
Consumption                     67.2      72.8       74.3     68.3       65.9      65.3                   6.5       6.9        6.3        0.3       4.8
Gross investment                 36.5     32.3       33.5     35.8       27.5       28.7                  4.7        5.5       5.4        0.4        5.9
Exports GNFS                     13.9     18.5       20.2     20.6       31.5       32.2                 10.2        6.7       5.2       -0.4        5.4
ImpIorts GNFS                    17.5     23.5       28.0     24.7       24.9      26.1                   9.8       6.7        5.0       -5.5       6.0
Gr-ss national savings           32.6     29.6       25.6     32.3       33.1       33.7                  5.3        6.2       3.2         -          -
As I of GDP
1960     1970       1975     1980       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                   27.9     33.1       36.8     34.0       32.3
Toial expenditures               24.1     33.2       37.2     34.6       31.6
Su-plus (+) or deficit (-)      +3.8      -0.1       -0.4     -0.6       +0.7
1960-70  1970-75   1975-80  1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNI growth rate (Z)               6.1      6.7        6.0      0.2        5.3
GNI' per capita growth rate       5.0      5.8        5.1     -0.7        4.4
ICOR                              5.4      4.6        5.6     53.7        5.7
Import elasticity                 1.6      1.0        1.2     -6.8        1.2
a/  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add up to total due to exclusion of net indirect taxes.
b P Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
c /  Etimate.
16671?                                                                                                                                       EMENA IC
April 11, 1984



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 22.7 million (mid-1982)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,840 (1982)
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                    Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(million USS at                                               (at constant prices) d/
Indicator                    current prices)                                     Actual                                             Projected
(1982)            1978       1979    1980    1981        1982       1983 e/  1984       1985      1986      1987      1988
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                 9,923              1.4       1.6      11.0       4.3      -8.6       1.8       8.3       6.0       5.3       5.3       5.3
Primary a/                        1,816              3.3      -0.8       3.0    -19.5    -12.9         5.7       8.8       6.3       5.5      5.5        5.5
Manufactures bi                   8.107              0.8       2.4      13.5      11.0     -7.7        1.1       8.1       5.9      5.3        5.3       5.3
Merchandise Imports                i2,810             -1.3      18.0    -10.5    -12.3    -10.0         -3.4      -1.9       3.6       4.7       5.9       6.6
Food                                714           -24.3       56.9     -7.8    -17.8       -8.2    -10.4        1.9        3.8       5.3      6.7       7.7
Petroleum c/                      3,298             10.4      10.6     -3.1      -9.4        2.8     -2.0        1.4      2.0        3.2      3.9       4.2
Machinery and equipment           2,968             -0.2      24.7    -19.3    -26.4    -14.8        -5.2      -2.0       3.8       5.0        6.3       7.1
Others                            5,830             -2.1      10.8     -7.9      -8.4    -13.7       -1.7       2.0        3.7      4.7       5.9       6.6
PRICES (1980 - 100)
Export price index                     117            73        84       100       109       117       113       116       126       137       149      163
Import price index                    112             70        83       100       110       112      111       116       124       135       148       160
Terms of trade index                  104.5          104.4    101.2    100.0        99.1    104.5    101.8    100.0    101.6    101.5    100.7    101.9
Composition of Merchandise  Trade (Z)                                       Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                                   (at constant prices)
1960       1970       1975       l980       1985       1990                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                    8.1        5.7        2.9       1.7       5.3
Primary a/                                 49.6       29.4       19.5       22.0       14.6       14.7                    -        -1.3        4.2      -4.1       5.5
Manufactures b/                            50.4       70.6       80.5       78.0       85.4       85.3                     -        8.1         2.3       2.6      5.3
Imports                                     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                   9.0         7.4        4.0     -5.0       6.6
Pood                                        9.1        7.2        5.5        7.2        4.7        5.0                    -         5.0        8.7      -6.4       7.6
Petroleu  c/                                5.4        4.8       12.3       23.6       20.2       19.6                    -         8.2        8.7      -0.7       4.0
Machinery and equipment                    36.8       33.2       33.9       28.0       27.9       28.4                     -        9.4         1.8     -8.9       7.0
Others                                     48.7       54.8       48.3       41.2       47.1       47.0                    -         6.0        2.6      -4.0       6.6
Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with            Share of Trade with Capital             Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (M)             Developing Countries (Z)           Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)        Centrally Planned Economies (M)
1965    1970      1975      1981      1965    1970    1975    1981   1965    1970    1975    1981            1965    1970    1975    1981
DIRECTION OP TRADE
Exports                 40.1    53.3       34.0      31.0      17.4    13.6    16.8    17.0    0.4         0.7      2.1      3.0     42.1    32.4    47.1    49.0
Primary               61.0    70.2       54.0       -         9.1     8.2      8.9      -       0.2      0.2      1.9      -       29.7    21.4    35.2        -
Manufactures          24.0    41.9       26.0       -        23.8    17.2    20.0       -       0.6      1.0      2.1      -       51.6    39.9    51.9        -
Imports                 55.3    66.1       47.5      50.1      16.0    12.7    15.7    15.3    0.1         0.1      0.6     9.1      28.6    21.1    24.6    28.1
a/ SITC 0-4
b/ SITC 5-8
c/ SITC 3; includes lubricants, coal and electricity.
d/  Projected years at constant 1972 prices; for historical years,base year prices are those of the preceding year.
./ Estimates.
1669H
ENEMA lC
March 27, 1984



- 26 
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions)
Po,lation:  22.7 million (mid-1982)
GNP Per Capita:  USi2,840 (1982)
I.locator                                                                             Actual                                          Projected
1978       1979        1980         1981    1982    1983 */   1984          1985      1986      1987          8
BALANGE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                   11,446       14,526      18,098      19,642   18,088   16,854   18,659    20,637   23,129   26,014   29,427
of which:  Merchanaise f.o.b.                  5,671       6,794       8,973       10,205    9,923    9,914   11,140    12,744   14,629   16,793   19,278
Im.ports of goods and services                  12,702      18,187      20,389       20,588   18,712   16,580   18,103    19,767   21,675   24,311   27,555
of woich:  Merchandise c.i.f.                  9,988      14,019      15,064       14,528   12,810   12,154   12,979    14,414   16,456   18,992   22,058
Nit transfers                                         -           -           -           -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
Ct-rent account balance                          -1,256      -3,661       -2,291        -946      -624       274       556        870    1,455    1,703    1,872
Private direct investment                             -           -           -           -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
MIj  loans (net)                                 1,719        1,346       1,924         548      -187     1,181      -241        209      -251      -779       916
Ocher capitsl b/                                  -204        1,173         499         636      -201   -1,510       -173       -540      -752      -557      -619
Change in reserves                                -259        1,142        -132        -238    1,012         55      -456       -279      -321      -459   -1,945
international reserves c/                        3,245       1,968       2,567        2,687     1,675     1,622    2,156       2,434     2,756    3,215    5,159
Of which:  Gold (official valuation)              69           73          78          78        78        78        78         78        78        78        78
Reserves as months imports                            3.1         1.3         1.5         1.6        1.1      1.2       1.4        1.5       1.5       1.6       2.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
ronss disbursements                              3,057        3,891       4,596       3,107    2,314    3,660       3,316      3,206    3,914    4,005        4058
Official credits, public and
publicly guaranteed                            369         519.        676.         712.     471.   1,136      1,816        602       479       475       458
Multilateral                                 180         318.        308         218       344.      340       552        436       446       453       454
IBRD                                      180         294.        281         218.      330.      280       552        436       446       453       454
Bilateral                                    189         201         368         494.      128.      796    1,274         166        63        22         4
Private creditors and non-guaranteed           2,687       3,372        3,920       2,395     1,843    2,524      1,500      2,604    3,435      3,530    3,600
Yugoelav export credit (net)                     (-105)       (-150)      (-215)      (-234)   (-177)   (-157)   (-200)    (-260)   -(129)           (91)   (-225)
External debt
Debt outata.ning and
disbursed d/                                11,353      14,177      16,237      17,348   17,830   18,385   19,695    19,948   19,194   17,922   18,287
Undisbursed debt                                 1,671     1,393        1,212       1,783    1,441    2,418    2,585        2,702    2,781       2,836    3,010
Debt service e/
Total service payments                         2,029       2,582       3,357        4,008    4,006    4,875    5,835         5,729     6,800    7,229    5,543
Interest f/                                    495         821       1,281       1,987    2,049    2,155    2,197         2,376    2,102       1,951    1,851
Payments as 2 exports                             18           18          19          20        22        29        31         28        29        28        19
Average interest rate on new loans (2) g/             6.1         7.5        15.0        12.5      14.5      10.8      10.8       10.8      10,9      10.9      11.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)                16.8        14.9         8.9        11.7       9.6       7.4       8.0        7.9       7.4       7,4       7.1
a/ Estimates,
2!  Includes net use of IMF credit (drawings lags repurchases), net use of short-term credit and changes in bilateral
balances.
r! Including gross foreign assets of commercial banks.
dt  External borrowing reported in the historical balance of payments is not consistent with external debt data.
e/ Debt service excludes amortization and interest on export credit extended by Yugoslavia.
T After 1980, includes charges on use of IMF resources.
Public and publicly guaraRteed debts only.
1 ibl9H
EVERA, 10
April 12, 1984



- 27 -
AX, EX II
-age I of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OVERATIN1S IN Y 1OSLAVIA
As of March il, 1134
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
US$ million
Amount (less
Local     Fiscal                                                         cancellations)
Number    Year Borrwer(s)                       Purpose                 Bank  Undisbursed
Forty-five Loans Fully Disbursed                            1534.0
916      1973 Naftagas                         Gas Pipeline             59.4      4.6
1360      1977 Management Organization          Multipurpose:
"Metohija"                      Water                  54.0      17.5
1469      1977 JUGEL and Six Electric Power
Organizations in each         Second Power
each Republic                   Transmission           80.0       2.8
1477      1978 Vojvodjanska Banka               Agric. Credit II         75.0       1.4
1534      1978 Community of Yugoslav
Railways                      Railways                 99.6       0.1
1561      1978 Elektroprivreda Bosnia
Herzegovina                   Hydro Power              73.0       3.4
1561-1 1/ 1984 Elektroprivreda Bosnia           Mostar Hydro
Bosnia Herzegovina              Supplemental Loan      61.0      61.0
1611      1979 Kosovska Banka Pristina          Hydro Power              40.0       5.1
1612      1979 Privredna Banka Sarajevo         Ind. Credit IV           20.0      0.6
1613      1979 Stopanska Banka Skopje           Ind. Credit IV           20.0       1.7
1614      1979 Investiciona Banka Titograd    Ind. Credit IV             20.0      0.9
1621      1979 Privredna Banka Sarajevo         Bosanska Krajina
Agric. and
Agro-Industry        55.0      13.7
1678      1979 Road Organization of Kosovo,
Montenegro, Vojvodina,
Hezegovina and Macedonia      Roads                   148.0      17.8
1756      1980 Zagrebacka Banka                 Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0     25.6
1768      1980 Port of Bar                      Earthquake Rehab.
Port of Bar          35.0        7.7
1769      1980 Railway Organization             Earthquake Rehab.
of Montenegro                   Railways              14.0       3.3
1801      1980 Vojvodjanska Banka               Agric. Credit III       86.0      44.4



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
US$ million
Amount (less
Local     Fiscal                                                          cancellations)
Number    Year Borrwer(s)                        Purpose                 Bank  Undisbursed
1819      1980 Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia
Serbia and Vojvodina           Roads                 125.0       53.1
1909      1981 Kosovska Banka Pristina           Industrial Credit V   50.0        36.7
1910      1981 Privredna Banka Sarajevo          Industrial Credit V   30.0         4.7
1911      1981 Investiciona Banka Titograd    Industrial Credit V   20.0           10.4
1912      1981 Stopanska Banka Skopje            Industrial Credit V   10.0         0.7
19'51     1981 Investbanka                       Agriculture &
Agro-Industries      87.0       66.9
1977      1981 Pristina Railway Transp. Org.  Railways                  34.0       20.7
1993      1981 Kosovska Banka Pristina           Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      90.0       72.3
2'039     1982 Stopanska Banka Skopje            Agriculture             80.0      62.6
2055      1982 Radrna Org. Regional Vodovod    Kosovo Water Supply   41.0          24.1
Z1]32     1982 Privredna Banka Sarajevo          Industrial Credit VI  33.0        24.1
21.33     1982 Stopanska Banka Skopje            Industrial Credit VI  33.0        27.7
2136      1982 Privredna Banka Sarajevo          Agriculture             35.0      29.9
21.61     1982 Privredna Banka Sarajevo          Semberija Drainage    34.6        32.9
2233      1983 Regional Work Organiza-           Tuzla Water Supply    30.0        27.0
tion KOMPRED                     and Environment
2306      1983 Udruzena Kosovska Banka
Pristina                       Kosovo Reg. Dev't.    79.0        78.4
2.307     1983 Udruzena Beogradska Banka         Serbia Reg. Dev't.   136.0       134.7
2326      1983 Udruzena Beogradska Bank          SAL                    275.0     211.3
2336 1/   1984 Zeleznicka Transport
Organization Skopje            Sixth Railway         110.0      110.0
2338 1/   1984 Electroprivreda Bosne
I Hercegovine                  Third Power Trans.   120.0       120.0
2339      1984 Udruzena Kosovska Banka           Industrial Credit
Pristina                         VII                  45.0       44.9
2.340     1984 Investiciona Banka Titograd    Ind. Credit VII            25.0      24.9
Total (less cancellation)                                   4047.6      1429.6
of whicbr has been repaid                                  754.4
Total now outstanding                                       3293.2
Amount sold                      9.2
of which:  Amount repaid         9.2                      -
Total now held by Bank                                      3293.2
Total undisbursed                                                       1429.6
1/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Fiscal                                    Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor               Business          Loan      Equity    Total
1970    International Investment         Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia      Corporation    -            2.0        2.0
1970/   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat       Automotive
1980      S.p.A.                           Industry         12.4       0.6      13.0
1971/   Tovarna Automobilov in           Automotive
1980      Motoriev Maribor (TAM)           Industry
Klockner-Humboldt                                  9.2      0.9       10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler       Automotive
1980      Benz A.G.                        Industry         16.3       0.8      17.1
1972/   Sava Semperit                    Tires              12.5       2.5      15.0
1978/
1980
1973    Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira    Pulp and Paper    70.9          -        70.9
1974    Zelezarna Jesenica/ARMCO         Special Steel      10.0       -        10.0
1974    Salonit Anhovo                   Cement Plant       10.0       -        10.0
1975    RMK Zenica                       Steel              50.0       -        50.0
1977    Frikom RO Industrija Smrnzute  Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                  Processing         4.0      2.4        6.4
1977    Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze    Pulp and Paper
Cazin                           Products          15.6      2.6       18.2
1978    Soko-Mostar                      Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -          7.0
1980    Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                Tourism             21.0      -         21.0
1980    Radoje Dakic                     Machinery          18.7       -        18.7
1980    Eight Republican/Provincial    Small-Scale
Banks                           Enterprises       30.2      -         30.2
1982    Igalo                            Physical
Medicine
Center           15.5      -         15.5
1982    Industrija za automobilski       Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto   Accessories        10.9      -         10.9
1983    LBZB                             Development
Finance          32.2      -         32.2
Total Gross Commitments                            346.4    11.8       358.2
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                        180.8     5.2       172.2
Total commitments held by IFC                      165.6     6.6       172.2
Total undisbursed held by IFC                       51.8     0.8        52.6



30-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
FERTILIZER SECTOR LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           7 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           Federal Committee for
Agriculture and "Agrohemija"
(c)  Project first presented to Bank;         July 1982
(d)  First Bank mission to review project: October 1982
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         May 1983
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:             March 20, 1984
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           September 1, 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions
(a) The agreement between the Borrower, Agrohemija, and the 11
fertilizer producers, concerning the implementation of technical
and energy studies, the availability of fertilizer to the
trading agencies, and the preparation of periodic reports on the
fertilizer sold through retail shops has been duly executed
(paras. 47, 49 and 51).
(b) The agreement between the Borrower, Agrohemija, the fertilizer
producers and the agricultural agrokombinats ensuring the
Borrowers access to foreign exchange, has been duly executed
(para. 37).
(c) The Project Implementation Working Group in Agrohemija has been
established and staff appointed thereto on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 48).



31 -
Disbursement Conditions
On the basis of an exchange of views between Government and the Bank,
release of the second tranche of $40.0 million would be made on
condition that (paras. 43 and 56):
(a)  about 1.5 million tons of fertilizer have been made available
for the domestic market in the fall of 1984 and about 1.7
million tons made available for the spring of 1985;
(b)  about 240,000 tons of fertilizer have been made available to the
trading agencies for sale, on a cash basis, to individual
farmers for the fall 1984 and about 200,000 tons for spring
1985; and
(c)  adequate progress has been made in carrying out the technical
and energy studies.
Others
(a) The Guarantor is to take all necessary steps to achieve the agreed
domestic production targets for 1984-1985 and domestic consumption
targets for 1984-89 and to ensure that the present fertilizer
pricing system for the domestic market is maintained (paras. 35
and 51).
(b) The Borrower is to recycle foreign exchange funds to the
fertilizer industry for purposes of the Bank loan (paras. 37 and
46); for this purpose the Guarantor is to ensure that the Borrower
continues to have access to foreign exchange until June 30, 1989
(para. 37).
(c) By March 31, 1986, concerned fertilizer producers are to complete,
and Agrohemija is to submit to the Bank for review, technical and
energy studies of fertilizer plants to assess their operating and
energy efficiency and to identify measures and investments to
reduce costs. Based on the findings of these studies, an action
plan is to be prepared by December 31, 1986, outlining investments
and other measures required to rehabilitate and restructure
fertilizer production units (para. 47).
(d) The Guarantor is to establish a Loan Implementation Committee to
oversee and coordinate the various aspects of implementation of
the Bank loan (para. 48).
(e) The Guarantor is to ensure that a total of about 680,000 tons of
fertilizer would be made available, during 1984-1985 period, to
individual farmers on a cash basis through retail shops of the
trading agencies (para. 51).



I
I



I0'                   15                                                                                                                                                                                              -                   IBR  17361'1  s'Z     l  ._,_          .HU       
.                                                                                                           A   U A  T  R  I  A  2 A   >   M 5 uss k a _   V  4   >   _   '   < ,   R  C   M   A   NUI  A
,0                       A USTRIA                          R                                                                                                                                                                                      Y -.> . S X X i U A
A                                                   ,,, S T R I.t': A                                                                                                                        R LR
', "'oRXz"vX  E   san-5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,                                                                                                          Beg.
r-.f- J ~~~~~~~~5                                  UGOSLAVIA,   S
'S~~~~~~~~                                                                                     '
...AoO,,  LJAUBL                                                                                                                                         G A  RIA 1
- b k                         Sm; ' &, < I T .r fi ,  A  0                       L'A
0   Ms~~~~~~ 450,       A~~~~~~~~\jLCO     r          AN  A
......7i>t                                                0'"- --                                                                                                                                          R 9           
,INA 5 A-l-o,,No.
TRIEST~~~~~~~~~ K01  }0   Z                                                                                                                       --,                        ,Krgc                                  _          
L.b,,9 |          C                    ',    ,          ,       S                         M girevic<Pca   *SPmSs , s      Z)
t3'                           YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                                                  DE
A    Pysote Deposits                                                                                                                                                                                            O.\ss \_q    d  rDs\.=)Dlec
(    Gos Fields                                                                                                  0b     $         L                              tlvo       0KPem*OosNOe  
_    Moint RBodB                                                        _ _                                        ,;i                                , <   oGostivo, Gb M..
oilroods                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
42x                                      RIBOBesTStttst2peptdv                                                                                                       >>                                                                           vuic
Bo ooundories of Republics tn.........rvtdt slotw5vttrss   ,  tJ  K1vadoAyik M._
ABtosnornous Provin0es                                                                     005505 2asd,s o,s0S9to50  250000ilo>otdnef
- -Internotionol Boundor es                                                                      atnon rn.omnasstneoo                                                                                   Or eveoo    .
05005r900. bODoot.000 di21 0,0lup                                             ~                   
Klt robtPTKes     art. o2plf^3c C1225 500900    P2                            .05<20, 00    KE 00   A  0
504005000SOah ton0 505050 0                                  </0  >ts
IS^'   15                0ig                       7                         IIl         i        .50 .. Y   ,: \ f             2 DU                                                                  G 2 2'        _



