Document of
The World BanL                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2548-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 14, 1979
This document has a restricted dbtribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1979)
Currency Unit         Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           -   Rp 625
Rp 1              5   US$0.0016
Rp 1,000              US$1.60
Rp 1 million          US$1,600
US$ 1 million          Rp 625 million
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI         3  Government of Indonesia
BAPPENAS    -  National Development Planning Board
Cipta Karya -  Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning
and Urban Development
DSE         5  Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
WE          -  Water Enterprise (of the City specified)
WHO         -  World Health Organization
UNICEF      -  United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
PELITA      -  Five Year Development Plan
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia:   April 1 - March 31
Water Enterprises:          January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:              Seven water enterprises serving the cities of Ambon,
Jember, Klaten, Pare-Pare, Purwakarta, Surabaya,
and Tangerang, and the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering of the Ministry of Public Works.
Amount:                     $36 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                      Twenty years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 7.9% p.a.
Relending Terms:            Twenty nine and one-half years, including 5-1/2
years of grace during which payment of interest
is waived, with interest at 9% p.a., except for
the Surabaya Water Enterprise for which the terms
will be 28-1/2 years, including 4-1/2 years of
grace, without waiver of interest, with the same
interest rate. Foreign exchange risk will be
borne by the Government.
Project Description:        The physical component of the project is for the
construction of urban water supply facilities in
each of the beneficiary cities. This would
benefit about 850,000 persons who now have very
poor and unsafe water supplies. In addition the
project would help develop seven semi-autonomous
water enterprises and train staff in management,
accounting and operation; strengthen the project
implementation capacity of government agencies
responsible for the sector; prepare future water
supply projects; improve training institutions;
and foster the concepts of cost recovery and
efficiency pricing in the public sector. The
benefits of the project and the organization,
training and financial safeguards built into the
project are considered sufficient to justify the
risks which include, inter alia, possible imple-
mentation delays, increases in capital costs and
poor performance in collecting water bills.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                         Local   Foreign    Total
------- $ million …
Part A - Water Supply Construction
for Six Cities /1
Civil works                              7.63    3.18       10.81
Equipment and supplies                    1.38   11.02      12.40
Engineering                              1.07    3.53        4.61
Contingencies
Physical                                 1.82    3.19       5.01
Price                                   7.64    3.05       10.69
Land                                     0.27       -        0.27
Total                               19.81   23.98       43.79
Part B - Water Supply Construction
for the City of Surabaya
Civil works                              1.57    0.15        1.72
Equipment and supplies                   0.70    6.33        7.03
Engineering                              0.70    0.19        0.89
Contingencies
Physical                                0.54    1.20        1.74
Price                                   2.22    0.96        3.18
Land                                     0.16       -        0.16
Total                                5.89    8.83       14.73
Part C - Management and Technical
Assistance                                 0.53    1.47       1.99
Part D - Reconnaissance and
Feasibility Studies                        0.40    0.55       0.95
Part E - Training                           1.11    1.18       2.29
Total Project Cost                         27.74   36.00      63.74
Financing:                  The proposed loan of $36 million, which is equivalent
to the full foreign exchange costs of the project,
would meet 56% of the total project cost. Local
costs would be met by the Government and the water
enterprises. Retroactive financing in the amount of
$1.5 million for detailed design engineering which
began in June 1978, is proposed.
/1 The cities: Ambon, Jember, Klaten, Pare-Pare, Purwakarta, Tangerang.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                 ---------- $ million -----------
Bank FY                     1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Annual:                      2.0   3.3  12.3  12.1   5.8   0.5
Cumulative:                  2.0   5.3  17.6  29.7  35.5  36.0
Internal Rate of Return:   The internal rates of return for the seven projects
are: Ambon, 4%; Jember, 5%; Klaten, 5%; Pare-Pare,
6%; Purwakarta, 6%; Surabaya, 6%, Tangerang, 9%.
The aggregate rate of return is 6%.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 1791-IND, dated May 14, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL-BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR THE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $36 million to help
finance the Second Water Supply Project.  The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
About $32.8 million of the loan would be made available by the Government to
seven municipal water enterprises at an interest rate of 9% p.a. The Govern-
ment loans to six enterprises would be repayable over 29-1/2 years, including
a grace period of 5-1/2 years during which payment of interest would be
waived; the loan for the seventh enterprise (Surabaya) would be repayable
over 28-1/2 years, including a grace period of 4-1/2 years for repayment of
principal. The remaining $3.2 million would be used by the Government to
finance technical assistance, studies and training. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress and Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(No. 2093-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979.
The report's main findings are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b) due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances, including
an expected slow-down in the growth of oil production, Indonesia is
now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource position which
will make it more difficult to maintain high levels of income and
employment growth, while at the same time preserving monetary
stability and external balance;
(c)  the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Agri-
cultural Training Project (No. P-2506-IND), circulated under cover of
R 79-75, dated April 12, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors
on April 24, 1979.



-2-
(d) although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80; and
(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era, Indonesia's
long-term development prospects have been significantly enhanced by
the Government's successful population policies which have already
contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%) reduction of
fertility in Java and Bali during the past decade. These crucially
important demographic developments will, in due course, particularly
after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced and declining rates of
growth of the labor force. Declining labor force growth rates and
the prospects of declining income elasticities of demand for food
justify the hope and expectation that with sound policies, Indonesia
can and will eventually - possibly within the next two decades -
overcome the severe poverty and food security problems that still
plague the country today. The solution of these fundamental problems
through the pursuit of a pervasive employment-oriented development
strategy would set the economy firmly on a long-term growth path
towards much higher levels of social and economic development
involving all Indonesians. One of the key components of such a
strategy would be to aim at a high rate of labor-intensive manufac-
turing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the other islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely poor:
in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over 50 million
Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976 prices and
exchange rate).
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remarkably
high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971 and October
1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a very high rate
and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the rate of open
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. As a result of favorable terms of trade developments
during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2 World Bank Atlas (preliminary estimate for 1977: $300).



- 3 -
unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than population in the
relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force participation rates, from
50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was observed. Thus, a substantial
part of the increased per capita consumption levels is believed to have been
related to increased labor force participation and declining dependency ratios.
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over
7% p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricul-
tural sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating
small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor
productivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia,
by the stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in
the world. Employment growth in medium- and large-scale enterprises, which
absorbed the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest. The broad
picture of rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many
respects, thus reveals that a relatively large part of the incremental
employment has been of poor quality in residual types of activities.
6.        Much progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services. Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is
expected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in
1974; dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary
education appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education program
has been introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who
never attended school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others
who left school without completing primary education (a further 22 million).
Indonesia's adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974 which is much higher
than in India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in
Thailand (82%) or the Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in
levels of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist,
but differences between Java and other parts of the country are relatively
small.
7.        In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained
under-utilized due to personnel shortage and a range of other factors,
including popular preference for traditional health care services in several
areas.
8.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita II), which ended in March 1979, were fully met, over 100 million
Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water in 1979.
Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory, especially
in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improvements in
water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed through



- 4 -
Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank Group,
have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded urban
areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living con-
ditions of the urban poor are needed.
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
9.        The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor in
enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effects of
the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues in
local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also increase
as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in terms of
rupiahs should improve strongly. While the recent devaluation will generally
tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to be placed
on the importance of developing effective support services and of reducing
administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost-increasing factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already been
taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 50% on a wide
range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to isolate initially key con-
sumption items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluation. Aside
from the budget's influence on the prices via subsidies, the degree of
monetary control exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing
devaluation-induced inflation. There is likely to be conflict, however,
between the need to contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the
need for additional credit to promote new private investment in line with the
structural objectives of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget
surplus in fiscal 1979/80 almost certainly will be needed to assist in
neutralizing the effect of a sudden sharp increase in the rate of monetary
expansion following the devaluation.
11.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of payments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future; the short-term export response, in particular, is likely to
be constrained by supply rigidities. Ultimately, changes in the size and
structure of imports and exports will be strongly influenced by the effect that
the devaluation will have on the overall growth performance of the economy.
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the past
decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.



- 5 -
Between 1968 and 1977, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food
calorie production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respect-
ively./1 These growth rates reflect a growing import-dependence on rice,
sugar, wheat and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance
of maize, cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of
declining growth rate in rice production due to a combination of poor
weather and pest problems, 1978 showed a large increase in output
(over 10%), but import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in
1977/78, were still about 6% of total domestic consumption.
13.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggests
the likelihood of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for a comprehensive food production and consumption strategy.  In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and swamp
drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential for increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and for improving the local performance of
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice production of around 3.5% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
14.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields of secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low-income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks associated with
excessive rice import-dependency.
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
15.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started in April 1979.
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.6%



- 6 -
16.        As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post-
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and industry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most abundant and
inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected to facilitate
the structural changes that are needed. With improved incentives for an employ-
ment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and institutional
support services for agriculture and small industries, it should in due course
be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the economy to at least 7% or 8%,
which would be a major help in accelerating the further elimination of poverty.
External Aid and Creditworthiness
17.        The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, together with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20%7 in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $2.3 billion in 1978. Most of the decline
was achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have recently begun to soften again, which will be reflected
in future debt service payments.
18.        The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion;
the IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting
of the IGGI in April 1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1979/80
made by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level;
the meeting therefore concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be
approximately met.
19.        The Bank's overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts
indicates that the country will be able to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods and to meet its debt service obliga-
tions. The debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%. Although the
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil and
gas on a net basis.



- 7 -
November 15 Rupiah devaluation will provide a one-time revenue windfall,
the Government will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues
over the coming years if the relatively high rate of domestic investment
already reached is to be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious
in increasing current expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope
for reducing them further; expenditures should, in fact, rise in step with
the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in Government
salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of which is
development-related. In view of the expected increase in the pressure on
public sector resources, and since Indonesia's total external financing
requirements are in excess of the foreign exchange components of the many
projects planned for financing from external sources, a limited measure of
local cost financing is considered justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
20.      As of March 31, 1979, Indonesia had received 40 IDA credits total-
ling $680.8 /2 million, and 37 Bank loans amounting to $1,903.0 million;
IFC investments have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of
1978, these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC Investments as of March 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending., Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the
quality of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education.  In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighbor-
hood improvement programs), urban water supply, family planning, and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
/1 Except for para. 24, substantially unchanged from the President's Report
on the Second Agriculural Training Development Project (No. P-2506-IND),
circulated under cover of R 79-75, dated April 12, 1979, and approved
by the Executive Directors on April 24, 1979.
/2 Includes amounts ($1.1 million) cancelled.



- 8 -
assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through five technical assistance credits and a loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
22.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agricultural production, particularly of food crops.
One of the major objectives of the Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita
III) is to increase employment through programs directed towards improving
the incomes of the poor and their living standards. While several of these
programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will be some
time before they are ready for implementation.  Hlowever, as part of this new
focus, a small enterprise development project, designed to increase non-agricul-
tural employment in rural areas and small towns, has already been approved by
the Executive Directors, and an integrated rural development project should
be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in a few months. With
respect to agriculture development, projects are being prepared to further
improve and expand research and extension services, rehabilitate and expand
irrigation systems, assist in watershed management and village development,
and develop presently underutilized land in areas outside Java for transmigrants
and other smallholders. In addition to the family planning program, which
continues to have high priority, other areas of particular importance for
Bank Group assistance will be the improvement of urban services through
construction of urban water supply systems and further expansion of neighbor-
hood improvement programs, support for industrial development and the improve-
ment and expansion of higher education, particularly of engineers, accountants
and agriculture specialists, as well as primary and nonformal education.
Finally, Bank Group financing continues to be important for the Government's
program of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in
transport and power, which will continue to require very large investments for
many years before these facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's develop-
ment. Compared to past lending activities, many of these projects and programs
reflect the shift of emphasis in the Government's development objectives from
rehabilitation and expansion to a better balanced and more equitable and
employment-oriented economic growth strategy.
23.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968, and between 1968
and 1974 all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has
saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the
November 1978 devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situa-
tions may be difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always
qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low per
capita income and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now
also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without



impairing its ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in
FY78, a portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on
IDA terms.
24.       Although overall project implementation performance in Indonesia is
now about the average for the Bank, the Bank staff and the Government have
become concerned in recent months about the level of disbursements which in
the last year or so has shown a declining trend. Many of the problems seem
to be attributable to cumbersome procedures for procurement and payment of
contracts, including issuance of letters of credit. In other cases, project
specific problems and unfamiliarity of subnational project executing agencies
with procedures also cause difficulties. A number of steps have been taken
by the Government and the Bank in an attempt to address some of these
problems. In the last year, two Bank missions were sent to Indonesia to
analyze and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial
procedures; the Government is now reviewing their reports. The Government
and the Bank are also holding regular joint review meetings in order to
identify project specific as well as more general problems and to work out
corrective measures. The first of these meetings was held in early March this
year in Jakarta on a few selected projects with emphasis on concrete measures
to expedite implementation of the projects reviewed. During the IGGI meeting
in April 1979 the Government announced several ameliorative measures designed
to streamline the more complex budgetary and financial procedures which seem
to affect implementation of almost all projects. Although, as a result of
these initiatives an improvement in implementation performance is now
anticipated, constant follow-up in this area will be necessary in the coming
months.
25.       The proposed loan would be the eleventh lending operation presented
to the Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to
Indonesia this year to $830 million. Projects for rural development and
nucleus estate and smallholder development are expected to be ready for
presentation in the next few months.
PART III - THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Sector Background
26.       Indonesia is rich in both surface and groundwater resources, but
access to water in many places presents difficulties that tend to be under-
estimated. The dry season lasts three or four months; many rivers and
creeks dry out, and springs and shallow wells are affected. Groundwater is
the most important potential source and many cities and villages could take
it from springs and deep wells as a source for piped water supply. But in
urban areas shallow aquifers are frequently polluted by human wastes, and the
boiling of drinking water is a widespread practice.
27.       About 80% (105 million persons according to the 1976 census) of
Indonesia's population live in more than 50,000 rural villages; of these about
4% benefit from piped water systems, tubewells with handpumps, central rain-
water collection or protected springs. Those without access to public schemes



- 10 -
obtain water from streams, springs or wells. About 130 piped water schemes
were planned for the Second Development Plan period (Repelita II, 1974-79); by
the end of 1978 about 88 of those schemes had been completed and the balance
is scheduled for completion by 1981. In the rural sector the Government
provides grants which are earmarked for design and source development; the
Government and UNICEF contribute equipment and materials, and local authorities
make cash contributions or contributions in kind.
28.       It is estimated that about 41% of Indonesia's 24 million urban
population have access to piped water supply, most of which suffers
from low pressure and intermittent supply, and water entering the system
frequently becomes contaminated. Those who do not have access to public
water supply are dependent on dug wells, streams or rivers, with attendant
health risks.
Organizations
29.       Three Ministries of the Government are principally responsible for
the water supply and sewerage sector - the Ministry of Public Works for urban
areas, defined as municipalities with a population larger than 5,000, the
Ministry of Health for rural water systems, and the Ministry of Home Affairs
by virtue of its responsibility for local governments and enterprises. The
Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban Development
(Cipta Karya) of the Ministry of Public Works is in charge of urban water
supply and sewerage.
30.       Cipta Karya, through its Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (DSE),
is the implementing agency for urban water supply and sewerage projects with
functions of project planning and selection, fund allocations, preliminary
and detailed engineering, construction supervision, technical and management
assistance to Water Enterprises (WEs), established as municipal corporations
and, occasionally, operation and maintenance of water supply systems. DSE is
a central agency but one longer-term sector objective is to place greater
responsibility for project implementation with regional and local govern-
ments. Local governments or WEs are responsible for operation and mainten-
ance of water works and for extension of the distribution systems. Local
governments and local government enterprises, such as WEs, fall under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home Affairs.
31.       In recent years confusion had arisen as to the relative responsi-
bilities of DSE and the Ministry of Home Affairs with regard to enforcement
of Government - WE project financing agreement covenants, management assis-
tance and related matters. Under the first Bank-financed water supply project
(Ln. 1049-IND), the Government undertook to issue an inter-departmental
decree which would govern the relations between its agencies, the Ministries
of Public Works, Home Affairs and Finance on the one hand, and the WEs on the
other. The decree was issued in September 1978 and it is expected that it
will result in a more orderly and efficient development of the sector.
Government Policy and Sector Objectives
32.       Up to the mid-1970s the Government planned, designed and built, at
no cost to local governments, water source and treatment facilities, with the
local governments undertaking to provide the distribution systems and service
connections with their own resources. This frequently resulted in completed



- 11 -
source and treatment systems which lacked the means for delivering water to
the consumer.  As a result of recommendations by a Bank mission which visited
Indonesia in 1971, the Government adopted the following policy guidelines
which formed the basis of the first Bank-financed water supply project of 1974:
(a) autonomous WEs would be established to build, jointly with
Government, water systems and then to operate and maintain them;
(b) capital funding would be by loans or a mixture of loans
and equity, instead of grants previously provided; and
(c) investments would be for complete systems including source,
treatment and distribution.
33.       Because of slow progress in reducing the large number of people
still to be provided with safe water, and in compliance with the emphasis of
Repelita III (1979-84) for the equitable distribution of benefits of economic
development, the Government in 1978 modified its policy for urban water
supply. The new policy aims to provide a basic quantity of safe water to as
many people and as rapidly as possible during Repelita III. The first priority
for water supply is to provide to about 60% of the population in each of 10
cities, 40 medium-sized cities and 150 small towns about 60 lpcd to meet their
basic need. This would be accomplished through the expanded use of public
standpipes and standardized low-cost design modules, and would be funded by
nonrepayable Central Government budget allocations (DIP). Supplies in excess
of 60 lpcd, when desired by the community, would be funded with loans from the
Central Government or with equity from the local governments which, in turn,
would be provided with concessional loans from the Central Government. The
Government expects this policy to rapidly yield increased social and economic
benefits. It also believes that with this strategy consumers will be better
motivated, after they have seen improvement in their community water systems
and their minimumn need for safe water has been met, to contribute to Lhe
capital costs of subsequent water supply expansion projects. The new strategy
of the Government is both a major and encouraging step designed to meet the
basic needs of the urban population. However, effective implementation of thie
new strategy will require complementary measures, particularly the development
of appropriate administrative methods for rapidly implementing projects and
preparation of standardized low-cost project packages. Given the past per-
formance of the sector, the planned implementation schedule of the Government
is also probably overly optimistic.
34.       The proposed project was prepared and appraised before the
adoption of the new strategy and its design is based on the guidelines
outlined in para. 32. In order to adapt it to the new strategy the dis-
tribution components of the project have been advanced and expanded so as
to reach the target consumers more rapidly. The project also includes
funds to finance technical assistance components which will help the
Government further develop and implement the new strategy.
Sector Issues
35.       A longer-term objective of the Government is to provide drinking
water to all areas where safe water is not available and which are affected
by waterborne diseases. This would require substantial investment in the



- 12 -
sector. If the Government were to achieve this objective by 1990, as
recommended at the UN Conference on Human Settlements, held in Vancouver in
1976, estimated average expenditures would amount to about $200 million per
year (compared to an investment level of about $45 million in 1977). Despite
large-scale assistance provided to Indonesia by external sources, it will be
difficult to achieve this level of funding because of competing demands from
other sectors.
36.       However, funding is not the only constraint.  The project imple-
mentation capacity of the agencies concerned is weak in relation to the
planned numerous investment projects. The experience of the Five Cities
Water Supply Project (Ln. 1049-IND) bears this out (see paras. 38-39 below).
Inter- and intra-agency communications are weak and procurement and payment
procedures are cumbersome. Particular difficulty is experienced by organi-
zations (such as DSE) which are still fledglings in implementing projects
that are geographically dispersed, involve numerous local and central govern-
ment agencies, and draw upon external fund sources. Project implementation
and the effective operation of completed works are also constrained by the
shortage of trained and experienced personnel to plan and manage projects,
lead local and national institutions, and operate facilities.
37.       The Government plans to strengthen the implementation capacity of
central and provincial agencies by improving coordination among agencies,
upgrading management, staff training and recruitment programs, strengthening
the local consulting industry, and developing standardized design modules for
further water supply investments. As noted above (para. 31), an inter-
departmental decree has been published to address some of these issues.
Furthermore, the Government has drafted a Policy Statement which includes
additional measures for the development of the urban water supply sector
along the above lines. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the
Policy Statement will be adopted and published by December 31, 1979 (Section
4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed project includes funds for
technical assistance and studies to help the Government implement its new
water supply sector development strategy.
Performance Under The First Loan
38.       A Bank loan (Ln. 1049-IND) in the amount of $14.5 million for the
First Water Supply Project, which covers five cities, became effective on
May 21, 1975. The project is about 24 months behind schedule. Initially,
time was lost because of delays in completing final designs and in appointing
consultants for construction supervision. There have been further delays
because the agencies concerned have taken longer than scheduled to evaluate
and award contracts and issue letters of credit. Unfamiliarity with
budgetary and administrative procedures and shortage of qualified staff
are the primary causes of project slippage. The costs are now estimated to
be 30% higher than the appraisal estimate, largely because of inflation.
39.       Delays have also occurred in: (a) transferring staff working on
water supply from local governments to WEs due to uncertainty about retaining
their pension benefits; (b) payment of water bills of government agencies;
(c) the transfer of WEs' internally generated funds as contributions to their
construction programs; and (d) completing the audited financial statements



- 13 -
and audit reports of WEs and sending them to the Bank. Bank staff and
the DSE's management consultants have been working with the Government on
correcting these matters. Most overdue audit reports have now been received
by the Bank. Furthermore, the Government is now making necessary arrangements
for transfer of the WE staffs, the settlement of the unpaid water bills of
government agencies and the transfer of internally generated funds.
As a result of these actions, implementation of the project, which is now in
the construction stage, is expected to improve. Problems specific to this
project were examined during the first project implementation review meeting
referred to in para. 24 above and will be monitored in subsequent meetings.
40.       Under the First Project DSE successfully established financial
and administrative procedures in the WEs and trained WE staff in their use.
But management improvements within DSE have not been fully effective because
of the   heavy workloads on the limited number of staff.  Measures to correct
this under the proposed project include the assignment of a resident management
specialist to DSE (to supplement a second specialist assigned to Cipta Karya
under the Third Urban Loan (Ln. 1653-IND)), the continuation of the services
of management consultants presently funded under the First Project, and
expansion of activities related to staffing and training.
41.       So far the Bank has focused exclusively on the urban component of
the water supply sector but recently a WHO-Bank Cooperative Program mission
visited Indonesia for the purpose of identifying rural water supply projects
suitable for Bank financing. Assistance for rural water supply projects is
being considered for future fiscal years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was prepared by the Government with the help of consul-
tants. A Bank mission appraised it in July 1977. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 1791-IND, dated May 14, 1979) is being distributed separately. Supple-
mentary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington on March 26 through April 6, 1979; Mr. Radinal Mochtar, Director
General of Cipta Karya, Ministry of Public Works, led the Government delegation.
The negotiations were delayed because the Government was to publish, prior to
negotiations, regulations to govern the relationship of government agencies
in the water supply sector. This was done in September 1978. The cost
estimates of the project were also revised after the November 1978 devaluation
of the Rupiah.
Objectives
43.       The objectives of this project are to: (a) provide uninterrupted
potable water service to about 850,000 persons in the cities of Ambon,
Jember, Klaten, Pare-Pare, Purwakarta, Surabaya and Tangerang, who now have,



- 14 -
at best very poor and unsafe water supplies; (b) train staff in management,
accounting and operation; (c) strengthen the project implementation capacity
of DSE; (d) improve training institutions for skilled and semi-skilled
workers and administrative personnel; (e) create six new semi-autonomous
water enterprises; and (f) provide studies for future rural and urban water
supply projects.
Concepts
44.       The project for the development of water supply systems in the six
cities other than Surabaya is the first stage, covering the years 1979
through 1984, of a master plan of works prepared by engineering consultants.
The first stage is designed to meet expected residential, commercial and
industrial demands through 1990; the second stage, through 2000. Two of the
cities at present have no piped water systems; the remaining four have
rudimentary systems, parts of which will be incorporated into the proposed
systems and the remainder abandoned because of obsolescence. The consultants
have recommended initial rehabilitation programs for each of the six cities,
and the Government has agreed to finance and implement these programs in
fiscal years 1978-80 (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The program
consists of repair and modification of those existing facilities which would
be integrated with facilities built under the proposed project, and the
conversion of exploration wells to production wells. For Surabaya, the
project is to expand transmission and distribution capacities to match source
and treatment capacities which were constructed by the Surabaya Water Enterprise
in 1977-78. A feasibility study for the further expansion of source,
treatment and distribution facilities of the Surabaya water supply system is
also included in the proposed project.
45.       The completed facilities would provide 24-hour supply of water,
meeting Indonesian drinking water quality standards which are based essentially
upon WHO International Standards. Water production facilities are designed
for maximum day and distribution systems for peak hour demands. The distri-
bution systems are designed to receive subsequent year by year extensions, as
necessary, to serve additional consumers and areas. All connections would be
metered to permit volumetric pricing and wastage control.
Proposed Facilities
46.       The proposed facilities for the six cities other than Surabaya
would consist of water source development, transmission and distribution
systems, service reservoirs, metered service connections, public standpipes
and bathhouses, fire hydrants, administration buildings, staff houses, shops
and warehouses. For Ambon and Jember, the water sources would be springs and
tubewells; for Klaten, springs; for Pare-Pare, tubewells; and for Purwakarta
and Tangerang, surface water. Water from all sources would be disinfected by
chlorination, and the Purwakarta and Tangerang surface source raw water would
be processed in water treatment plants consisting of rapid mix, flocculation,
sedimentation and rapid sand filtration units. In all cities water would have
to be pumped to a greater or lesser extent (only the Klaten system would be
largely a gravity system). For Ambon, there is some question of the adequacy
of the proposed spring and groundwater sources; these would be further inves-



- 15 -
tigated and if found to be insufficient a system based upon a surface water
source, with rapid sand filtration treatment, would be developed. For Surabaya,
a pre-design study would be undertaken to optimize pipeline routes and diameters
and the choice of pipe materials; the physical work would consist of transmission
pipelines, service connections and public standpipes. In addition to these
physical facilities, the project would provide for engineering consultant
services for design and construction supervision, management and technical
assistance to the WEs and DSE, reconnaissance and feasibility studies for
future water supply projects, and a training program for DSE and WE staffs.
Implementation
47.   (a) The Executing Agency - The Directorate of Sanitary Engineering.
DSE, which would assume overall responsibility for implementing the project,
is also reponsible for the national urban water supply program including
investigation, planning, design and construction supervision of water supply
and sewerage projects. DSE's organizational structure was revamped under the
First Project (Ln. 1049-IND) and is satisfactory.
48.       Under the First Project, management consultants developed procedures
with respect to fund releases for project expenditures, repayments to the
Government, project construction and monitoring the WEs. In order to further
strengthen DSE's capability in this area, agreement was reached that the
Government would assign a management specialist to the Director of DSE. The
services of the DSE specialist would be financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan and would supplement the services provided by a WHO technical
specialist (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       DSE central office staff numbers 140, of which 49 are profession-
als. In addition, there are about 40 professional staff assigned to projects
in the field. There are several engineering vacancies which are difficult
to fill because compensation is relatively low and qualified persons are
in short supply. Management consultants have prepared a staffing plan for
DSE for 1979/80 and agreement was reached with the Government that (a) DSE
would be staffed by September 30, 1979, in accordance with the staffing plan
prepared by the consultants; and (b) thereafter staffing needs would be
reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank and the agreed staffing plan
would be implemented (Section 4.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50. (b) The Beneficiaries - Water Enterprises. A WE has been authorized by
local ordinance as a municipal corporation in each of the seven project
cities. The water works in the four cities (other than Surabaya) with
existing systems have not been transferred to the WEs, but this will be done
at the start of the project.
51.       The implementation of the water supply project will considerably
increase the responsibilities of the WEs. To cope with this, changes in
organization and working procedures recommended by the management consultants
will be introduced during the project period. Each WE will be controlled by
a Supervisory Board to be composed of representatives of the local and
national governments. The Board will appoint a Managing Director who, with



- 16 -
the assistance of the Fins-,ace and Administration Director and the Chief
Engineer, will be responsible for implementing Board policy and for day-to-day
control. The appointment of a Managing Director in each city will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
52.       The WEs have a degree of autonomy from the local governments,
accounting separately for their operations and retaining their own revenues
from which they will meet operating and capital expenditures and debt service.
Understanding has been reached with the Government that (a) all water supply
assets in each of the seven cities will be accounted for in the name of the
WE serving such city and will be under the WE's exclusive control (Section
4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement); and (b) each WE will enter with the
central and local government into a project financing agreement, acceptable
to the Bank, for the related project (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that all
seven project financing agreements have been signed (Section 6.01(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
53.       DSE would require a continuation of the services of management
consultants to assist it in monitoring WE performance and in other operations,
reorganizing the WEs, establishing systems and training WE staff in management,
accounting and finance. The proposed loan provides for three years of such
services, and the engagement of management consultants for the monitoring and
operations portion of the services would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). These
services would be in addition to those of the management specialist to be
assigned directly to the Director of DSE (para. 48).
54.       To complement the training of WE and DSE staff to be carried out by
the management consultants and management specialist, the proposed loan would
additionally support a formal training program which the Government will
prepare and agree with the Bank by March 31, 1980 (Section 3.09 of the draft
Loan Agreement). This program would assist with the development and expansion
of the central training facilities and services currently provided by DSE, but
the main thrust would be directed towards enabling WEs throughout Indonesia to
develop a permanent local training capability, preferably in groups of three
or four geographically proximate WEs. This training approach would focus upon
the more common areas of work among WEs, particularly those concerned with the
operation and maintenance of water production and distribution systems.
Consultancy Services
55.       DSE would be responsible for the implementation of the project in
the seven cities. Since DSE's engineering capacity is overtaxed, a foreign
consulting firm has been engaged for detailed design, tender document pre-
paration and supervision. Consultants would also be employed for the Surabaya
pre-design study and design. The appointment of these consultants would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The selected foreign consulting firms are expected to



- 17 -
subcontract part of the work to local firms but the former will maintain full
responsibility for all work. For the feasibility studies for future water
supply projects, the Government would employ consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank by March 31, 1980 (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
56.       The project contains an estimated 1,500 man-months of engineering,
management and training consulting services two-thirds of which are expected
to be provided by Indonesian personnel. The estimated cost of these services
which include test well drilling and physical contingencies, is $10.9 million.
The man-month costs for Indonesian personnel would range from Rp 460,000-650,000
($750-1,100) and for foreign personnel, $5,500-9,000./1 The Bank and WHO
staff would assist the Government in the preparation of terms of reference
for feasibility studies and in the selection of areas for future projects,
and the Bank staff would help monitor the project works and the training
program.
Cost Estimates
57.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $63.7 million of
which $36.0 million is foreign exchange. Ninety-two percent of the project
cost is for project works and engineering, 4% for management assistance and
studies, and 4% for training. The cost estimates include allowances for
physical contingencies amounting to about 18% and price contingencies of
about 31% of the base cost, including physical contingencies. Price con-
tingencies applied to the March 1979 base prices. The cost estimates do not
include any duties or taxes on imported goods financed under the proposed loan
since projects financed by foreign assistance are exempt from such charges.
Financing
58.       The proposed loan of $36.0 million, representing the full foreign
exchange cost, would finance about 56% of the total project cost. In view of
the urgency to commence the project, detailed engineering began in June 1978.
It is proposed that the Bank reimburse retroactively expenditures after June
1, 1978 for consultant services. The total retroactive financing involved
will not exceed $1.5 million.
59.       The capital requirements for the subprojects other than the Surabaya
subproject would be financed as follows: 52% from the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan, 3% from Central Government loans, 31% from Central Government
through the local Governments as equity, 11% by internal cash generation from
WE operations, and 3% from consumer contributions for service connections.
/1 Includes salary, pension and sick leave benefits, fee, overseas allowance
and housing; excludes travel.



- 18 -
60.       The proceeds of the Bank loan, together with other Government
funds, will be loaned by the Government to the WEs (other than the Surabaya
WE) at an annual interest rate of 9%, repayable in equal payments of principal
and interest over 29-1/2 years, including a grace period of approximately
5-1/2 years /1 during which payment of interest will be waived. For the sub-
project in Surabaya, the Government will lend to the WE at an annual interest
rate of 9%, repayable in equal payments of principal and interest over 28-1/2
years, including a grace period of approximately 4-1/2 years /1 for the payment
of principal (Section 3.03(c)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). The ratio of
loans to equity made available by the Government to the WEs (other than Surabaya
WE) will be 60:40, in the case of Purwakarta 50:50. For the Surabaya WE, the
Government loan (from the proceeds of the Bank loan) will be about 60% of
subproject cost and 40% is expected to be from cash generated by the WE. The
Government will bear the foreign exchange risk on the funds made available to
the WEs. All these terms will be specified in a project financing agreement
the Government will sign with each WE and local Government prior to loan effect-
iveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The annual domestic
rate of inflation in Indonesia has moderated in recent years from about 20% in
1975 to 14% in 1976, 12% in 1977 and 8% in 1978 but after the November 1978
devaluation it is expected to increase in the medium term. Interest rates
charged by domestic lending institutions for types of loans broadly similar
to those in the water supply sector are currently about 12-15%. The proposed
terms of relending, including the interest rate of 9%, and the waiver of
interest during the grace period with respect to the WEs other than the
Surabaya WE, are nevertheless considered to be appropriate and follow the
pattern adopted for the First Water Supply Project (Ln. 1049-IND). More
stringent relending terms would result in larger debt service, requiring
increases in water rates beyond levels which consumers could afford to pay or
would require an increase in the amounts to be made available to the WEs as
equity.
Procurement
61.       DSE would be in charge of all procurement.  Materials and equipment
contracts estimated to exceed $50,000 and financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan (with a total value of about $25 million) would be procured
following international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. These contracts will be grouped conveniently to attract a wide
range of manufacturers and to get the advantages of bulk deliveries. For bid
comparisons, a domestic preference of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the applicable
custom duties, whichever is lower, will be allowed. Local manufacturers are
expected to compete for the supply of items such as PVC and asbestos pipes
which would cost about $3.5 million.  Off-the-shelf items costing less
than $10,000 each and in aggregate up to $200,000 would be purchased under
reasonable and competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for
materials and equipment up to $50,000 with an aggregate total of $500,000
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
following Government's procurement procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts for materials and equipment estimated to cost $100,000 or
more would be submitted to the Bank for review before bidding and award.
/1 Corresponds roughly to the construction period of the subproject.



- 19 -
62.       The total value of civil works is estimated at about $20 million.
Contracts would generally range in value from $100,000 to $1 million (with
the exception of one contract which may exceed $2 million) and the smaller
ones would be grouped to form attractive bid packages. Because of the size
of contracts and the dispersed nature of works involved, contracts for civil
works estimated to cost less than $1 million each would be awarded following
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank. Indonesia has a well-developed construction
industry and foreign firms not already established in the country are not
likely to bid on these contracts, but foreign firms or joint ventures meeting
the requirements for doing business in Indonesia would be free to participate.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost in excess of $1 million would be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
guidelines and those estimated to cost in excess of $300,000 would be submitted
to the Bank for review before bidding and award. Due to the complexity of
the procedures involved and in view of the large number of small and geo-
graphically dispersed contracts, disbursements from the proposed loan would
be made only against civil works contracts costing in excess of $300,000.
Disbursement
63.       The loan would be disbursed over the period 1979-84.  Disbursements
would be made against: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported
equipment, or 95% of exfactory cost of locally manufactured equipment procured
by international bidding; (b) 65% of local expenditures for imported equip-
ment procured locally; (c) 50% of the total cost of civil works contracts
costing in excess of $300,000; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of
local expenditures for consultants; and (e) 100% of the cost of overseas
fellowships and 50% of the cost of local fellowships.
Water Rates
64.       For the WEs other than Surabaya, no significant increase will be
made in the present level of water rates during the years 1979 and 1980
because in these cities water supply service is presently deficient and will
not be improved until the initial rehabilitation program is complete (para.
44). However, the Government has assured that during 1980 and 1981 the
average water rates in the project cities, other than Surabaya, will be
maintained or increased to levels acceptable to the Bank and that the WEs
will be provided with sufficient funds to meet their obligations. The
Government has also agreed that after 1981 the necessary steps, including
increases in water rates, will be taken to enable the WEs to produce gradually
the revenues needed to cover increasing operating expenses, to make modest
constributions to the construction program and to generate by 1985 (1987 in
the case of Purwakarta) sufficient funds to provide a 6% rate of return on
the value of their net fixed assets in operation (Section 4.04(g) and (h) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The increases in the level of water rates will
take into account the ability of the consumers to pay.
65.       For Surabaya, the WE will increase its water rates to provide
revenues at least sufficient to cover its operating expenses, including
depreciation calculated on revalued net fixed assets in operation, and debt
service in excess of depreciation (Section 4.04(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
66.       In establishing water rates and conditions of service, the Govern-
ment has agreed that WEs will apply the Government's guidelines for national
standard water rate structures; consumers of water from standpipes will pay
no more than the lowest residential rates, and lower-income consumers taking
service connections will be permitted to pay for them in installments over a
period of five years (Sections 4.06 and 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Future Finances
67.       On the basis of the financial projections, the WEs other than
Surabaya would generate sufficient cash to finance about 11% of the construc-
tion program and to provide working capital and some additional cash funds at
the end of the project period. The Surabaya WE would generate funds for
about 40% of its construction program. In viewing future finances, the basis
for Government's policy of financing water supply projects primarily by loans
rather than equity should be noted. The central feature of this policy is
that repayment of loans to the Government by beneficiaries would facilitate
the financing of other essential programs in Indonesia, including the water
supplies of other cities. The policy would also preserve in the local govern-
ments an equity ownership in the water works and the primary responsibility
for their success. There will be gradual improvement in the finances of the
WEs as the measures included in the proposed project are implemented.
Monitoring of Performance
68.       Each WE's financial performance and compliance with the clauses
of project financing agreements would be regularly monitored by DSE, the
Ministry of Home Affairs with the assistance of the management consultants.
In cases of noncompliance, corrective action would be taken by DSE, the
Ministry of Home Affairs and, when applicable, the Ministry of Finance or
other appropriate Government agencies. During project execution performance
indicators would be monitored to measure achievements of the technical and
financial goals and these would be reported to the Bank on a periodic basis.
The Government has agreed that any noncompliance with the project financing
agreement clauses will be remedied promptly (Section 3.03(e) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Economic Aspects
69.       Pricing.  The average rates charged for water are less than the
average incremental cost. However, the rate structure provides that consumers
of large volumes are generally charged incremental costs, thereby discouraging
inefficient consumption. The revenues collected from large volume consumers
permit poorer small volume consumers to enjoy water services at prices which
are below costs without impairing the financial viability of the WE.
70.       Internal Rate of Return.  In calculating the internal rate of
return, benefits have been taken as the incremental revenues earned as a
consequence of the project. Costs include the capital costs relating to the
project and the incremental operating expenses necessary to bring the project
facilities to full utilization. The internal rates of return for the project
are: Ambon, 4%; Jember, 5%; Klaten, 5%; Pare-Pare, 6%; Purwakarta, 6%;



- 21 -
Surabaya, 6%; Tangerang, 9%. The aggregate rate of return is 6%. The
calculated returns are lower than the expected economic benefits because
unquantifiable benefits of the project, such as improved health and living
conditions, are not fully reflected in the prices charged for water service.
Environmental Aspects
71.       By introducing or expanding the provision of potable water to
substantial proportions of the populations the project will result in improved
personal sanitation and convenience and reduced fire hazards. The additional
water will increase wastewater quantities and these will have to be disposed
of properly. None of the cities have sewers, and drainage facilities are
generally in need of expansion and rehabilitation.
72.       The need for wastewater facilities is expected to receive recogni-
tion for the first time in Repelita III (1979-84) wherein agencies will be
authorized to plan such facilities. Since wastewater removal technology is
simple and requires largely indigenous materials, local government initiatives
would be relied upon to alleviate wastewater problems. This will free
over-burdened Government's staff to continue their more important work of
bringing potable water service to those who do not have it. As the sector
matures, the scope of subsequent Bank loans should be progessively expanded
to include wastewater, drainage and solid waste activities. This will
require clarification of institutional responsibilities and the develop-
ment of local government agencies so they can bear the bulk of preparation
and implementation work. Meanwhile, the Bank is working with the Government
on the identification, development and diffusion of low cost waste disposal
systems under research project RPO 671-46, Appropriate Technology for Water
Supply and Waste Disposal.
Benefits and Risks
73.       In Indonesia about 65% of the urban population of 24 million are at
or below the absolute poverty level of $194 (1976 prices). The facilities to
be built under the project are designed to ensure service to the poor; of the
estimated 850,000 people served by the project at least 500,000 would be
urban poor. Moreover, about 1,700 man-years of unskilled jobs would be
created during construction of the project.
74.       The cost of water supply projects and operations in Indonesia
relative to neighboring countries is generally above the norm. This is due
to physical remoteness, transport costs and delays and larger import needs.
On the other hand, Indonesian household incomes are generally lower than in
neighboring countries. Thus the Indonesian water consumers are squeezed
between high costs and low incomes. Additionally, experience on the First
Project indicates the possibility of delay in project completion. Finally,
the water enterprises are newly formed and inexperienced in administration
and operations.



- 22 -
75.       Thus, project risks are higher than in comparable projects in
neighboring countries: increases in capital costs, delays, consumers not
quickly taking house connections, poor performance on collections as water
bills increase, difficulties in meeting financial targets, and higher than
projected operating expenses are all possibilities. Nonetheless the benefits
of this project coupled with the measures it contains for organizational
strengthening, training and financial safeguards, are considered to be
sufficient to take the risks. A further aspect of the proposed loan is that
it would become effective later in the project cycle than the first loan
(Ln. 1049-IND) because final designs are now in progress.  The experience
gained under the First Project should also help in solving possible
difficulties. It should be noted that by having adopted a new sector
development strategy which emphasizes greater reliance on public standpipes
and low-cost design modules the Government is endeavoring to reduce the
costs of water operations to the consumers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
77.       Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the appointment of the general manager of each Water Enterprise; (b)
signing of the project financing agreements between the Central Government,
local Government and each Water Enterprise; and (c) the appointment of
engineering consultants for supervision of construction and of management
consultants for DSE.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                            by I.P.M. Cargill
May 14, 1979
Washington, D.C.



23  -                                            ALNEFX  I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RIFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGVES
INDONESIA
LAND AREA (THnOuSAND SQ. KM.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1904.3                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HICIIER
ACRICULTURAL     281.8                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION Le  GROUP /d    GROUP /I
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  70.0       140.0    300.0            616.0       182.9       432.3
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIIOGRA4S OF CUAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0       120.0     178.0           522.0       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL FIPULATION. Hin-YEAR
( m.L IONS)                       94.7       117.6     133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9        17.5      17.9            30.1        15.0        24.2
POPU LATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       50.0        62.0      70.0           156.8       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULTURAL LAND    337.0       419.0     470.0           794.8       254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.1 Lf    44.0       42.1            40.8       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                         55.3 /f     53.5      55.1            55.4       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6 Lf      2.5       2.8             3.2        2.9          3.0
PO?ULATIIO GROWTR RATE (PERCENT)
- OTAL                             2.1         2.0       2.0             2.3        2.4          2.7
JRBAN                               ..         3.7 L     2.6             5.1        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0         45.9      40.3            34.6       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    25.4         20.6      19.9             8.7        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         3.2       2.5             2.6         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       181.1   1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         0.2      13.7            22.1        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-I00)             96.5       100.0     102.7           106.8       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   89.0        91.0      98.0            108.7       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        43.0      43.8            57.7        50.0        56.8
OF IIHICH ANIKAL AND PULSE      15.0 /h     14.0      16.6             17.0       13.9        17.5
CILLD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..          ..        ..              4.0         ..         7.5
-IEA TH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT RIRTH (YEARS)    47.5        45.0      45.3            59.0        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          125.0 /f.i    ..      116.0             44.0      102.7        82.5
AOCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          3.0      11.0            21.9        26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..        10.0      41.0             58.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                               ..         1.0       4.0             9.8        14.1        18.2
AOCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        12.0      15.0             28.6       16.1        37.5
NRBAlr                              ..        50.0      60.0            66.6        65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..         4.0       5.0             14.8        3.4        25.4
POPULATIoN PER PHYSICIAN         41380.0 /L  26830.0   16930.0          4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON         ..      7770.0 LI 7310.0 LI        1520.2     6983.3      2762.5
POPUIATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1370.0      1670.0    1430.0           657.1      1157.6       786.5
XtaAN                               ..      1130.0        ..            145.5      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..      1890.0        ..           1011.8     1348.3      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..             19.0       19.5        19.2
ROUSING
AvERACE SIZE OFr IOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         4.8        *               5.2        5.2
URBAN                              4.9         5.3        ..              5.2        *.8
RURAL                              4.3         4.7        ..              5.4        5.3
AVERAE NMDER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          .5        .
RURAL                                          1.6        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                          *                         39.1       25.9        28.3
URBIAN
RURAL                                                                                S.7        10.3



- 24 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESiA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                               __
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAMF.    NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTt[ATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 67.0         75.0      81.0             95.6        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                55.0        70.0       75.0             93.7       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0         15.0      18.0             43.3        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 3.0        11.0       13.0             38.6        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0          22.0      21.0             11.3         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         29.0      30.0             30.0        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          14.0         13.0      15.0             25.4        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        47.0 /k      59.0      62.0 /k           84.0       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
FASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          2.0       3.0              9.3         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0           ..      39.0             97.6        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.7        ..             21.8         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          ..       16.0            25.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..             4.6         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0       44200.0   48430.0 L.
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.9         31.0      34.2             33.2        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              75.0         69.0      60.1             48.4        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.4          9.7       8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.1         49.9      52.6             38.9        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  79.8        68.7       73.8             48.6       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               29.4         32.1      36.8             28.4        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.3        1.2              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        33.7 /       ..            17.3        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.0 /                     45.6        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          6.8  m      *-             6.5         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         17.3 /m      ..            17.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     125.0            140.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      95.0            112.8        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      55.0             76.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0             27.7        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      59.0             40.4        48.0         36.7
Not a.-ilable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicacor are population-wei[hted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabillity of data and is not uniform.
Lb    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia * Pacific;   /d  Lor Income (S280 or less per capita 1976); Le  Lower Middle Income ($281-550
per capita. 1976);   /f  Excludes W. Irian;   j   1961-71;   /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;   /I  Including
midwives;   /k  Aged t0 years and over;   /I Excludes rural areas in East Nuss Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jays;  /n  Income recipients.
September 1978



- 25  -                                           ~~~~~ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 5
DEPINrTIONSiO 90 sCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Aitlth-gh she' data ate drow  frn soucegeerlly Judged the .oet authoritative end reliable, it should alo  he noted that they na  no:t he inte-
naiual -Fotp.abe becueo  telc   f standardized definitions and concPts used by difforent coun.tries In rotiectIog the data.  The dta are,nne5tas
useful to desribe orders of nagitude. indicate trends. and charauterice certain maJor differeoce. between .. esteiee.
The od tond;rocsrso  fo  eac  indcatr are popolation-umightad geomtric  ane.e  encioding the neren  calves of the indicator end the moat
populated tontyInchgru.Cvre   of                       onretee  -ea   the indinstorn depend. an eviluhiiy of daaadi  cut uniform.  Due re lank of data,
grou P  -corgee foe capital Supu    .oliporrers and indicators ofattest  toatr.and encreta diapua.sl, ho...ing. income diatribotiom and p-cety are
am-ple P.puiutimo--igbted gouecrir means airhoor the  alao  of-i          ntnatriss
LAND_AREA (thousad.sq. be)1                                                            Percolation Par honnital bed - tetal, ocben. end rural - PopIste  (tetl.
Tutal - TrIal surfac  urea cupriing land area and inandctr,ubn   and roral) divided bp their respectiv  nuberohsItalbde
AgrLiroctu -. fot  eent entioate oi ogricolorIrea useed tenporarily                      available in pablic end private general and operlaliof hospit   aled re-
aporeane-tly foe crops, panrues, macbet end kitchen gardens oc n                      habilitation center..  NusPitu1s ar  ensht.beohr-t  p-rasetly staffed by
lie fallor.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at last one physician.  tEtabliohb..nts providieg principally rstsd ia.2
tacareract innlodod.  liural hospitals. h--ove, include bealth end cali-
fiNl PER CAPT  (II- SNP Per napira estimaten at torrent market prices.,                   nelete   not permanently staffed by a Physicist (but by a medical Ca-
nalculotnd by name u--ncies  ethod as world honk Ails. (1975-77 basial;                sistast, nurs, midwife, em.) which offes la-panttent acusamdstiun end
1960. 1970, and 1177 data,                                                             provide a limited rosin of sed ital.facilities.
Adm,:ismen  pen ""P itl Ibud - Total number of edeissiono to or dischargea
ENERGYt COSlIlIPil  Pit CAPITA - Ansual coneomptico of nemercial energy                   fum  bespinala divided by the number ef beds.
(reel en.d lIgnite, petroleum natuals gee and hydro-.. nuclear and ge-
thernuI e1ecteinity) in kilograms of tool equivalent per capita.                  MiOUSIN
Al..so  esef hounebho1d (cennsnr bous..hold) -<total.  bra.  sdrrl
1POILATICIO  ANl VITAL STATISTICS                                                         A hoose1hod e..s..iet  ef a group sf istdividuals who share  12 li ing quatersi
Total  unuluict, ad-yea  (nillenol I beofJly iif set avilable.               med ibi  ml eas    boarde  or -ledger say or say eon be  nlddt
averag  of tw  end-yar eatnatom;1960,  970,' and 19i77.date.               th.be hoshld for atenitIel purposes.  Itetiaticel definitions of house-
Urban ocaeit  cr t of ental - Ratio of orban no gera  popuis-                            held nary.
tisn; dii in.ct de_finitions of urba  crass ma  affect comporebility               Average nubec of nesn   e   os-ttl   ra,adcrl-ieaerm
of dots am.n  couatrele.                                                              her of Pac..n. Pee insi   l,mbe,sdrrlecpidcnetoa
PPoputlecin denito                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  ileellIesg esolode mue-p.retma..t structures and
fee  no. km.- Mid-yeac papulation per square kilemtrr (100 hactares)                  umoctespied parts.
ofttlarea.                                                                     Acteas to  1eletricity (tement of dmelliusms) - total, ech.,. end rural -
Pns.hsagrinulture land - Computed as above for agricultural lend                Comvescional dwmllings with alenteicity Is living quanic..s as Percen.tage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban. and coral dwellings respectively.
Populatioag  struture (   cers5.t  - inIldeen (0-i4 yeers), working-age
(15-hi years) , aed retired (65 years and omer) as Percentagea of mid-            EDUCATION
year  pupleti-n.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment cetius
ouotn rcueth cain (percent) -  ,told, and urban - Cospeund aonnsal              Primar  school - tota.l. od female - Total and female  nolmn  of all ages
gen-tb, rato- o  totnl end urban old-year Pupuletious tor 1950-h0,                    at the primary level as iper-entages ml respectively primay  cnhool-ese
1960-10, and 1970-75.                                                                 populatti..e; nernally ienladee children aged 6-11 yea-a bar adjusted Soc
Crude birth rate (per th-osad). - Aonuul live bir ths per thousand of                    diffecest lengths of primary edutegion; fnr sunuttlee withunvra   de-
mid-year pupolutiun; tes-y-r at Ith-twi. -_erui   en ding Is 1960 end                 n. atio  enrollment nay eoorad liD  pe-cent since san  pupils ere heist, or
1970 and rIce-pear soeruge ending in 1975 tee mont recent estimate,                   aboet  the official arbool age.
Cruddet,re (Pen thco-ndl - Annual deaths Per rhoua&nd of mid-                         Secondary ehoot - total, end femle - Computed as above; secnodary eduna-
year pogulation; te-yanoith.etin aeveies eud ieg in 1960 ond 19701                    Lion requires at leas.t four years of Approved primary Instruntion  pro-
and flo_e-per uvecgo ending In 1975 fec most recen.t estimate,                        rides genacal vocational. or ieenher training instructions fnr pupila
O9r,ec -p-rductico rate - Averg. ember of daughters a ouflo will bear                    usually of 12 ta 17 years of age; cerceepnndence course  are generally
in bec normal ospnoductive period If she experiescen present age-                     "ealuded.
specIfic fortIIity rates; ...oelly fice-year averogeo ending in 1960,               Vocational enrollmert  Percnent of serdaryI - Vecatfenel Institutionsa In-
1970, sod 1975.                                                                       elude resboieal, indutriol,  Srtbd   enrm  which opecate independsntly
Famiy dacIng- .ucetors. ----alI thousuode  - Annoal  uenher of                      or as departmants of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birtb-cotrrol devioeu under auspinem  of national family              FPacl-te-schr ratin-Werm-Y. and secodry-Total students enrolled in
Plosieg Progrm.ptieary and seOnda ry lerels divide  by onobera ef techers is thecrs
macrnd  ameoof  hild-bearing age (15-44 pars) woh  use birth-control         Adult literacy rate (percent) - Litera.te adults (able to reed  and wrlelm
devices to oIl matrried wome  is ease  gs. group,                                     a percentage, of total adult populatiou aged 12 years and ever.
POOD ill_ TKITblLCd                                                                  CONSUMlPTIONi
Ind.. ci food.pcodu!ctiun Per capia(911) -loden number of per                        Passenger cars leer thousand nopuletienl - Psassenger care comprise meter care
capIt.a.unuo  production of all food commodities,                                   seating lesa than eight persons: e-cldes ambulances, hearses and military
per ounce Supg   of nalorie. _(ererot ci_reoulroeent.l    Competed from               vehitles.
ecrf  equivolonr of nor iced supplies available in coun try per capita           Radieo ivc   ( per rhnadpplto)-ilrpeo   eevr    redi
pen day.  A-aileble suppliee comprise din.c.tic production, imports Iesa             racsst   eea  phublic  oper theisen  o l   y. f pooelm  enldestunlicensed
enborte. anchangea iu  tcouk.  Net supplies enolode animal feed, seeds,             receivers in co-nreiee end in years wher registration of radio ant  was in
qcoite  ne ed in fond p.....sin , end lo..a. Is distribution.  R.e-                effect; dsra fee r.eat years may not be cumporabl  since most coun tries
quleesenetn cone estimated by FAOl bsned on physilslgicr .. meda faor so-           abolished liceneing.
ma  act,ivty and health considering eitsioonemnti. tespeouta-.. t.-;               TV rccivers (ter th2uard onulaion  - TV receivers faor broadcust tm gene.rA
weights, aeg  and  -e  giotribstinew of populativn, and allowing 11 per-               public per thousand population; seeledee nmlicensed TY receivers inno-
-teo inc wate at household 1I'ol                                                       trie. and in yearn when registration ef TV soet was in effect.
Per ranits Susly of pntInic  gram  capr dadl - Protein content of per                N- liwpae  .irua           .. (     thous.and nuoulatiro  - ihows ths  -oeruge cirncia-
cpita met supply of fond per day.  Net supply of food ie defined easte of"algnrl   seetnwpprc  define  sa  sindicul puhil-
above.   eqoiroecoctafor all countrfes establishedby USDA pronlde foe                 catien devoted primarily to recording gene ranes    It is cosnidered to
a minimum .allwance  f 60 gsens of to taltProtein Per day and 20 grams                be mdsily` If it appears or loot foonrtimes a wek.
mf.anImal and pulse protein. of which 10 gene- should be animal protein.           Cinma amnual attendance per capita_pey year -  aScrd en the number of tickets
Thes  'tsederdn are Iner thee tbmac of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year. including admissions to drive-Is cinema. and mobile
23 geama of an imal protein as so arege fur the world, proposed  by                  mls
PAOl ih,b Thrir forld Feud Survey.
per Capita crotein  aplfroanmlndsam-Protein eupply of feed                          EMPLOYMEN'T
derived f-e  animals  and poises ie grmam  per day.                                Total labor force (to...sand.) - feoneically active persons. includiog armed
C:hild (aces 1I;4 mettulity race (proethoeandl - Annual deaths per those-                Eacee. and soemployad bat secludieg heusaives,  students, etc.  Defiain-
andiag  group 1-4 ye..s, to children In this age group.                             times is serious countries ace net comparable.
Female (accent)    eaelbrfrea  percentsge of torel labor force.
WEALTH                                                                                Atieatre (percet             b abr  fores ifaming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life epp ctae  at birth (voor) -_Avorags asmber of years of life                         as Percentage oft'otal labor force.
ramisin  at birth; osually five-year avsrages ending In 1960, 197D,                induatry fcercentl - Labor force Is mining, comnstruction, maufafeturing and
-ed 1975.                                                                             elacteiciry. watee and sea as pec-etag  of total labor forc..
Infant motalIty  !tat  (peo trod    A--Anua  deaths ot Intent  under                 Partelsatis.  rate foer-ant  - reatl, male, and female - Total, maim, and
one year of age per thos..nod live birhts.                                             female labor force. as percemtagna of their respontive populatiems.
Access to safe water(eretofpplaim   - total, urban, end rural -                          Thsar   t'adocdpriptmeaenefcigae-s
gubrof  Peopl  (tetal. urban, end rural) with r.seoable stress. to                 sterteruc  oftePep tius. edftang rtse trend.
a              sa~~Pft ester wupplp (includes treated surfac  wrrsoretrested bat                   ioEmi  eedryetin - Ra.   of poplation under 15 and 65 sad ever to
..contemimated water suc h so that from protected boreheles  spins,b lab- orLoce 1e age gruop of 15-69 years.
and senitey wello) a. perec-tuges of their respective populations.
1e ae urban area a poblic  onane ..tamdpmst located menor eeIlTNreul DIlTolgyTliOf
cthan 200 materm from a honen may ho considered as baling within re.-              Percen.tage of Prl'eatn income (both io cash and bind) received by riches  S
seeable, access of that house.  Is rural  r.s. reasonable acess. would                 p-erret, richor 20 purecse  paurear 20 percent, sod ponret hO pecOantr
imply that rho ho..seu,ife or -ombre.  of the household do net bees to                 of hoseeholds.
spend adu'proportionane pact of ths day in fetching the fenily'e
water meds.                                                                       POVERTfl TARCIF  GRillPS
coe      o.    f pepu(ea.ubn   n   ao)sre   yscesAbsolnts puorrty insuse level is that income LenaI below which a minimal1
dlsponl  n  oretun  oth ir cepection populations.  Eteetst                             emtrioiomally mdequate dint plea ea...stiol mo-fend esquica....ta ie sat
dispoeI -       no iudethu  1u ctien end disposal, with or vithaut                     affordable.
treeaeo,  f bs   o tdo  end wata-eater by water-borne systems                      letimaced relation co-rty looms evel(10$ e.,ar ceet   - urhun and erurl-
or rho ann of pit prvlea nod similar Installaticons                                     Weattve pevecty I..... level in that inc-n  ive  lose than one:-third
?gpyAosfŽterpyuisaa -Popelation divided by number of Practicing                   pan .apits p.c..... Iiuse of thu necctcy.
pby,icionu. qoulifiod frem  a mdica1 school at unicersicy lavel.                    Estimated population beloc povertyi-som   level (ren)-  ra   and rural1
Poculaicngfrurmiourori-      -  opieiu  dli"dod by mumbar of                          Paroren of population furbus aid rura) she are either "hcepn"o
prc.tlicin   mule and female1 graduate osursas, prootice1 ru  es nd                    tmrelative Pa.0  which.eve  i  grea.te.t
Ositoot  .rutu..
Ecesemic and Isuiel Data Divtoion
Enm eAna1pis end P-jani.on. DPep -ees



- 26-                                     ANNEX If 
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977 -                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ MIan       %                         1960-65            1965-70         1971-77
ONP at Market Prices           44,386       100.0                           1.9                4.9            7.8
Gross Domestic Investment       8,667         19.5                          3.3               11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving           8,448         19.0                          5.8                5.1           16.9
Current Account Balance       -   725     -   1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           7,592         17.1                          1.5                7.8           10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           7,489         16.9                         0.2                10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
2/
Value Added                    Labor Force-                    V. A. Per Worker
VS$ Mln.       r                  min         %                    US-$E
Agriculture                    11,624      31.1                  35.3      62.6                   329          49.7
Industry                       12,672      33.9                   4.7       8.3                 2,696        407.3
Services                       13,043      35.0                  13.4      23.8                   973         147.0
Unallocated                      -            -                   3.0        5.3
Total/Average            ._.__
77339      100.0                  56.4     10.O O7'                            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp. Billion)      _                                      of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                           1976                 1977
Current Receipts               2,877               3,535                            18.6                 18.6
Current Expenditure            1,610               2.149                            10.4                 11.3
Current Surplus                1,267_              1.387                             8.2                  7.3
Capital Expenditures           2,044               2,157                            13.2                 11.3
External Assistance (net)        784                 773                             5.0                  4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                                 1973         1974         1975         1976        1977
TVllion'tp  outstanding end periodT-
Money and Quasi Money                        695           987       1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                 129          153          209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                524          932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers:)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             15.2          14.6        14.8         16.3         17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100)             807        1;928'       1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                           25.7          27A         33.3         19.7         14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                -14.0           18.6        36.6        473.7         -6.2        -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                 65.3         77.9       - 27.2         16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTEs All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  IUnallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not aailable
not applicable
Fast Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



ANNEX I
- 27 -                              Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976     1977(Provisional)                                   US SHlMn    7
(Millions US $)
Exports:                      4,738   6.183    7.592                Oil                               2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                   2,921   3,567    4,243                Timber                              605      11.9
Non oil                     1,817   2,216    3,349                Rubber                              461       9.1
Imports                      -5,533  -6,352   -7,489                Palm Oil                             117      2.3
Resource Gap               -  795  -  169       103               Tin                                  107      2.1
Factor service:              -  462  -  646   -  828                Coffee                               104      2.0
Interest                   -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income          -  284 --  284   -  355                 All other comzodities              791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8T5- -  7=                          Total                      5         100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       497     329       286              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              2,395   2,327    1,988                                                          US $ Mln
Amortization              -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                   2,073   1,702    1,162                 Public Debt, inel. guaranteed              11,391
Capital Grants                  ..      ..        ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)          -2,250  -  205   )44                    Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            -   46  - .604   )   7/21
Increase in Reserves (+)   -  983       736    1,197               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977- -
Gross Reserves (end year)       590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)       490   1,226    2,423                 Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        93     119        28
of which:  Petroleum         89     114        26                  I
Exports
of which:  Petroleum      2,921   3,567    4,243         IBRD/IDA LENDING.(March 31. 1979)(Million US $):
?ATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                       IBRD         IDA
2/               outstanding & Disbursed              616.4       454.1
Through    Aug. 1971           Since  -  1971                  Undisbursed                        1,286.6       185.6
US 51.O0RP   375               US $ 1.00- Rp 415               outstanding inc. Undisbursed    1,903.0          679.7
Rp   1000   US $2.67           R.p  J000 = US $2.41
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 - Rp 625
Rp 1000 - US$ 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia X Pacific Programs
March 31, 1979



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.  STATEMFNT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CRFDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
llS$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                       Bank   IDA  IJndishursed
One Loan and seventeen Credits fully disbursed               50.0  228.1        -
220     1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                     14.5       0.2
259     1971    Tea                                                 15.0       0.6
260     1971    Second Highway                                      34.0       0.2
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.5       0.2
300     1972    Population                                          13.2       3.0
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                    8.5       1.8
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.0       2.0
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                              3.6       0.2
358     1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.0       0.8
387     1973    Third Education                                     13.5       4.7
388     1973    Third Highway                                       14.0       0.1
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power                             46.0       3.7
400     1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.8       6.3
405     1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.0       0.8
428     1974    Pulo Cadung Industrial Estate                       16.5      10.1
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                10.0      0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.0       1.9
479     1974    Bali Tourism                                        16.0      10.4
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                                     6.5       1.9
514     1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.0      22.4
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project                40.0      34.5
827     1978    Rural Credit                                        30.0      30.0
869     1979    Polytechnic /a                                      49.0      49.0
1005    1974    Railway                                     48.0               3.9
1040    1975    Jakarta Tlrban Development                  25.0               2.5
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                     14.5              8.4
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion                115.0               1.3
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                            65.0              49.0
1127    1975    Fourth Power                                41.0               3.8
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                      68.0              1.1
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension           21.5              18.4
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.0               8.5
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                             130.0              98.4
/a  Not yet effective.



- 29-                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                      Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth Education                           37.0              30.9
1250    1976    Second Shipping                            54.0              46.6
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.0               13.5
1259    1976    Fifth Power                                90.0              72.9
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension              22.0              15.5
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                         33.0              21.0
1318    1977    Transmigration and Rural
Development                             30.0              22.5
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                   52.5              21.9
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0              22.9
1363    1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                              15.0              12.5
1365    1977    Sixth Power                               116.0              84.8
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                      13.0               12.9
1433    1977    Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.0               17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                          63.0               61.1
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                           35.0               31.0
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                           40.0              26.6
1472    1977    Second Population                          24.5               23.3
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                       15.0               14.2
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.0              60.4
1513    1978    Seventh Power                             109.0              108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering                              10.0               8.7
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                          140.0             137.0
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                        31.0               29.0
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II        65.0               65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII /a                          77.0              77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban Development /a                 54.0              54.0
Total                                           1,903.0  679.7   1,472.2
of which has been repaid                         16.7    0.0
Total now outstanding                           1,886.3  679.7
Amount sold                                        28.1    0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA lb               1,858.2  679.7
Total undisbursed                               1,286.6  185.6   1,472.2
/a  Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



-30-                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                               Type of                    US$ million
Year        Obligor                  business             Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               10.6     2.5        13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                  Textiles              2.5     0.8         3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles              2.0      0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                 2.8     0.4         3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              4.5      1.5         6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0      -         11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                5.4     0.7         6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics           0.9      -          0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5         0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles              2.4     0.6         3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -      1.1         1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              0.3       -          0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles              1.4     0.1         1.5
Total                                                50.8    10.5        61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  29.7     1.8        31.5
Total held by IFC                                    21.1     8.7        29.8
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -       -           -



- 31 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                  Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,
1579 and 1645/2)                                               5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)          6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                            9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    10
Education (Cr. 387, 869/2, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                           11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                   12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                  14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                               14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)             15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                      15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                          15-16
Nutrition (Lu. 1373)                                                       16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                   16-17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                         17
Highways (Ln. 1236)                                                        17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     18
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                         18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             19
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                                 19-20
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                       20
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 32 -                  ANNEX IT
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate, due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
unexpected inflation. The project is expected to be completed shortly.
Feasibility studies included in the project have been concluded and ground-
water investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, i982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents. These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977:
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily. Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29,
1978. Not yet effective; Closing Date: March 31. 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date:  August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded



- 34                      ANNEX _.
Page 7 of 20 pages
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent.  Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha).  The
-Newalning area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
^leared and are ready for planting.  Technical problems exist in processing
and e.quipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation. The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for export to that of
production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, and the expected program of
planting rubber and oil palm by smallholders was accomplished at the end of
1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these plantings will have been
brought to maturity. The Government has decided not to expand the project in
its present location because of the extensive support already being given to
North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported projects;



- 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
instead, the Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for smallholder
development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involving nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-term
loans from BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs involved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480  Fisheries Credit:  US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now about
18 months behind schedule. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
virtually completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equip-
ment is on site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond
lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fer-
tilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substan-
tially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the
relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have
already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way
Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are
not available on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash
crops. Experience to date highlights the need for improving project manage-
ment and ensuring that agricultural support services and input supply systems
are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective in January 1978. Project implementation
has started slowly, due to inadequate budgeting of local funds and appoint-
ment of key consultants. Land clearing is in progress and planting material
is being distributed to smallholders.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20 pages
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information centers is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors. Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 1977-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
era, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
asslstance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. BRI,
the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(Apri'l 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).



- 38 -                   ANN,X 1l
Page 11 of 20 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
proiect less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization
and illustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30. 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet demand for en-
gineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java and
Sumatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four accountancy development centers in existing universities.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered an eight month delay due to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further delays
nave occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. About 70% of civil works, 40% of furniture, and 100% of
technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its diverse program of



- 39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the project closely follows the appraisal sched-
ule. The first and second phases of the program to train 160 Indonesian
educators in ways to improve teacher training and develop new curricula have
been carried out successfully. Curriculum development work is making good
progress, production of learning material is under way, and the research
designs for studies included in the project have been completed. Civil works
are on schedule, but equipment procurement is delayed by about nine months.
There are no specific implementation problems at this stage.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven Provinces. General progress in
project implementation is satisfactory. Renovation of two existing provin-
cial centers was completed on schedule, construction contracts for four new
centers are being awarded, and furniture and equipment is being tendered.
The technical assistance component is about nine months behind schedule due
to late signing of contracts and the November 1978 devaluation; however, the
training aspects of the project are on schedule. Recruitment of foreign
experts and domestic consultants is accelerating satisfactorily; initial
staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
being carried out. It will be another two years before the project can be
expected to make a significant impact on field activities.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28. 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of maKing additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.



- 40 -                   ANNEX 11
Page 13 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up. The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976; Effective
Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily. Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



- 41 -                    ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facilities, now being installed, are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have beer, sold
to 99 firms. Employment in Lhese firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory conszruction and land development. Overall, operations are profit-
able. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The p-:oject's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal, and the
Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 42 -                   AX   11
Page 15 of 20 pages
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30. 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10.0 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants
are in place.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The Indonesian national family planning program appears to have
slackened somewhat. As of October 31, 1978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java and Bali were estimated to be currently using contraceptives; the
comparable figure for the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
the program is 8.2%.  These figures as of March 30, 1978, were 30.1% and
9.6%, respectively. However, during the period covered there have been
some problems with data collection, which may be part of the reason for



- 43 -                  ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20 pages
the decline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities for the National Family Planning Coordination
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office building, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
completed. Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Piiot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.



- 44 -                  ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slower rate of progress than scheduled. The project is about 25% complete.
The delays, combined with slow progress, indicate that the project will
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closing Date.



- 45-                   ANNEX -i
Page 18 of 20 pages
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318  Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:  US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated.  The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank has
approved, $22.3 million of subprojects; the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement to reimburse, funds totalling $6.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31. 1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made
and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. The first construc-
tion contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and work is
underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow withdrawal
of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90% of the land
has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished, and a contract
for the new works has recently been awarded. These delays will probably
postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Government intends
to establish statutory agencies (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports and dredging
functions which are currently administered by government departments.
Railways
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Projecc execution is behind schedule due to initial slow procure-
ment and execution of works. Procurement is now well under way and all
contracts have been placed or are about to be placed. Freight and passenger



- 46 -                    ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20 pages
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However, some
improvements have been made since the first half of 1977 following the
arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and operations improved
with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the railway
continues to deteriorate due mainly to increasing costs, including a large
wage raise in early 1977, to low traffic levels, and to inadequate tariffs
for major freight commodities. The Government is completing the reorganiza-
tion of the railway as a Government Department. It has undertaken to review
the role of the railway and determine which traffic should be carried at a
profit and which should be subsidized.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (recently approved by the Executive Directors)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots were resolved last year.
About 2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.



-47 -                    ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development: US$52.5 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates. Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
Loan No. 1653 Third Urban Development; US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31. 1974; Effective Date: May 21. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed. The project has reached the construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978, the Government
issued an interministerial decree defining relationships between the various
Ministries and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in the sector.



- 48 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: Two years
(b) Project prepared by: Government and consultants, financed
out of Bank's First Water Supply Loan
(1049-IND)
(c) First presented to the Bank: 1975
(d) First mission to consider project: July 1976
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: July 1977
(f) Completion of negotiations:/l April 6, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government will:
(i) adopt and publish a Policy Statement by December 31, 1979
for the development of the urban water supply sector
(para. 37);
(ii)  finance and implement in its fiscal years 1978-80
an initial rehabilitation program of work for each
city other than Surabaya (para. 44);
/1   Negotiations were delayed because, prior to negotiations, the Government
was asked, as required under Loan 1049-IND, to issue an inter-departmental
decree designed to strengthen coordination between the agencies concerned.
This was done in September 1978. Also the cost estimates of the project
had to be revised following the November 1978 Rupiah devaluation.



- 49 -                            Ai4NEX III
Page 2
(iii) assign, by Marcfh 31, 1980, for a period up to 24 months a
management specialist to the Director of DSE in order to
strengthen DSE's managerial and administrative capability
(para. 48);
(iv)  appoint to DSE by September 30, 1979 additional staff in
accordance with the plan prepared by the consultants and
thereafter in consultation with the Bank review DSE's
staffing needs annually and implement the agreed staffing
plans (para. 49).
(v) ensure that DSE will initiate and maintain, in addition
to the training of WE and DSE staff by the management
consultants and management specialist, a formal training
program for the water supply sector as shall be agreed
upon between the Government and the Bank and submit this
program to the Bank by March 31, 1980 (para. 54);
(vi)  ensure that the WEs other than Surabaya will establish,
maintain or increase average water rates during each of
the years 1980 and 1981 to the minimum levels agreed
with the Bank and will further increase water rates there-
after to provide revenues sufficient to produce by 1985
(1987 in the case of Purwakarta) rates of return on the
average value of net fixed assets in service of at least
6% (para. 64);
(vii) for Surabaya, the WE will increase its water rates to
provide revenues at least sufficient to cover its
operating expenses (including depreciation calculated
on revalued fixed assets in operation) and debt
service in excess of depreciation (para. 65);
(viii)  ensure the implementation of its guidelines for national
standard water rate structures in the setting of water
rates of the WEs (para. 66); and
(ix)  ensure that any noncompliance with the Government-WE project
financing agreements be remedied promptly (para. 68).
(b)  Conditions of effectiveness:  the Government will sign: (i) project
financing agreements with the water enterprises of the seven
cities; (ii) the contracts for engineering and management consul-
tants; and (iii) appoint a Managing Director for each of the WEs
(paras. 51, 53 and 60).






>  :/  
v, Vr n LNL'S  d__'
0 ~      (        J   .           a\
Z   f '   L '   M ~~~~~''~~ '  (; \Z
Z UL ° l,,C_c-  Ei
b        W o o f k ' X                            b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
' * \ t > , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1  c       a ,



