Document of
The World Bank                    PILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1791-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(SEVEN CITIES)
May 14, 1979
Regional Projects Department
East Asia & Pacific Region Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1979)
Currency Unit          Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00            =   Rp 625
Rp 1                  US$0.0016
Rp 1,000           =   US$1.60
Rp 1 million           US$1,600
US$ 1 million      =   Rp 625 million
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm     =  millimeter                   =  0.04 inches
m      =  meter                        =  3.28 feet
km     =  kilometer                    =  0.62 miles
sq km  =  square kilometer             =  0.39 square miles
ha     =  hectare                      =  10,000 square meters
or 2.47 acres
cu m   =  cubic meter                  =  264 US gallons
1      =  liter                        =  0.26 US gallon
lps    =  liters per second            =  22,800 US gallons per day
lpcd   =  liters per capita per day  =  0.26 US gallon per capita
per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI         =  Government of Indonesia
BAPPENAS    =  National Development Planning Board
Cipta Karya =  Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning
and Urban Development
DSE         =  Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
WE          =  Water Enterprise (of the City specified)
WHO          =  World Health Organization
UNICEF      =  United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
PELITA      =  Five Year Development Plan
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia:   April 1-March 31
Water Enterprises:          January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.     THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR  . . .                           1
Country Background                   .      . . . . . . . .         I
Sector Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . .             1
Sector Development  .     .         . . . . . . .    . . . . .     .  3
The Bank's Objectives . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           5
Performance Under Previous Bank Lending . . . . . . . . .           5
2.     THE BORROWER, EXECUTING AGENCY AND BENEFICIARIES  . . . . .           6
The Borrower - Government of Indonesia  . . . . . . . . .           6
The Executing Agency - Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering  . . .   -           . .  . . . . .  . .              6
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6
Staffing  . . . . . . . . .   . . . ..                           6
The Beneficiaries - Water Enterprises       . . .  . .    .         7
Organization, Management and Staffing . . . . . . . . .          8
Management Assistance and Training.        . . . . . . . . .       10
Management Assistance . .            .     . . . . . . . .            10
Audit .   .         .     . .  .       .   . . . . . . . .      10
Training  ..... . . . . . . .  .  . .                           10
3.     POPULATION AND WATER DEMAND  . . .    . .             . . . .  . . .  13
Present Production and Consumption           . . . . . .           13
Population Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .          13
Consumption Projections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          14
4.     THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . .        . . . . .  . . . . . . . .      15
Scope and Design Objectives. .  . .  . . .   . . . . . .          15
Ambon              .  . .  .   .  .  .   .   .  .   .    .    .   .    .    .  16
Existing Facilities   . . .            . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
Proposed System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .          17
Jember  . . .  . . . . .   . . .  . .        - .  . . . . . .      18
Existing Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          18
Proposed System . . . . .  . . . . .         . . . . . . .      18
Klaten     .    .   .  .    .  .  .    .   .   .    I  .   .   .  .  .  .  18
Proposed System . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .            19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
Pare-Pare.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                19
Existing  Facilities.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              19
Proposed  System.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              20
Purwakarta  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               20
Proposed  System.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              20
Tangerang   . . . . .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    20
Existing Facilities.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              21
Proposed  System.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             21
Surabaya  .         ..  ....... .                         ...  .        .     .     22
Existing  Facilities.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             22
Proposed  System.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              22
Project Description.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               22
Cost Estimates  ....  .              .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    .   23
Financing.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               23
Implementation  ....           .      .  .  .  .  .  .     ......  .         .      25
Procurement.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               25
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                26
Environmental Aspects.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              27
5.      FINANCIAL ASPECTS.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 29
Part A  - Six Cities   . . .   . . . . .. .                     . '                 29
Record of Finances ... . ... .... ..29
Transfers  of Assets  to WEs  . . . . . . . . . . . .                            30
Financing Plan  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             30
Financial Projections   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              33
Water Rates  and Billings  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              33
Future Finances.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              37
Monitoring  Criteria.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              38
Part B  - Surabaya   ...  .              .   .  .   .  .   .     ... ...   .        38
Status and Finances   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              38
Project  Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              40
Water Rates  and Billings  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              40
Other Loan Provisions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              42
6.      JUSTIFICATION.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                42
Provision  of Safe  and Uninterrupted Water  Supply  . .                            42
Urban Poor  ....  .             .  .   . . . . . .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .    .     43
Least  Cost  Solution.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             43
Affordability.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               43
Pricing   ....  .            .  .  .  .     . .....  .       .  .   .  .  .     .   44
Internal  Rate  of Return.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             44
Institution Building  ...  .               .  .  .     ....  .    .  .  .     .     45
Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               45
Risks   ....  .            .  .   .   .  .     . .....   .  .   .  .   .  .     .   45
General.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              45
Tangerang   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               46
7.  SU111ARY OF AGREEMIENTS .................                                         .           47



- iii-
CHARTS
18030 Organization Chart for Water Enterprises
18031 Organization Chart for Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
19558 Activity Schedule - Part A Cities
20342 Activity Schedule - Surabaya
MAPS
IBRD 12938  -  Project Locations
IBRD 12939  -  City of Ambon
TBRD 12940  -  City of Jember
IBRD 12941  -  City of Klaten
IBRD 12942  -  City of Pare-Pare
IBR) 12943  -  City of Purwakarta
IBRD 12945  -  City of Tangerang
ANNEXES
1. Project Costs
2. Ambon - Income Statements, Cash Flows, Balance Sheets, 1978-87
3. Jember - Income Statements, Cash Flows, Balance Sheets, 1978-87
4. Klaten - Income Statements, Cash Flows, Balance Sheets, 1978-87
5. Pare-Pare - Income Statements, Cash Flows, Balance Sheets, 1978-87
6. Purwakarta - Income Statements, Cash Flows, Balance Sheets, 1978-87
7.  Tangerang - Income Statements, Cash Flows, Balance Sheets, 1978-87
8. Financial Assumptions for Part A Water Enterprises
9. Surabaya - Income Statements, Cash Flows, Balance Sheets, 1978-79
10. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
This report was prepared by A. Bruestle and K. Smeltzer, with the support
of i4essrs. Forget, Chang, Barker and 1ls. Hagsaysay. The appraisal team,
comprised of MHessrs. Bruestle, Smeltzer, Forget and Chang, visited Indonesia
in June-July, 1977;  Mr. Barker in October 1977 and January 1979; and hessrs.
Bruestle and Smeltzer in November 1977 and January 1979. (Iiegotiations were
delayed because GOI was asked to take measures prior to negotiations which
would strengthen relationships between agencies.)






1. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Country Background
1.01      Indonesia, with a population of about 130 million and growing at an
annual rate of 2.2%, is the world's fifth ranking country in population. It
comprises over 3,000 inhabited islands which extend about 5,000 km east to
west and 2,000 km north to south. The land area is about 1.9 million sq
km and the four major islands are Java, Sumatera, Kalimantan and Sulawesi.
The population density of Indonesia is about 69 inhabitants per sq km. Java,
which has about 65% of the total population of Indonesia but only 7% of the
land area, has a population density of 565 per sq km, one of the highest in
the world. About 24 million of the population are urban, living in cities of
more than 5,000 inhabitants, and urbanization of the country is accelerating.
About 55% of the urban population are at or below the poverty level.
1.02      Indonesia's economy is generally based on agriculture (about half
of the national product), and about 80% of the population live in rural
areas. Oil and gas are Indonesia's most important natural resources. During
FY77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly and, although terms of trade
improved, imports continued to increase rapidly. With the boost in oil
exports, oil revenues rose by close to 40%; Government of Indonesia's (GOI's)
budgetary position improved and development expenditures more than quadrupled
during the past three years.
1.03      Indonesia is divided administratively into 23 provinces and 3
territories, which are in turn divided into regencies or districts. The
cities, depending on their size, have their own municipal governments or are
administered by the regency governments.
1.04      Indonesia is rich in both surface and groundwater resources,
but access to water in many places presents difficulties that tend to be
underestimated. The dry season lasts three or four months; many rivers and
creeks dry out, and springs and shallow wells are affected. Groundwater is
the most important potential source but the exact extent of groundwater
resources is not known. One estimate is that 30% of the rural population
could be served by shallow aquifers - that is, from tube or dug wells, and
many cities and villages could take groundwater from springs and deep wells
as a source for piped water supply. But in urban areas shallow aquifers are
frequently polluted by human wastes, and the boiling of drinking water is a
widespread practice.
Sector Organization and Management
1.05      Three ministries of GOI are principally responsible for the water
supply and sewerage sector -- the Ministry of Public Works for urban areas,
defined as municipalities with a population larger than 5,000, the Ministry of
Health for rural water systems, and the Ministry of Home Affairs by virtue of
its responsibility for local governments and enterprises. The Ministry of
Mines and Energy through its Geological Survey is in charge of groundwater



- 2 -
exploration and relevant data collection. Funds made available for water
supply and sewerage projects in Indonesia's annual development budget are
allocated by the National DeveloDment Planning Board (BAPPENAS), and the
Ministry of Finance participates un channe±ing funds and e.~dwLLsuaing Lile
terms under which they are provided.
1.06      The Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation of the Ministry of Health
is responsible for rural water supply and sanitation, but regional public
works departments carry out physical planning and construction of rural
water systems. Within the Ministry of Public Works, the Directorate General
of Water Resources deals mainly with water rights, allocations of water
resources, and the development of water resources for agricultural purposes.
The Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban Development
(Cipta Karya) is in charge of urban water supply and sewerage.
1.07      Cipta Karya through its Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (DSE)
is the implementing agency for urban water supply and sewerage projects with
the functions of project planning and selection, fund allocations, preliminary
and detailed engineering, construction supervision, technical and management
assistance to Water Enterprises and, occasionally, operation and maintenance
of urban water supply systems. DSE is a central agency, and one longer-term
sector objective is to place greater responsibility for project implementation
with regional and local governments. DSE fosters this by stationing regional
engineers in the provinces but is constrained by the shortage of qualified
staff; the training program financed by the proposed loan will help to
alleviate this constraint.
1.08      Local governments or Water Enterprises (WEs), organized by local
ordinance in the corporate form as Perusahaan Daerah, are responsible for
operation and maintenance of water works and for extension of the distri-
bution systems. Water works entities are usually a part of the municipal or
regency government, and their organization and degree of dependency vary from
city to city with the WE form of administration representing the greatest
degree of autonomy. Provincial and local governments and local government
enterprises such as WEs fall under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home
Affairs; in recent years confusion has arisen as to the relative responsi-
bilities of DSE and Home Affairs with regard to enforcement of GOI - WE loan
agreement covenants, management assistance and related matters. Under the
first Bank water supply loan, GOI agreed to issue a decree which would govern
the relations between its agencies, the Ministries of Public Works, Home
Affairs and Finance on the one hand, and the WEs on the other. The decree
was issued in September 1978 and it is expected that this will result in a
more orderly and efficient development of the sector.
1.09      Accounts for water supply operations run by local governments are
kept on a cash receipts and disbursements basis as part of the local systems.
Generally revenues just about meet cash operating expenses (no allowance is



3-
made for depreciation). Cash surpluses, if any, are used by local govern-
ments for any purpose they select, and deficits are met from local govern-
ment funds. Where, as under recent practice, WEs are established, they
take over the water supply assets and liabilities of the local government
and account for their operations and finance separately. Management
consultants and DSE assist the WEs in establishing and using commercial
accounting procedures and related management systems. This notwithstanding,
the extent of WE autonomy is in fact limited because the head of the local
government and other local officials are members of and control the WE's
supervisory board.
Sector Development
1.10      About 80% (105 million persons) of Indonesia's population live in
more than 50,000 rural villages; of these about 4% benefit from piped water
systems, tubewells with handpumps, central rainwater collection or protected
springs. Those without access to public schemes obtain water from streams,
springs or wells. About 130 piped water schemes were planned for PELITA II
(FY75-79); by the end of FY78 about 88 of those schemes had been completed
and the balance is scheduled for completion by 1981. In the rural sector GOI
provides grants which are earmarked for design and source development, GOI
and UNICEF contribute equipment and materials, and local authorities make
cash contributions or contributions in kind. For simple schemes unskilled
labor is provided by the villagers.
1.11      It is estimated that about 41% of the Indonesian urban popula-
tion have access to piped water supply. Most of that water supply suffers
from low pressure and intermittent supply, and safe water entering the system
frequently becomes contaminated. A considerable portion of the urban popula-
tion lives in cities with no public water supply and are dependent on dug
wells, streams or rivers with attendant health risks.
1.12      The water supply sector was reported upon in a Bank study in 1971,
and a second sector study was completed in 1977 by the WHO under the WHO-IBRD
Cooperative Program. The second sector study reports that, according to
incomplete data, total capital investment for urban water supply and sewerage
projects during PELITA 1 (1970-74), was close to Rp 16 billion. About 80% of
this amount was contributed by GOI (or through GOI from external assistance)
and the remainder from various local sources, including provincial budgets.
Actual expenditures as distinct from annual allocations are generally not
available, but in recent years, expenditures have tended to exceed the ori-
ginal plan allocations. Thus in FY75, the first year of PELITA II (FY75-79),
the allocation of Rp 4 billion was increased to Rp 5.3 billion. For FY77
Rp 8.6 billion was allocated, and, in addition, Rp 10 billion was made
available through import credits. The urban water supply allocation for
FY78 was Rp 15.4 billion, and for FY79 and 80 is programed for Rp 16.1 and
27.5 billion respectively. The allocation for FY78 represented about 0.7% of
GOI's development expenditures.



-4-
1.13      GOI's urban water supply target for PELITA II (FY75-79) was to
increase production by 0.8 million cu m/day, which would serve an additional
5 million consumers. At a per capita cost of Rp 40,000 (US$64), an invest-
ment outlay of about Rp 200 billion, or Rp 40 billion per year, would be
required; this is substantially above the recent allocations for urban water
supply and may exceed what the sector can absorb on a sustained basis.
1.14      A recommendation of the UN Conference on Human Settlements
(Vancouver, 1976) is to provide all communities with potable water by 1990.
For Indonesia this would require an investment of about Rp 1,400 billion
(US$2.2 billion, 1979 prices), or Rp 130 billion (US$200 million) per year
for the next 11 years, for the Indonesian urban water sector alone. Con-
sidering past investment levels and prevailing financial and manpower con-
straints, it is unlikely that the goal can be met.
1.15      Up to the mid-1970s, GOI's participation in the urban water sector
was by way of planning, designing and building, at no cost to local govern-
ments, water source and treatment facilities, with the local governments
undertaking to provide the distribution system and service connections with
their own resources. This frequently resulted in completed source and
treatment systems which lacked the means for delivering water to the consumer.
As a result of recommendations by a Bank mission which visited Indonesia in
1971, GOI adopted practices which formed the basis of the first Bank water
supply loan of 1975, namely, that:
(a)  autonomous WEs would be established to build, jointly with GOI,
water systems and then to operate and maintain them;
(b)  capital funding would be by loans or a mixture of loans and
equity, in place of grants previously provided; and
(c)  GOI investments would be for complete systems including
source, treatment and distribution.
1.16      Because of the large number of people still to be provided with safe
water, and in compliance with the emphasis of Pelita III (1980-84) for the
equitable distribution of benefits of economic development, GOI in late 1978
formulated a new policy for urban water supply. This policy aims to provide
a basic quantity of safe water to as many people and as rapidly as possible
during Pelita III. The first priority for water supply is to provide to
about 60% of the population in each of ten large cities, 40 medium-sized cities
and 150 small towns about 60 lpcd to meet the basic need. This would be
accomplished through the expanded use of public standpipes and standardized
design modules, and would be funded by nonrepayable central budget allocations
(DIP). Supplies in excess of 60 lcpd, when desired by the community, would
be funded with loans from GOI and with equity from the local governments
which, in turn, would be provided with concessional loans from GOI. GOI
expects this policy to improve and speed-up social and economic benefits. It
also believes that with this strategy, consumers will be better motivated
after they have been provided with basic needs, to contribute to the capital
costs of subsequent water supply expansion projects. The new policy is a
major and encouraging step designed to meet the basic needs of the urban



- 5 -
population. However, effective implementation will require complementary
measures (para 1.17), and GOI's implementation schedule, particularly given
past performance, is probably overoptimistic.
1.17      To conform with Pelita III goals, Cipta Karya outlined a strategy
which, while embracing desirable existing practices, introduces additional
measures such as expanding efforts to rapidly rehabilitate disrepaired systems
and using standardized designs and preprocured and centrally stored stan-
dardized modules of water system components for small towns. The proposed
loan would finance technical specialists to help Cipta Karya implement this
strategy. During negotiations GOI's policies and strategies were presented
in draft to the Bank for comment and GOI has agreed to adopt an urban water
supply policy statement by December 31, 1979.
The Bank's Objectives
1.18      The Bank's prime objective is to help GOI develop national and
local institutions to carry out GOI's water supply development programs,
train staff, and strengthen local consulting firms.   Further objectives,
particularly for the urban sector, are to help foster efficiency pricing and
cost recovery concepts to eventually make the sector financially independent
and to increase public savings. The specific objectives of the proposed
project are to efficiently provide potable water supplies to the inhabitants
of seven cities, to establish and strengthen autonomous WEs, train their
staffs in administration and operation, and prepare future projects based on
GOI's new policy. Recently a WHO-IBRD Cooperative Program mission visited
Indonesia with the purpose of identifying rural water supply projects
suitable for Bank financing; this may result in a rural project in the early
1980's.
Performance Under Previous Bank Lending
1.19      A Bank loan (1049-IND) in the amount of US$14.-5 million for the
First Water Supply Project, which covers five cities, became effective May
21, 1975. The project is about 24 months behind schedule. Initially, time
was lost because of delays in completing final designs and appointing consul-
tants for construction supervision; subsequently, evaluating and awarding
contracts and opening letters of credit took longer than scheduled. Unfamil-
iarity with budgetary and administrative procedures and shortage of qualified
staff, together with numerous and cumbersome procurement and contract payment
procedures, are the primary causes for project slippage. Progress has
improved now that procurement hurdles are passed and construction is in
progress. Project costs are estimated to be about 30% higher than the
appraisal estimate.
1.20      Delays have also occurred in (i) transferring staff working on
water supply from local governments to WEs due to uncertainty about retaining
their pension benefits; (ii) payment of water bills of GOI agencies; (iii)
the transfer of WE's internally generated funds as contributions to their
construction programs; and (iv) completing the audited financial statements
and audit reports of WE's and sending them to the Bank. Bank staff and the
management consultants have been working with GOI on correcting these matters.



-6-
Most overdue audit reports have now been received by the Bank. GOI is making
necessary arrangements for the transfer of WE staffs, the payments of the
unpaid water bills by the GOI agencies, and the transfer of internally
generated funds. These difficulties are expected to be solved in due course.
1.21      Under the First Project DSE and its consultants were successful in
setting up financial and administrative procedures in the WEs and training
WE staff in their use, and this is a major accomplishment. But management
improvement within DSE have not been fully effective because of heavy work-
loads and limited number of staff. Steps designed to correct this will be
taken as part of the proposed project and are described below.
2. THE BORROWER, EXECUTING AGENCY AND BENEFICIARIES
The Borrower - Government of Indonesia
2.01      GOI through its Ministry of Finance would be the borrower.  DSE
would be responsible for executing the projects on behalf of the WEs estab-
lished for water supply in each of the seven project cities. The major
part of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be relent to these WEs.
The Executing Agency - The Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
2.02      DSE is reponsible for the national urban water supply program in-
cluding investigation, planning, design and construction supervision of water
supply and sewerage projects.
2.03      Organization and Management.  DSE's organizational structure was
revamped under the first loan and now consists of the planning. development,
construction and logistics subdirectorates and the administration division.
These units are further subdivided into sections as depicted on Chart 18031
at the end of this chapter. The organizational structure is satisfactory.
2.04      Under the First Loan, management consultants developed procedures
with respect to fund releases for project expenditures, repayments to GOI,
project construction and monitoring the WEs. In order to strengthen DSE's
capability in this area agreement was reached during negotiations that a
management specialist would be assigned to DSE for a period up to 24 months.
He would work with a second specialist, financed under the Third Urban
Development Loan, who is doing a similar task for Cipta Karya. The services
of the DSE specialist would be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
loan and would supplement the services presently provided by a WHO technical
specialist.
2.05      Staffing.  DSE central office staff numbers 140, of which 49 are
professionals. In addition there are about 40 professional staff assigned
to projects in the field. There are several engineering vacancies, but these
are difficult to fill because compensation is relatively low and qualified
persons are in short supply. Professional staff generally have good theore-
tical background and are improving in their project planning and implemen-
tation skills. Management consultants have prepared a staffing plan for DSE
for FY80 as shown in the following table.



-7-
DSE CENTRAL OFFICE STAFFING - PRESENT AND PROPOSED FOR FY80
Professional       Nonprofessional            Total
Present  Proposed   Present  Proposed   Present  Proposed
Director             1          1         2          2          3        3
Administration
Division          12         17       59          63         71      80
Planning Sub-
directorate       13         18        8           1         21      19
Development Sub-
directorate       13         19       14           3         27      22
Construction Sub-
directorate        6         13        4           5         10      18
Logistics Sub-
directorate        4          4        4           7          8      11
Total          49        72        91          81        140     153
Agreement has been reached with GOI that (i) DSE would implement by June 30,
1979, the staffing plan for FY80, and (ii) thereafter staffing needs would be
reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank and DSE would be staffed as
recommended by the review.
2.06      The project as originally appraised was for complete water supply
systems in six smaller-sized cities: Ambon, Jambi, Klaten, Pare-Pare,
Purwakarta and Tangerang. These cities, comprising what is hereafter
referred to as Part A of the project, have either no water supply systems or
only rudimentary systems owned and operated by recently formed, or to-be-
formed, WEs. Subsequently a program for expanding the transmission and
distribution facilities for the WE of the city of Surabaya, hereafter
referred to as Part B of the project, was included in the project.
In contrast to the Part A cities, Surabaya has a well-established, finan-
cially independent WE which serves about one million persons. Details on
all the WEs and their subprojects follow.
The Beneficiaries - Water Enterprises
2.07      As is current practice, a WE has been authorized by local ordinance
as a municipal corporation (Perusahaan Daerah) in each of the project cities.
In the past, the water supplies have been operated by the public works
departments of the local governments. The Surabaya WE owns and operates its
facilities, but the water works in the other four cities with existing sys-
tems (Ambon, Jember, Pare-Pare and Tangerang) have not yet been transferred
in practice to the WEs; this will be done at the start of the project.
2.08      The water supply organizations have, in the past, varied in their
structure and degree of dependency. They are geared primarily to operation
and maintenance, and construction works (with the exception of Surabaya) are



confined to minor extensions of distribution mains, pipe replacements and
consumer connections to the extent their limited supply and capability
permit. The Surabaya WE has undertaken several major construction works
using its own resources.
2.09      In Ambon the water supply system is administered and operated by the
M1aluku Provincial Public Works Department. The Governor of Maluku Province
has issued an order confirming the effectiveness of the 1976 ordinance of
the municipality of Ambon authorizing the establishment of the WE as a
municipal organization to own and operate the water supply system. The staff
of the system numbers about 45, who consist of Provincial employees, central
government employees and daily workers paid from water revenues.
2.10      In Jember the water supply system has in past years operated as a
section in the Subdirectorate of Revenue of the Regency of Jember. The
1975 ordinance of the municipality authorizing the establishment of the WE
as a separate organization has not been fully implemented. The staff of
the water supply system numbers about 35.
2.11      In Pare-Pare the water supply system is operated as a service
unit within the municipal public works department. The 1975 ordinance of
the municipality authorizing the establishment of the WE has not been fully
implemented. The staff engaged in water supply numbers about 25, paid
partly out of water revenues and in part from the municipal budget.
2.12      In Surabaya a semiautonomous water supply agency was first created
in 1968 and in 1976 autonomy was formalized by an ordinance of the Surabaya
municipality. The WE has about 1,200 staff paid from WE generated revenues.
2.13      In Tangerang the water supply system operates as a section under
the direction of the municipal public works department. The Governor of
West Java has issued an order confirming the 1976 ordinance of the munici-
pality of Tangerang authorizing the establishment of the WE to own and
operate the water supply facilities in Tangerang. The staff of the water
supply system numbers about 20 who are paid directly by the mumicipal public
works department.
2.14      Organization, Management and Staffing.  The implementation of the
water supply program will considerably increase the responsibilities of the
existing water supply organizations. As the supply areas are expanded,
revenues from water sales will increase substantially and effective operating
procedures, accounting systems and management controls will be needed. To
cope with such increased responsibilities in the project cities and in other
cities which will have their water supply systems expanded, changes in
organization and working procedures are needed. Studies for the Part A WEs
have been carried out by the management consultant, SyCip, Gorres, Velayo &
Co., as part of the feasibility studies financed in the first project, and
they have recommended reorganization of existing water units, and organiza-
tion in the cities without existing systems, as shown in Chart 18030. During
negotiations agreement was reached that the organization of the six Part A
WEs will be carried out early in the project period substantially in accord-
ance with those recommendations. (The organization of the Surabaya WE is



- 9 -
already well established). Management consultants would assist in strength-
ening the organization, management and accounting systems of all seven WEs
during project implementation.
2.15      The organizational structures for all cities will be substantially
the same with variations to accommodate the differences in the water supply
systems. The WE will be controlled by a supervisory board to be composed of
representatives of the local and national governments. The Board will
appoint a Managing Director who, with the assistance of the Finance and
Administration Director and the Chief Engineer, will be responsible for
implementing board policy and for day-to-day control.
2.16      Under the proposed organization, the WEs are being set up as cor-
porations (Perusahaan Daerah) separate from the local governments, accounting
separately for their operations and retaining their own revenues from which
they will meet operating and capital expenditures and debt service. General
regulations for regional enterprises are spelled out in Law No. 5 of 1962 and
Law No. 5 of 1974 and, as stated above, ordinances within this framework have
been issued by the local governments for water organizations./1 Understand-
ing has been reached with GOI that (i) all water supply assets in each of
the cities will be accounted for separately in the name of the WE serving
such city and will be under the exclusive control of such WE; and (ii) each
WE will enter with GOI and the local government into a project financing
agreement, acceptable to the Bank and confirmed by appropriate government
officials, for the related project. A condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan is that all seven GOI-WE financing agreements will have been
signed.
2.17      The water systems of the Part A cities have been operated under the
supervision of chiefs of public works departments which have functions in
addition to water supply. In view of this and the need for qualified finan-
cial and technical personnel, particularly at management levels to operate
the expanded and modernized systems, recruitment of Managing Directors will
be required. During negotiations agreement was reached that in each case a
Managing Director will be appointed as a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan and that the Chief Engineer, the Finance and Administration
Director and an accounting officer will be appointed not later than
June 30, 1980.
2.18      Under the First Water Supply Project problems have arisen with
respect to benefits (particularly pension benefits) for employees who were to
be transferred from local government agencies to the WEs, and this has
impeded the formal transfer of employees even though they are working on WE
activities (para 1.20). During negotiations GOI agreed to develop a plan by
June 30, 1980 designed to assure that existing staffs would be transferred
promptly to the WEs and that all staff would receive appropriate compensation
and benefits.
/1 The Bank has reviewed the ordinances and has suggested modifications of
two of them.



- 10 -
Management Assistance and Training
2.19      Dianagement Assistance.  DSE would require a continuation of the
services of management consultants to assist it in reorganization of the WEs,
establishing systems and trainin5) WL sLaiL in management,  ..IIL_Ll%  L.
finance. Management consultants would also help DSE monitor WEs and estab-
lish systems in project cost accounting, final project accounting and flowT
of funds for DSE's central operations. The proposed loan provides for three
years of such services. During negotiations agreement was reached that the
signing of the contract for services to DSE would be a condition of effec-
tiveness and that the contract for services to the WEs would be signed not
later than March 31, 1980. These services would be in addition to those of
the management specialist to be assigned directly to the Director of DSE
(para 2.04).
2.20      Audit.  The accounts of the water organizations (with the exception
of Surabaya WE which is on a modified system) are not kept on a commercial
accounting basis and the usual financial statements for utility enterprises
are not prepared. While there generally are periodic reviews under the
municipal systems by governmental authorities, audits are not made for any of
the WEs under generally accepted accounting standards. Understanding has
been reached with GOI that the accounts for each of the seven WEs will
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
first audit would cover accounts for the fiscal year ending December 31,
1981, and the auditor's report and financial statements would be sent to the
Bank not later than June 30, 1982, and six months after the close of each
fiscal year thereafter.
2.21      Training.  The proposed project includes a training program that
would be devised and implemented jointly by DSE and WEs. The training system
resulting from this component would aim not only at giving a greater measure
of local training expertise and capability to the WEs of the seven cities, but
would provide the means to externd systematically the provision of water-
related training programs to other urban WEs including those financed under
the First Water Supply Project. The Bank's experience under the First
Project, reinforced by constraints identified by the IBRD/WHO Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector Study Report dated February 1977, indicates that the
difficulty of sector communications and the spread of the urban centers
create conditions which emphasize the need to develop local capacity for
testing and implementing new engineering, financing, operational and training
approaches.
2.22      The proposed training program is additional to the management,
accounting and financial training of WE and DSE staff to be carried out by
the management consultants retained by DSE, but is both complementary and
supplementary to the work of the management consultants. The aim will be,
during the life time of the project, to (a) integrate all related training
programs into one overall training plan for the seven cities; and (b) to use
this plan as the basis for developing, in time, a more comprehensive and
coordinated manpower development plan for the water sector as a whole. To
this end, the training program would be planned to continue beyond the Second
Water Supply Project and would require the services of training consultants
to assist DSE and WEs in the following specific areas:



- 11 -
(a) establishing a Training Development and Advisory Service
at DSE with the primary task of initiating and coordinating
the development of group training schemes /1 starting with
the seven cities. As soon as practicable, this training
system would be systematically expanded to set up additional
schemes incorporating, for training purposes, mutually
supporting groups of WEs;
(b) arranging where possible the integration of other bilateral
and multilateral assisted water supply training components
into group training schemes;
(c) selecting and training the field training staff and instructors who
would be required to man the group training schemes;
(d) developing a portfolio of standard training modules including all
supporting training manuals, materials and aids;
(e) organizing and conducting a series of introductory seminars for
water enterprise managers and supervisors to explain and discuss
the concept, operation and benefits of group training methods.
With the assistance of the training consultants, a limited number of overseas
training fellowship programs would be arranged for a nucleus of the staff
selected from WEs for positions as permanent field training officers of group
training schemes. The fellowship programs would concentrate upon studying
the planning, operation and control of existing group training schemes and
would include training in the design and implementation of training methodol-
ogy appropriate to group training schemes for the water sector.
2.23      During negotiations agreement was reached that DSE will implement
the training programs with the assistance of training consultants employed on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were also obtained
that DSE would submit a detailed description of the training plan and an
implementation schedule by March 31, 1980. The training methods to be
developed and introduced by the consultants would include an appropriate
balance of off-the-job training at the DSE central training facility and
training both off-the-job and on-the-job provided and controlled under
arrangements made within group training schemes. A series of short modules
of training would be developed by the consultants suitable for implementation
locally by group training staff and covering, in particular, the following
areas of work:
(a) all water distribution operational and maintenance tasks;
/1 Group training schemes: A scheme operated on behalf of a group of
employers to carry out all or some aspects of the training function and
employing at least one full-time training specialist for the planning,
organization and control of training.



- 12 -
(b) operation and preventive maintenance of electrical and mechanical
plant including water treatment plant;
(c) organization and control of work;
(d) water meter testing, calibration and repair;
(e) the principles and practice of supervision; and
(f) job safety.
Emphasis would be placed throughout the group training programs upon the need
for systematic and regular basic and refresher training for subprofessional
operators, technicians and supervisors of water systems and plant.
2.24      The main features of the training program would be carried out during
the period 1980-1984 but the program would be planned to continue
beyond that time in order to provide a similar range of training services to
other WEs in the country.



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart
for Water Enterprises
SUPERVISORY BOARD
GENERAL MANAGER
|                                                                  I               .~I
ADMINISTRATIVE &
FINANCE DIRECTOR
FINANCE                  CUSTOMER RELATIONS               WATER PRODUCTION               WATER DISTRIBUTION               TECHNICAL PLANS
DIVISION          JRDIVISION                                                           ____ONS  DIVISION  DIVISION            DIVISION
FIANIA PLGENERAL& PERSONNEL              WATER PREPARATION/                 DISTRIBUTION &   1            TECHNICAL DESIGN
FINANCIAL PLANS               ADMINISTRATION                     OPERATION                       CONNECTION       I& SUPERVISION
0   SECTION    l     1    ADMINISTRATION lSECTION   - (1)      SECTION                         SECTION                                        l
ACCOUNTING                 CUSTOMER SERVICES                                              METER TEST & REPAIR
SECTION                        SECTION                                                         SECTION
BILLING                     PROCUREMENT                                                     MAINTENANCE
SECTION                       SECTION                                                          SECTION
CASH          1            WAREHOUSING                 Notes
_    SECTION         ISECTION
SECTION____________________________ JSECTION_____________________________(1)  The  Personnel Administrator  will
also serve as the Training Officer
METER READING               (2) The Chief of Customer Service will
SECTION                     also serve as the Public Relations
Officer
World Bank - 18030






INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
Organization Chart
F~~~C                                                                                                                                               F
Pl--g.nd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~irco
ISpecialistI
Adnrin istrative ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     Ad-
Grou   Sevrvies |o        P iiriancc   Planning |  etand|
liilormction~ ~ ~ ~  Pormig     Specl rion t setso                     Section                 rlet                                           ISlKIl rlet
Wdrld SakF-nni031






- 13 -
3. POPULATION AND WATER DEMAND
Present Production and Consumption
3.01       Present water production in the Part A project cities with water
supplies is only partially and unreliably measured, thus production figures
shown in financial statements are estimates largely based upon short-term
measurements made by the consultants. Ambon and Jember have water systems of
a scale which could provide consumption data suitable for extrapolation. but
in those cities the data is weak and spot measurements by the consultants
produced questionable results. Thus, for the Part A cities there is little
water consumption information available which could be employed in making
demand projections. In Surabaya the information is more extensive and
reliable.
Population Projections
3.02       Year by year historical population data, divided into districts,
are available for each project city; therefore, growth rates were
analyzed and used for projection purposes. Additionally, special influences
on growth, such as the urban development scheme in Tangerang and the recent
industrial start-ups in Purwakarta, were taken into account both in popula-
tion and in demand projections. Population projections were made by
districts so as to produce data on local as well as global demands, and to
reflect changes in service area boundaries over time.
3.03       Of the total population in the six Part A cities, 9% is presently
served by connections and 4% by standpipes; in 1987 these figures are
expected to increase to 54% and 27%, respectively. In Surabaya 400,000
persons are served by house connections and 600,000 by vendors and stand-
pipes; these represent 17% and 25%, respectively, of the total population.
When the physical work in Surabaya is completed in 1984, 18% of the total
population would be served by house connections, and 30% by public stand-
pipes. The table below shows for each city total population and population
served by the public water supply system in 1978 and as projected after
project completion.



- 14 -
1978 ('000)                      1987 ('000)
Population served                Population served
Total   By con-    By stand-   Total   By con-    By stand-
popu-   nections      pipes      popu-   nections       pipes
City              lation   No.    z   No.    x   lation   No.    %   No.    %
Part A Cities
Ambon                89      14   16      6    7        97     54   55    19   20
Jember              110      22   20    12   11        128     58   45    51   40
Klaten               65      -    -       -    -        75     34   45    15   20
Pare-Pare            70       5    7      -    -        80     37   46    28   35
Purwakarta           78      -    -       -    -       101     47   47    28   28
Tangerang            75       5    6      -    -       129      98   76    26   20
Total Part A    487       46    9    18    4       610    328   54   167   27
-------- 1978 ('000) -------    -------- 1984 ('000) -------
Part B City
Surabaya          2,400    400   17   500   25    2,830    510   18   840   30
Consumption Projections
3.04      The consumption data base in the Part A cities is too weak to
make reliable consumption projections. Instead, consumption data from
similar cities in Indonesia were analyzed and spot checks were made to
confirm their applicability. The projected demand figures for household
consumption consider such factors as family size, the introduction of a
continuous water supply, the availability of alternative water sources such
as dug wells, and consumers' ability to afford the water rates. The
projected demand figures for other consumer categories such as commercial,
industrial and institutional are based on surveys of these consumers
carried out in the project and other cities. Water consumption values for
various consumer categories are shown in the table below.
Category               1980                          1990
    -------- lpcd ------------
House connection            110                          130
Standpipe                    22                           26
Bath house                    3                            3
Institutions             14-250/a                     15-400/a
Commercial                  200                          220
Industrial                   80 cu m/ha/d                 80 cu m/ha/d
/a Varies for schools, hospitals, religious institutions, etc.



- 15 -
3.05      Unaccounted-for water in the Part A cities is assumed to decline
gradually from the present 40-60% to 18-23% due to metering, the replacement
of faulty water meters and old pipelines, the substantial addition of new
pipelines, and a leakage detection program (para 5.16).
3.06      For Surabaya, because of the extensive existing systeim, the con-
sumption data base is more reliable. Consumers with house connections
typically use 130-240 lpcd depending upon affluence and water pressures, and
public standpipe consumers use 5-30 lpcd depending upon the proKimity and
water quality of alternative supplies such as shallow wells. Unaccounted-
for water in Surabaya is a little less than 20% of water production and is
expected to remain at about that level.
IV. THE PROJECT
Scope and Design Objectives
4.01      The subprojects for the six Part A cities are the first stage,
covering the years 1979 through 1984, of a master plan of works prepared by
engineering consultants for water supplies (see Map 12938 at the end of this
chapter). The project cities were chosen on the basis of need, size, growth
potential and geographical dispersion. The first stage is designed to meet
expected residential, commercial and industrial demands through 1990; the
second stage, through 2000./i Two of the cities at present have no piped
water systems, the remaining four have rudimentary systems which will be
incorporated into the proposed systems or abandoned because of obsolescence.
4.02      The designs of the water systems for Part A cities are based upon
population and water projections given in Chapter III. These projections
would be reviewed during project implementation with the objective of refining
the project scope in accordance with most recent data; this review may result
in some modifications to the scope of the subprojects given below. The
completed facilities would provide 24-hour supply of water meeting Indonesian
drinking water quality standards which are along the lines of the WHO Inter-
national Standards. Water production facilities are designed for maximum day
and distribution systems for peak hour demands. Minimum system pressure is
proposed at 15 m by the consultant but in final design consideration will be
given to revising this to 10 m. The distribution systems are designed to
receive subsequent year by year extensions as necessary to serve additional
consumers and areas. The numbers of house connections and standpipes were
determined by estimating the relative portion of the population which could
afford house connections, and providing standpipes for the balance. Stand-
pipes will be in sufficient numbers so the farthest household served is less
than 250 meters away, and so each standpipe serves not more than 300 persons.
All connections would be metered to permit volumetric pricing and wastage
control.  The types of pipe materials will be selected on the basis of least
cost after competitive bidding and would probably be of PVC for service
/1 This report describes first stage facilities only. First and second
stage facilities are described in the feasibility study reports prepared
by the consultants.



- 16 -
connections and other small diameter needs, and of asbestos cenient and
ductile iron for larger diameter applications. In addition to the facilities
described later in this chapter, the projects for each city include service
connections, public standpipes, public bathhouses, fire hydrants, an adminis-
tration building, staff houses, and a shop/warehouse building. Details on
the project content for each city are in the Project File (Annex 10).
4.03      The consultants have recommended an initial rehabilitation program
of work for each of the Part A cities, which GOI has undertaken to finance
and implement in GOI FY's 78-80. The program (which is described in the
Project File, Annex 10) consists of repair and modification of those existing
facilities which would be integrated with facilities built under the proposed
project, and the conversion of exploration wells to production wells. During
negotiations GOI assured that it would expeditiously carry out the rehabili-
tation programs as recommended by the consultants or as modified in consulta-
tion with the Bank.
4.04      The subproject for Surabaya consists of transmission and distribu-
tion pipe to carry 500 lps of water produced by recently constructed source
and treatment works to existing and new consumers. It is a partial measure;
on completion in 1983 only 50% of the city's population would be served and
this would decline to 40% in 1987 if no additional capacity is added
(para 3.03). Therefore this project includes financing of a st-udy of the
feasibility of providing a major expansion of supply, treatment and distribu-
tion capacity which could form the basis of a subsequent lending operation.
Ambon (Map 12939)
4.05      Ambon has a population of about 90,000, is an international entry
point and the main port and capital of Maluku Province. It is the economic,
social and educational center of the region. The incidence of waterborne
disease in Ambon is about three times greater than the national average.
4.06      Existing Facilities.  Ambon's present water system was originally
constructed in 1925 and expanded in 1954 and in 1974. The service area is
about 4 sq km and serves about 14,000 persons through 2,500 connections,
about 30% of which are metered, and 6,000 through standpipes. Service is
intermittent. Three springs provide the public source as follows:
Spring name         Dry season flow       Wet season flow
    -------- (lps)/a  -------------
Air Besar                 26                       53
Air Keluar                16                      230
Batu Gajah               25                        50
/a At a per capita consumption of 100 1 per day (26 gallons) and
unaccounted-for water of 20%, a water source producing 1 lps
would serve about 700 consumers.



- 17 -
The collection structures at the springs are in good condition.  The water
quality is chemically and bacteriologically good. There are many private
shallow wells throughout the city and some springs on the outskirts which
serve nearby institutions and complexes.
4.07      The discharge from Air Besar spring is boosted over a hill by two
diesel generated electric powered pumps whose fuel is hand carried 1.5 km
each day.   The pumps are the only mechanical feature in the system, all
other flows are by gravity.
4.08      Ambon has four service reservoirs, all in generally good condition
and, with the exception of the reservoir at Batu Gajah, properly located and
elevated to serve as balancing storage between the transmission lines from
the springs and the distribution system. There are about 17 km of trans-
mission mains, all of cast iron and ranging in size from 100-300 mm. There
is an extensive network of 50 to 250 mm distribution pipes mostly of cast
iron dating to the nineteen twenties. Leakage is estimated at 30-50%.
4.09      Proposed System.  The consultants originally proposed a system
based upon the full development of the three existing springs, the development
of a fourth spring at Wai Nitu, plus a surface water source and treatment
plant on the Wai Lela River. The appraisal mission suggested that possibly
the projected demands for 1990 could be met at lower cost by springs and
groundwater, and that the Wai Lela development could be postponed to a later
stage. Accordingly GOI agreed that under the project the consultants would
first investigate, by drilling four wells and test pumping wells and springs,
the feasibility of meeting demands by spring and groundwater. Should this
prove unfeasible, the consultants would design and GOI would build, in
addition to the cheaper spring and groundwater sources, the Wai Lela River
source system. The cost estimates are based upon a system of spring and
groundwater sources and the Wai Lela River system.
4.10      The proposed works consist of a catchment basin and pump station
with three 40 horsepower electric motor driven pumps at Wai Nitu to yield
80 lps; four or more tubewells dependent upon results of the groundwater
investigation; chlorinators at each water source; booster pumps; four ground
level reinforced concrete reservoirs; and about 30 km of distribution and
transmission main ranging in diameter from 75 mm to 350 mm.
4.11       If the combination of spring and groundwater sources prove inad-
equate, additional works would be constructed. Their capacities would be a
function of the yields of the other sources, but would not exceed the capa-
cities shown below. The additional works are: a river intake structure at
Wai Lela; a low lift pump station, consisting of two electric motor driven
pumps, each having a capacity of 60 lps; a water treatment plant having a
nominal capacity of 60 lps; a high lift pump station, consisting of two 60 hp
electric motor driven pumps each having a capacity of 60 lps; a diesel
driven electric power generating station; and a submarine pipe crossing of
500 mm diameter.



- 18 -
Jember (Map 12940)
4.12      Jember is located in Eastern Java, 800 km east of Jakarta and 60 km
west of Banyuwangi, Java's eastern seaport. Jember serves as the commercial
center of the Regency of Jember. Agriculture dominates the economic activity
of the regency and the major products are rice, corn and soybeans. The
Jember administrative area has a population of about 230,000 and an area of
10,370 ha. The water master plan area, i.e., the area to be covered by water
service by 2000, comprises about 1,800 ha with a population of 110,000.
Waterborne diseases are common; 509 cases were reported in 1975.
4.13      Existing Facilities.   Jember's present water system was originally
constructed in 1930 and expanded in 1958 and 1976. It now consists of a
spring source at Telas (28 lps) and four free-flowing artesian wells (18 lps).
There are five booster pumps, four reservoirs of 830 cu m total capacity,
8,000 m of 75 to 350 mm transmission mains, 25,000 m of 60 to 220 mm distri-
bution mains, 1,800 connections of which about 90% are metered, 16 public
standpipes and 50 fire hydrants. About 22,000 persons receive water through
connections and 12,000 through standpipes, and the service is intermittent.
Unaccounted-for water is about 40%. Persons without access to the public
water supply use private wells or the Bedadung River.
4.14      Proposed System.  In addition to the Telas Spring (28 lps) and
two existing wells (which would be upgraded to yield 30 lps) the water
sources will consist of three new springs and about five new deep wells, as
follows:
Source                          Supply Capacity
(lps)
Telas Spring                              28
Sambersari Spring                          7
Taman Spring                              40
Glundengan Spring                          18
Deep wells (7)                            180
Flow from Sambersari and Clundengan springs would be collected and carried
through a common main to join the existing Telas Spring transmission main.
A new main would be required for Taman spring. Wells will be about 200 m deep,
with a 200 mm casing and screen. They will be equipped with a 30 horsepower
vertical turbine deep well pump and operate against a dynamic head of 50 to
60 m. Water treatment will be chlorination only. The project also includes
three service reservoirs, and about 80 km of transmission and distribution
mains.
Klaten (Map 12941)
4.15      Klaten, in Central Java, has a population of about 65,000.  It is
located about 450 km east of Jakarta and 20 km from the city of Yogyakarta,
which is the market for Klaten's products. Most economic activities are
agriculturally based and the only large industry is a sugar mill. Klaten has



- 19 -
no public water or sewerage facilities. At present water is obtained from
unsafe private shallow well sources.
4.16      Proposed System.  Three springs located 4 to 5 km northwest of the
city center would be developed under the project. Water rights have been
granted by the Provincial Irrigation Department in the following quantities:
Spring Name                     Quantity
(lps)
Geneng                            38
Lanang                            50
Tempel                            50
To compensate for present irrigation use of this water the project includes
rehabilitation of the existing 1.5 km irrigation channel from the MIalangjiwan
Irrigation Dam to Tempel Spring, plus the construction of an intake gate at
the spring.
4.17      A dual-celled concrete collection structure would be built at each
spring which would collect, regulate and direct flows. Each spring would be
equipped with chlorination facilities and flow measurement capability. The
flow from Tempel Spring would be boosted into the 6 km 400 mm transmission
main from Lanang Spring by two 20 horsepower electric driven vertical turbine
pumps mounted above the regulation chamber. A 25 kilovolt ampere diesel
engine generator located in the chlorination and control building would
provide power. Additional facilities include an elevated service reservoir
and about 70 km of transmission and distribution mains.
Pare-Pare (Map 12942)
4.18      Pare-Pare has a population of about 70,000, is a port city and is the
second most important trade center in South Sulawesi province. Farming, fishing
and shipping are the main economic activities.
4.19      Existing Facilities.  About 5,000 persons receive water service
through connections from the public system which operates for six to
twelve hours per day. The water sources are two springs and three shallow
wells. The Soreang Spring is located 3.0 km northeast of the city and
supplies 2.3 lps to the system, and the Takalao Spring is located 1.5 km east
of the city and supplies 1.7 lps. Both springs are capable of producing more
water but much is lost because of leakage and low transmission capacity.
There is a small slow sand filter plant at Soreang Spring and, at various
locations in the city, five service reservoirs with a total capacity of 436
cu m.   The treatment plant has deteriorated and is ineffective and the
distribution and transmission systems are in poor condition. Unaccounted for
water is estimated at 50-60%. Most of the existing system would be abandoned
under the project. Neither the spring nor the well water is chlorinated.
Persons not served by the public system use shallow wells as their water
source.



- 20 -
4.20      Proposed System.  Eleven 50 m deep, 10 lps wells and four 100 m
deep, 17 lps wells located in four well fields would be developed under the
project. Each well will be equipped with an electrically powered vertical
turbine deepwell pump and a flow meter totalizer. The wells would be equipped
with chlorinators, either individually or in groups. Two ground level service
reservoirs of 1,250 cu m capacity each and about 34 km of distribution and
transmission mains are also included in the project.
Purwakarta (Map 12943)
4.21      The town of Purwakarta, with about 80,000 residents, is situated in
a hilly region of West Java about 120 km east of Jakarta. It is the govern-
ment center of Purwakarta Regency and a rail and highway junction. The
Jatiluhur hydro power and irrigation dam, operated by the Jatiluhur Authority,
is located 8 km from Purwakarta. Three textile mills employing about 1,600
persons began operations in 1973-74 and the abundance of power and water in
the region is expected to have a positive effect upon growth.
4.22      There is no public water system in Purwakarta and most residents
obtain water from shallow wells. The Cikao River which flows through the
city is used for washing and bathing.
4.23      Proposed System.   A limited ground water exploration program under
the feasibility study contract of 1976 indicated insufficient ground water
resources for municipal needs, thus the feasibility report recommends the use
of the Citarum River as a source, with a conventional water treatment process.
Since groundwater would be cheaper both to exploit and to distribute (it
requires little or no treatment), another search for groundwater would be
conducted prior to the final design phase. Should the search prove successful,
the system would consist of wells with chlorinators, and a distribution system.
4.24      Alternatively, a surface water system would consist of a pump
station on the Citarum River just downstream of the Jatiluhur Dam. The
station would house three 250 horsepower, 80 lps vertical turbine pumps (one
serves as standby) and have space for a fourth. The intake will have four
bays, three of which would be equipped with stop boards, screens and sluice
gates. Water would be delivered to the proposed treatment plant through
a 1 km 400 mm main.
4.25      A conventional rapid sand filtration plant of 160 lps capacity
is proposed which would include rapid mix flocculation, sedimentation,
filtration and chlorination facilities and a 1,800 cu m clearwell. The
project also includes a 1,800 cu m reinforced concrete ground level storage
reservoir and 73 km of 50 to 450 mm distribution and transmission mains.
Tangerang (Map 12944)
4.26      Tangerang, with a population of about 75,000, is an industrial city
located 25 km west of Jakarta, to which it is linked by rail and highway. In
1976 there were 312 large industrial enterprises (textiles, synthetic fibers,
steel products) in the Regency of Tangerang. Under the officially adopted



i                             - 21 -
GOI urban development plan for Jakarta and its neighboring cities of Bogor,
Bekasi and Tangerang (known as the JABOTABEK Plan) Tangerang is designated
as a self supporting industrial center which would absorb economic activity
diffused from Jakarta.  The proposed international airport (reportedly under
final design) and a Perumnas /1 housing scheme would also be located in the
Regency; thus it is likely that the rapid growth of Tangerang would be
sustained and possibly accelerated.
4.27      Existing Facilities.  Tangerang's water system was built in 1925
and expanded in 1950, but since then it has deteriorated, the service area
has diminished and only six percent of the population is served. Service is
provided about 12 hours a day, and although the system is rated at about 8
lps, actual production is about 2 lps. Of the 53,000 persons in the central
town, less than 5,000 benefit from the public water system; the remainder take
their water from private wells and the river. The initial rehabilitation pro-
gram (para 4.03) is expected to increase production capacity to about 10 lps.
In addition GOI plans to build in 1980, for research as well as water supply
purposes, a 50 lps water treatment plant.
4.28      At the existing plant water flows by gravity from a concrete intake
located on the Cisadane River to a low lift pump station where three pumps
deliver it to the primary sedimentation basins at the treatment plant. A
second set of pumps then deliver the water to flocculation basins and filters
and a third set from the filtered water clearwell to a 300 cu m elevated storage
tank. All facilities are compactly located at a site adjacent to the river.
4.29      The distribution system consists of about 13 km of 63 to 150 mm
pipe most of which is in poor condition because of age. Unaccounted for
water is estimated at 40-50%. There are about 450 service connections.
4.30      Proposed System.  The proposed system is based upon a surface water
source from the Cisadane River and a rapid sand filtration plant located on a
10 ha site about 800 m south of the existing treatment plant site. Because of
age and deterioration existing facilities would be largely abandoned or
replaced.
4.31      A concrete intake structure of 1,000 lps capacity would be con-
structed on the east bank of the river south of the existing intake. A 500
lps low lift pumping station would deliver water to the 500 lps treatment
plant which would consist of, in series, rapid mix, flocculation and sedimen-
tation basins, rapid sand filters, an 8,000 cu m clear well, a high lift
pumping station and, additionally, lime, alum and chlorine feed facilities.
Two 500 cu m elevated service reservoirs would be constructed at Gerendeng
and Tanah Tinggi in the northern part of the city, and these would, in the
next stage, be supplemented by ground level storage at the same sites.
Approximately 65 km of 75 to 900 mm distribution and transmission mains are
also included in the project.
/1 Perumnas - the National Housing Authority.



- 22 -
Surabaya
4.32      Surabaya has a population of about 2.5 million persons.  Only 17%
(0.4 million persons) are served by connections and 25% (0.6 million persons)
through resale by householders and vendors using water supplied by the WE.
The remaining 1.5 million people are served by shallow wells producing low
quantities of water of questionable quality. Surabaya is the provincial
capital of East Java, heavily industrialized and is expected to have 5 mil-
lion people by the year 2000. There is no doubt that the water situation
is adversely affecting public health, the quality of life and industrial
growth.
4.33      Existing Facilities.  The original water system was built in 1903
and used as a water source two springs located about 40 km south of the city.
In 1922 that system was augmented by a water treatment plant at Ngagel
(within Surabaya) which draws water from the Surabaya River. Subsequently
additional springs were added and treatment plant expansions carried out, the
latest being an expansion of 500 lps of treatment capacity (raising total
production capacity to 2,200 lps) at Ngagel which was completed in 1978. The
distribution system consists of about 120 km of transmission mains and over
300 km of distribution piping ranging in size from 100 to 900 mm diameter.
Of the 66,000 total connections about 51,000 are residential, including about
4,000 from which water is resold to persons who do not have connections; the
balance is for commerce, industry, government and social and religious
institutions.
4.34      Proposed System.  The proposed system would complement the recently
completed 500 lps source and treatment works with a commensurate expansion of
transmission and distribution capacity. Its objective is to bring service to
the eastern part of the city and improve service elsewhere, particularly in
the northern part of the city. This physical work would be precisely defined
during the course of a predesign study whose objective would be to optimize
the choice of pipeline materials, diameters and routes.  For estimating
purposes, the routes and diameters presented in the 1976 water supply Master
Plan have been employed and consist of 17 km of transmission pipelines of
500-1,500 mm diameter and 56 km of distribution pipelines 100-300 mm diameter.
(A plan of the proposed system is in the Project File, Annex 10). Two
thousand public standpipes and 18,000 house connections would be added to the
system under the project.
Project Description
4.35      Part A of the project consists of equipment supply and civil works
construction for the water supply system in each of the Part A cities as
described above, and engineering consultants for design and construction
supervision. Part B is for equipment supply and civil works construction for
the Surabaya water supply system, and engineering consultants for the pre-
design study, design and construction supervision of the Surabaya system.
Part C is for management and technical assistance to the WEs and DSE on
organizational matters, management systems and operations. Part D is for
reconnaissance and feasibility studies for the future water supply projects
including the expansion of the system capacity of Surabaya. Part E is for
training.



- 23 -
Cost Estimates
4.36      The total estimated cost of the project is summarized below in the
table on page 24. Itemized year by year project costs for Parts A and B for
each WE are shown in Annex 1.
4.37      The costs for civil works and equipment are consultants' estimates
based on preliminary design for the water works, relevant international and
domestic unit prices, and unit prices for similar projects in other places
adjusted for local conditions in the seven cities. The physical contingency
allowance of 18% is a weighted average for various categories of work and
takes into account the relative precision of the cost estimates, the nature
of the work (some of which is subsurface and of relatively greater uncertainty)
and the complexity of the work (i.e. relatively complex treatment plants vs
simple building construction). Price contingencies applied to the March 1979
base prices (including physical contingencies) are, for local costs beginning
with 1979, 30%; 1980, 20%; 1981 and 1982, 15% and thereafter 10% annually
(reflecting the expected increase in local inflation rates following the
recent devaluation as well as recent experience with similar contracts in the
sector); and for foreign costs, 7% annually. The cost estimates do not
include any duties or taxes on imported goods financed under the proposed
loan since DSE is exempted by GOI from such charges.
4.38      The costs for detailed engineering for the Part A cities are based
on the contract between DSE and the consultants, and the costs for construc-
tion supervision are consultants' estimates based on the length of the
construction period and manpower requirements. Local engineering costs for
the Surabaya subproject are estimated as percentages of estimated construc-
tion costs, 3% for design and 5% for construction supervision. Foreign
engineering costs for Surabaya are estimated on a man-month basis. The costs
for management and technical assistance are based on a draft contract, and
the costs for reconnaissance and feasibility studies are based on actual
costs for earlier studies adjusted for inflation. Training costs are as
estimated by Bank staff. Technical assistance and training costs are tabu-
lated in page 8 of Annex 1.
Financing
4.39      A Bank loan is proposed in the amount of US$36.0 million.  This
is equivalent to the full foreign exchange cost of the project or about 56%
of the total project cost of US$63.7 million. US$32.8 million of the pro-
ceeds of the loan would be made available by GOI to WEs at terms specified
in project financing agreements (paras 5.10 and 5.40) and the remaining
US$3.2 million would be used by GOI to finance the technical assistance
services related to the project.
4.40      The project would be financed by proceeds from the Bank loan, GOI
loans and equity, internal cash generation of the WEs and consumer contribu-
tions as detailed in paras 5.09-5.010 and 5.40. In view of the urgency to
commence the projects, detailed engineering for the Part A cities started in
June 1978. It is proposed that IBRD reimburse the expenditures after June 1,
1978, for consultant services. The total retroactive financing involved will
not exceed US$1.5 million.



- 24 -
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Date: 4/17/79
X OF PROJECT COSTS
LOCAL   FOREIGN      TOTAL         LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL           LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL         X OF TOTAL
PROJECT
Rp. Million                       US$ Millio.                                                   COST
PART A - WATER SUPPLY CDNSTRUCTION
IN SIX CITIES
AMBON
CIVIL WORKS                             949.6     359.0   1,308.6            1.52     0.57   2.09             20         7      27
EQUIPMENT ANI' SUPPLIES                 121.7     915.5   1,037.2           0.19      1.46   1.66              3        19      22
ENGINEERING                             118.2     395.4      513.6           0.19     0.63   0.82              2         a      11
CONTINGENCIES                        1,269.3      663.1   1,932.4            2.03     1.06   3.09             26        14      40
LAND                                     12.0                 12.0          0.02              0.02
TOTAL                              2,470.8   2,333.0   4,803.8             3.95     3.73   7.69             TI        49    100                 02
JEMBER
CIVIL WORKS                             720.8     225.7      946.5           0.15     0.36   1.51             1B         6      24
EQUIFPENT AND SUPF'LIES                 141.4   1,060.5   1,201.9            0.23      1.70   1.92             4        27      30
ENGINEERING                              958.7     323.1     421.8           0.16     0.52   0.67              2         a      11
CONTINGENCIES                           841.5      525.8   1,367.3           1.35     0.84   2.19             21        13      34
LANE'                                    31.9                  30.9          0.05             0.05             I                 1
TOTAL                               1,834.3   2,135.1   3,969.4           2.93      3.42   6.35             46        54    100                 10
KLATEN
CIVIL WORKS                             476.0      89.7      565.7           0.76     0.14   0.91             15         3      1S
EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES                  127.4     995.5   1,122.9           0.20      1.59   1.80              4        32     36
ENGINEERING                              76.4     248.9      325.3           0.12     0.40   0.52              2         8      10
CONTINGENCIES                           678.4     436.9   1,115.3            1.09     0.70   1.78             22        14      35
LAND                                     21.6                 21.6           0.03             0.03             1                 1
TOTAL                              1,379.8   1,771.0   3,150.8            2.21      2.83   5.04             44        56    100                  S
PARE-PARE
CIVIL WORKS                             502.1      184.3     686.4           0.80     0.29   1.10             1B         7     25
EGUIFMENT AND SUPF'LIES                  89.4     710.0      799.4           0.14     1.14   1.28              3        26      29
ENGINEERING                              68.1     223.4      291.5           0.11     0.36   0.47              2         B      11
CONTINGENCIES                           563.7     369.0      932.7           0.90     0.59   1.49             21        13      34
LANID                                    31.1                 31.1           0.05             0.05             1                 1
TOTAL                              1,254.4   1,486.7   2,741.1            2.01      2.38   4.39             46        54    100                 7
F'URWAKARTA
CIVIL WORKS                             884.8     377.3   1,262.1            1.42     0.60   2.02             16         7      23
EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES                  173.3   1,378.4   1,551.7            0.28     2.21   2.48              3        25      28
ENGINEERING                             129.9     440.3      570.2           0.21     0.70   0.91              2         a      10
CONTINGENCIES                         1,233.7     886.2   2,119.9            1.97     1.42   3.39             22        16      38
LAND                                     41.5                 41.5           0.07             0.07             1                 1
TOTAL                              2,463.2   3,082.2   5,545.4            3.94      4.93   8.87             44        56    100                14
TANGERANG
CIVIL WORKS                           1,234.2     753.7   1,987.9            1.97     1.21   3.18             17        11      28
EGUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES                  212.1   1,825.4   2,037.5           0.34      2.92   3.26              3        26      28
ENGINEERING                             180.2     577.5      757.7           0.29     0.92   1.21              3         8      11
CONTINGENCIES                         1,322.3   1,019.9   2,342.2            2.12     1.63   3.75             18        14      33
LAND                                     32.1                 32.1           0.05             0.05
TOTAL                              2,980.9   4,176.5   7,157.4            4.77      6.68  11.45             42        55    100                 1S
SUMMARY SIX CITIES
CIVIL WORKS                           4,767.5   1,989.7   6,757.2            7.63     3.18  10.81             17         7      25
EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES                  865.3   6,885.3   7,750.6            1.38    11.02  12.40              3        25      28
ENGINEERING                             671.5   2,208.6   2,880.1            1.07     3.53   4.61              2         8      i1
CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL                           1,135.0   1,995.3   3,130.3            1.82      3.19   5.01              4         7      11
F'RICE                             4,773.9   1,905.6   6,679.5            7.64      3.05  10.69             17         7     24
LAND                                    170.2                170.2           0.27             0.27             1                 1
TOTAL F'ART A                     12,383.4  14,984.5  27,367.9           19.81    23.98  43.79              45        05    100                69
PART B - WATER SUPF'LY CONSTRUCTION
IN SURABAYA
CIVIL WORKS                             982.0       95.0   1,077.0           1.57     0.15   1.72             11         1      12
EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES                  438.0   3,956.0   4,394.0            0.70     6.33   7.03              5        43      48
ENGINEERING                             438.0      120.0     558.0           0.70     0.19   0.89              5         1       6
CONTINGENCIES                         1,723.3   1,349.0   3,072.3            2.76     2.16   4.92             19        15      33
LAND                                    103.0                103.0           0.16             0.16             1                 1
TOTAL PART B                       3,684.3   5,520.0   9,204.3            5.89      8.83  14.73             40        60    100                23
PART C MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                              329.0     916.0   1,245.0            0,53      1.47   1.99                                                 3
PART D RECONNAISSANCE AND
FEASIBILITY STUDIES                     250.0     344.0      594.0           0.40     0.55   0.95                                                  L
PART E TRAINING                           691.0      738.0   1,429.0           1,11      1.18   2.29                                                 A
TOTAL F'ROJECT COST                   17,337,7  22,502.5  39,840.2           27.74    36.00  63.74              44        56    100                L(O
NUMBERS MAY NOT TALLY DUE TO ROUNDING



- 25 -
Implementation
4.41      The Part A subprojects would be carried out over the period 1979-84
(with physical work completed by June 30, 1984) in accordance with the imple-
mentation schedule shown in Chart 19558 at the end of this chapter. The
Surabaya subproject would be carried out over the period 1980-83 (Chart _).
DSE would be responsible for the projects in the seven cities but the WEs
would be consulted on matters such as pipeline routes and facility locations.
Since DSE's engineering capacity is overtaxed, the firm of James M. Montgomery
(JMM) Consulting Engineers Inc., U.S.A. (which prepared the feasibility
studies), have been engaged for detailed design and tender document prepara-
tion for the Part A subprojects. Under the design contract JMM has subcon-
tracted part of the work to a local firm, P.T. Sangkuriang, but maintains
full responsibility for all work. This arrangement is satisfactory. Consul-
tants, as yet not selected, would also be employed for the Surabaya sub-
project and for tender evaluation and construction supervision on all sub-
projects. Since some project components were modified during appraisal, GOI
agreed that DSE would submit to the Bank for its review design memoranda and
detailed designs prepared by the consultants before preparing tender docu-
ments. In the First Project, delays in negotiating a construction supervi-
sion contract caused a delay in the overall project, thus agreement was reached
that GOI would sign contracts with consultants acceptable to the Bank for the
Surabaya predesign study and design (para 4.34) and for tender evaluation
and construction supervision services for all of the subprojects prior to
loan effectiveness.
4.42      For feasibility studies and designs for future rural and urban water
supply projects, including the Surabaya system expansion study, consultants
would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts for this work would be signed by March 31, 1980.
4.43      The project contains an estimated 1,500 man-months of engineering,
management and training consulting services by foreign and local firms and
individuals. The estimated cost of these services, which include test well
drilling and physical contingencies is US$10.9 million. The man-month costs
for Indonesian personnel would range from Rp 460,000-650,000 (US$750-1,100),
and for foreign personnel, US$5,500-9,000./I Bank and WHO staff would assist
GOI in the preparation of feasibility study terms of reference and the
selection of areas for future projects. The Bank staff would also help
monitor the project works, training program and the work of consultants.
Two supervision missions a year are anticipated.
Procurement
4.44      DSE would be in charge of all procurement.  1Materials and equipment
contracts estimated to exceed $50,000 in value and financed out of the
proceeds of the loan (with a total value of about US$25 million) would be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. These contracts will be grouped conveniently to attract a wide
/1 Includes salary, social costs, overhead, fee, overseas allowance and
housing. Excludes travel.



- 26 -
range of manufacturers and to get the advantages of bulk deliveries. For bid
comparisons, a domestic preference of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the applic-
able custom duties, whichever is lower, will be allowed to domestic manufac-
turers over competing foreign bidders. Local manufacturers are expected to
compete for the supply of items such as PVC and asbestos pipes which would
cost about US$3.5 million. Off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000
each and in aggregate up to US$200,000 would be purchased under reasonable
and competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for materials
and equipment up to US$50,000 in value and in aggregate up to US$500,000
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
following GOI procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for
materials and equipment estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review before bidding and award.
4.45      The total value of civil works is about US$20 million.  Contracts
would generally range in value from US$100,000 to US$1 million (with the
exception of one contract which may exceed US$2 million) and the smaller ones
would be grouped to form attractive bid packages. Because of the size of
contracts and the dispersed nature of works involved, contracts for civil
works estimated to cost less than US$1 million would be awarded following
local advertisement and competitive bidding in accordance with GOI procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank. Indonesia has a well-developed construction
industry and foreign firms not already established in the country are not
likely to bid on these contracts, but foreign firms or joint ventures meeting
the requirements for doing business in Indonesia would be free to participate.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost in excess of US$1 million would
be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines and those estimated to cost in excess of US$300,000 would be
submitted to the Bank for review before bidding and award. Due to the
complexity of GOI procedures for contracting and funding civil works, and
in view of the large number of small and geographically dispersed contracts,
disbursements from the proposed loan would be made only against civil works
contracts costing more than US$300,000 (see below). To minimize delays in
construction, agreement was reached that invitations to bid for civil works
contracts which extend for more than one year would be issued as bid docu-
ments are completed and that bids would be received and processed without
waiting for the project implementation budget (DIP) to be signed; contract
award and signing would be done after the DIP is approved. Price escalation
clauses would be included in civil works contracts procured by international
competitive bidding.
Disbursement
4.46      The loan would be disbursed over the period 1979-84.  Disbursements
would be made against: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported
equipment, or 95% of exfactory cost of locally manufactured equipment procured
by international bidding; (b) 65% of local expenditures for imported equip-
ment procured locally; (c) 50% of the total cost of civil works contracts
costing in excess of US$300,000; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of
local expenditures for consultants; and (e) 100% of the cost of overseas
fellowships and 50% of the cost of local fellowships. The Closing Date of
the loan would be December 31, 1984. The quarterly disbursement schedule is
shown below.



- 27 -
QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Bank FY and      Cumulative    % of   Bank FY and         Cumulative      % of
quarter ending  disbursement  total  quarter ending  disbursement   total
1980                                    1983
9/30/82            21.4            60
12/31/79             1.4          4     12/31/82             24.5            68
3/31/80             1.8          5      3/31/83             27.0            75
6/30/80            2.0           6      6/30/83             29.7           83
1981                                    1984
9/30/80            2.4           7      9/30/83             32.1            89
12/31/80            3.0           8     12/31/83             33.8           94
3/31/81            4.0          11      3/31/84             34.9           97
6/30/81            5.3          15      6/30/84             35.5           99
1982                                    1985
9/30/81            7.3         20       9/30/84             36.0          100
12/31/81           10.4         29
3/31/82           13.9          39
6/30/82           17.6         49
4.47       In the event that the amounts to be disbursed total less than the
amount of the loan, the unused balance would be disbursed, as approved by the
Bank, against the purchase of pipe and service connection materials for the
national water supply program, additional consulting services for future
projects, or the continuation of the training program.
Environmental Aspects
4.48       By introducing or expanding the provision of potable water to sub-
stantial proportions of the populations, the project will result in improved
personal hygene and Dublic health and reduce fire hazards. The public
bathhouses, with facilities for bathing, laundering and human waste disposal,
will reduce dependence upor. ezisting substandard facilities.  The additional
water will increase wastewater quantities a-l these will have to be disposed
of properly.  None oi- the cities have sewers, and drainage facilities are
generally .n need of expansion and rehabilitation.
4.49       The need for wastewater facilities wil', for the first time,
receive recognition in PELITA III (FY80-84) when agencies would plaa such
facilities.  Since wastewater removal technology is simple and requires
largely indigenous materials, local government initiatives would be largely
relied upon to alleviate wastewater problems.  This will free overburdened
GOI staff to continue their more important work of bringing potable water
service to those who do not have it.



- 28 -
4.50      The Bank's rapidly expanding urban project activities in Indonesia
generally include improvements to drainage and solid waste systems (though of
the seven project cities covered by the proposed loan only the city of
Surabaya is covered by an ongoing urban loan). As the water supply sector
develops, the scope of subsequent Bank loans should be progressively expanded
to include wastewater activities. This will require clarification of insti-
tutional responsibilities and the development of local government agencies so
they can bear the bulk of preparation and implementation work. Meanwhile,
the Bank is working with GOI on the identification, development and diffu-
sion of low-cost waste disposal systems under research project RPO 671-46,
Appropriate Technology for Water Supply and Waste Disposal.



Ambon
INDONESIA                                                              Jember
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                            Klaten
Activity Schedule                                                         Pare-Pare
Subproject for Part A Cities                                                     Tangerang
Calendar Year         1978                 1979                  1980                  1981                 1982                   1983                  1984
Activity                                      ___                                                      _                                                                  - _            __
Quarter   1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   1 1   12   13   14   15   16   17  18   19   20   21   22   23   24   25   26   27   2
IBRD  oan
ENGINEERING                                                              * Effective                                                                                             IBIRD Loan
Investigation (Ambon, Purvvakarta)                                                                                                                                              Closing DateI
Su rvey_                                                    _     _    _
Design                                            _ _       _
Tender Documents                                            _    -    -    -    -
Construction Supervision-                                              -     --              -    -     ---                        -    -     -    -     -    --
EQUIPMENT SUPPLY                                                                              T                    FD   _
Water Treatment Plant                                                                                  = I    I             l I _  I ,hi                                                    I
(Purwakarta, Tangerang)                                                          T               FD                I
Pumps, Motors, Controllers                                                                 0 4         0 1    a t                                                                            I
Well Screens and Casings                                                          T         I I FD :11-111  111 g *! | FD     at
WVell Pumps and Motors                                                                       ED TFIW I   D1
Pipes                                                                                        I                        IT  .    .   I III II    I lll |||;|                  l     l  
Chlorinators                                                                           U     I              NIN   son NINE
Meters and Connections                                                                             I B rt   a r  III a11l   al  t tih t   tl  t III  tta
Laboratory Equipment                                                                              UI                       Emil
CIVIL WORKS
Spring Development                                                        lllro  w       -1l|
(Ambon, Jember)                                                             T                  |
Well Construction
Water Treatment Plant and Intake                                                              w                             l l       monni r.
(Purwakarta, Tangerang)                                                                     T                                    C
Pumping Stations                                                                             TI                                   C  ~
Transmission and Distribution Main                                                                                C
Reservoirs                                                                                   T
Service Connections
Bathhouses, Laboratories, Warehouses
Startup                                                                                                                                            -                    -m
&W,eriA  T         Tender, Evaluate, Award            *iu.aami   I  =  Install
* I _    U * FD     Fabrication and Delivery                    _    S  =  Startup
_mmo  _wIM  C      Construct                                                                                                       World Bank - 19558






INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY
Activity Schedule
Surabaya Subproject
Calendar Year         1978                  1979                 1980                  1981                 1982                  1983                  1984
Pre-DesignrasX                                                                                                t          C                                i    Closi ng Date
Tencler Documents                                                             _                                        
Constructon Supervi sion 
Q                                 Install Service Connections  1                           1             1    t    1                       0 21   2    2    2
MrAW IA.  T   =Tender, Evaluate, Award
FD  =  Fabrication and Delivery
_                      EC   =  Construct
saaaaI   =  Install
World Bank -2034?






- 29 -
5. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Part A - Six Cities
5.01      As previously discussed, under Part A of the project the Bank will
assist in the financing of complete water supply systems in the six cities of
Ambon, Jember, Klaten, Pare-Pare, Purwakarta and Tangerang. The financial
aspects of Part A are set forth in this section of the Report.
Record of Finances
5.02      The accounts of the water supply units in the four cities with
existing works have been parts of the local government systems. They have
been kept on a cash receipts and disbursements basis, which do not account
for such items as receivables, payables, inventories, fixed assets or depre-
ciation. Review of the finances of the present systems and preparation of
the normal financial statements and projections have been constrained by the
lack of basic data. The financial information presented is necessarily based
to a considerable extent on assumptions which will be tested as the project
develops.
5.03      The following table summarizes for the local governments' fiscal
year 1976/77 the operating results for water supply in each of the four
cities with existing works. These summaries have been constructed from
available information secured from the respective cities. Wages and other
expenses for water supply which have been paid from national or local govern-
ment budgets have been included.
FISCAL YEAR 1976/77 - Rp millions
Ambon  Jember   Pare-Pare   Tangerang
Revenue                      10.8      8.1      2.7           0.9
Wages                         9.1      5.6       5.7           3.2
Other cash expense            4.0      1.1      0.8           3.1
Total cash expense         13.1     6.7       6.5           6.3
Surplus (deficit)
before depreciation        (2.3)    1.4      (3.8)         (5.4)
5.04      Ambon, Pare-Pare and Tangerang incurred operating deficits in
fiscal 1976/77 for water supply before any provisions for depreciation.
These deficits were met from local government receipts from other sources.
Jember, on the same basis, had a small surplus. The estimates of revenues
and expenses for the year 1978 (included in the projections for 1978-87 in
Annexes 2-A to 7-A) show that the Ambon, Pare-Pare and Tangerang WEs would



- 30 -
also incur moderate cash deficits in 1978, which would be covered by equity
funds from the local governments; Jember is expected to meet its operating
expense from its revenue. Two major factors which have contributed to poor
operating results are the very low water rates charged and the high level of
unaccounted-for water (estimated to range from about 40% -60% of water
production). Measures to be taken under the project to increase water rates
gradually and to reduce unaccounted-for water through metering, leak detec-
tion, pipe replacement and the construction of new and modern facilities will
correct these shortcomings.
5.05      In view of the lack of records of historical costs and physical
data, the amount of fixed assets in the initial balance sheet of each W4E as
of December 31, 1978 (included with the projected balance sheets for 1978-87
in Annexes 2-C to 7-C) was estimated by the consultants from available
records and physical inspections at replacement cost, less allowance for
depreciation, and adjustment has been made for the effect of the devaluation
of the rupiah in November 1978. Most of the fixed assets of the WEs are old
and of uncertain age, and they are of small value in relation to the property
additions proposed under the project.
Transfers of Assets to WEs
5.06      A WE has been authorized by municipal ordinance in each of the
project cities to take over the assets and liabilities and the functions of
the unit of the local government which relate to water supply (para 2.07)
and the initial equity will be owned by the local government. The WE, under
the direction of its supervisory board, will perform the water supply functions
in the city and will account separately for its operations and finances.
5.07.     Management consultants financed under the proposed loan (para 2.19)
will assist each WE in preparing opening and periodic financial statements on
a commercial accounting basis and in establishing and maintaining proper
accounting and management systems. They will also assist in identifying,
valuing and classifying the fixed assets and other assets for the opening
balance sheet.
Financing Plan
5.08      Projections of annual flow of funds for 1978-87 for each of the six
WEs under Part A of the project are shown in Annexes 2-B to 7-B.  The financ-
ing plan for each WE under Part A and combined for the six, for the project
construction period 1979-84, as summarized from the flow of funds projections
for those years, is shown in the table on page 31.
5.09      The combined figures shown for the six Part A WEs in the financing
plan indicate that the total capital requirements would be provided as
follows: US$24 million or 52% (about 55% of the project costs) by the
allocation from the proposed Bank loan; US$1.4 million or 3% by GOI loans;
US$14 million/l or 31% by payments made by GOI through the local governments
/1 US$18.4 million less US$4.4 million repayments to GOI through the local
governments by the WEs from funds generated internally.



INDONESIA
SECOND U0ATER UPPLY PROJECT
i .n..in_g Pln for UTs Under Part A, 1979-84
Salo                          eae -ae                                                      Par-Pare                        Par-aart                         TaSixg                        l   Ra roeblned _
___              _    _                                                                                                                _,_  _                                                              __
Rp ale   00b$ ae    0          Rp rle  U1S$ ala               ROp ala   10$ ala    Z          Rp ala   0S$ ala                Op ala       0S$ ala               Rp ala  U0$ ala       X         Op  kla    U5$ ala
Applicat4aa af Feade
Project caat (port A)       4,803.8    7.69      96.7      3,969.4    6.35       96.5      3,150.8    5.04      96.6      2,741.1    4.39       95.2       5,545.4       8.87      97.3      7,157.4   11.45       93.4      27,367.9   43.79       95.7
lOner  -orka                   57.0    0.09        1.2         34.0    0.06       0.8         19.0    0.03        0.6         39.0    0.06       1.4          51.0       0.08       0.9        280.0    0.45        3.6         480.0    0.77        1.7
locking capital               103.7    0.16        2.1        109.7    0.17       2.7         90.0    0.14        2.8         97.9    0.16       3.4         105.7       0.17       1.8        228.7    0.37        3.0         735.7    1.17        2.6
Total appli-ati-os       4,964.5    7.94    100.0       4,113.1    6.58    100.0        3219.       5.21    100.0      2,878.      4.61    100.0        5,702.1       9.12    100.0       7,666.1   12.27    100.0        28,583.6   45.73    100.0
S--ce  of Funds
I3RD loot praceeda /a       2,333.0    3.73      47.0      2,135.1    3.42       51.9      1,771.0    2.84      54.3      1,486.7    2.38       51.7       3,082.2       4.93      54.0      4,176.5    6.68       54.5      14,984.5   23.98       52.4
CCI lnsoa  /a                 549.3    0.88       11.1        246.5    0.39       6.0        119.5    0.19        3.7        158.0    0.25       5.5        (309.5)/b  (0.49)    (5.4)         117.9    0.19        1.5         881.7    1.41        3.1
local govranaent eqaity:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -,
Pro/cot Ic                1,921.5    3.07      38.7      1,587.8    2.54       38.6      1,260.3    2.01      38.7      1,096.4    1.76       38.1       2,772.7       4.43      48.8      2,862.9    4.58       37.4      11,501.6   18.40       40.2
Lots repayment, by W5a (516.5)  (0.83)   (10.4)         (522.8)  (0.84)   (12.7)        (458.3)  (0.73)   (14.1)       (447.6)  (0.72)   (15.6)         (220.5)    (0.35)    (3.9)        (583.6)  (0.93)    (7.6)    (2,749.3)  (4.40)    (9.6)
Other                        22.0    0.04       0.4           -       -          -          26.0    0.04       D.8         36.9    0.06        1.3          41.2       0.06       0.7         40.5    0.07        0.5         166.6    0.27        0.6
tn-octal  -ath generattno     593.3    0.95       12.0       522.1    0.84       12.7        440.3    0.70       13.5       455.8    0.73       15.8         206.9       0.33       3.6         859.0    1.37      11.2       3,077.4    4.92        10.8
Lrns., co cntribntionn         61.9    0.10        1.2       144.4    0.23        3.5        101.0    0.16       3.1          91.8    0.15       3.2         129.1       0.21       2.2         192.9    0.31       2.5         721.1    1.15         2.5
TuLta sonrcea           4,964.5    7.94       00.0      4,113.1    6.58    100.0    _3259.8    5.21    1C0.0            ,878.0    4.61      100.0       5,702.1       9.12    100.0       7,666.1   12.27    188.0        28,583.6   45.73    000.0
IE  Repyreat af I0-na  and pay ..ta of iatereat by aoo to GOI noorsence in 1985 after the end of thc grace period.
/b  Thc  8ERD loan penceeda are estinactd tu  -ceed the GOI loan  to Poroalocco by this a=ouot, whtdc  wli  be paid by GOI thrt-gh the local gasar-meat to the
WE an local 8-oecnag-t eqity.
/ R Ospreesets pypatat  of project f-nda by GO1  th-rogh the local govn-noat to the WE as local go-ernaet equity.






- 32 -
to the WEs as local government equity; US$4.9 million or 11% by internal cash
generation from WE operations; and US$1.2 million or 3% from consumer contribu-
tions for service connections. Comparable figures are shown in the financing
plan for each WE individually. The proposed financing plan is satisfactory.
5.10      The financing plan is based on understandings reached with GOI
during negotiations as to the terms. US$24 million of the proceeds of the
Bank loan, together with other Government funds, will be loaned by GOI to
the WEs at an annual interest rate of 9% and the loans will be repayable in
equal payments of principal and interest over 29-1/2 years, including a
crace period of approximately 5-1/2 years /1 for the payment of principal,
during which the interest will be waived. GOI will lend to each WE 60% of
the project costs and will make available to the WE in the form of equity
of the local government the remaining 40% of the project costs, except that
for Purwakarta such percentages will be 50% and 50%, respectively. Any
surplus amounts which the WE is able to generate internally during the
grace period will be repaid annually to GOI through the local government in
reduction of the balance of the funds made available in the form of equity.
GOI will bear the foreign exchange risk on the funds made available to the
WE's. The annual domestic rate of inflation in Indonesia moderated in
recent years from about 20% in 1975 to 14% in 1976, 12% in 1977 and 8% in
1978 but is expected in the medium term to increase (para 4.37), taking
into account the devaluation of the rupiah from 415 to 625 per US$ in
November 1978. Interest rates charged by domestic lending institutions for
types of loans broadly similar to those in the water supply sector are
currently about 12-15%. The proposed terms of relending, including the
interest rate of 9% and the waiver of interest during the grace period, are
nevertheless considered to be appropriate and follow the pattern adopted
for the First Water Supply Loan (1049-IND). More stringent relending
terms would result in larger debt service, requiring increases in water
rates beyond those which consumers could afford to pay (paras 5.19-5.22,
6.06), or would require a commensurate lowering of the proposed percentage
of loans to the WE's and an increase in the amounts to be made avilable to
them as equity.
5.11      During negotiations, agreement was reached that distributions of
assets and payments of dividends by the WEs will be limited (a) during the
grace period for the GOI loans to the repayment of surplus cash to GOI
(para. 5.10), and (b) thereafter to the amounts of retained earnings of the
WEs determined in accordance with generally accepted principles of accounting
but only to the extent such amounts are surplus to the operational, debt
service and investment requirements of the lJEs.
5.12      The estimates of project costs are based on the best information
available at this time. However, understandings were reached with GOI
that (a) should there be increases in project costs, GOI would provide any
funds needed to complete the project on time, and (b) GOI would ensure that
the WEs have sufficient funds to meet any of their obligations through 1984.
/1 The grace period on the GOI loans will extend from the date of the project
loan agreements between GOI and the WEs, assumed to be in June 1979, to
December 31, 1984.






- 33 -
Financial Projections
5.13      The assumptions underlying the financial projections in Annexes 2-7
for the six cities under Part A of the project are detailed in Annex 8.
5.14      On the basis of the study of the organization of each WE made by
the management consultants, increases in the number of staff are forecast
over the project period to provide sufficient staff to implement the expansion
and improvement program. Increases in rates of compensation designed to
enable the WEs to employ adequate staff with the necessary skills are also
projected. However, in some cities compensation has been based in part on a
proportion of revenues. Since in the future considerable increase in revenues
is expected, understanding has been reached with GOI that staff compensation
of any WE will not be directly linked to the level of its revenues.
5.15      There is no insurance coverage on the properties of the water
systems.  Allowance has been made in the expense estimates for reasonable
administrative costs, including insurance coverage. Understanding was
reached with GOI that adequate provision will be made for insurance of the
goods to be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan and to cover other
risks of the WEs consistent with appropriate practices.
5.16      The projected water consumption figures assume increased avail-
ability of water through gradual reductions in unaccounted-for water as
leakage detection measures are taken and new facilities are placed in service.
The percentages for the individual WEs appear in the statements of income
(Annexes 2-A to 7-A). In view of the existence in the water systems of
defective meters and the lack of meters, the present loss percentages are
rough estimates. The projects include provisions for bulk and customer
meters, leakage detection equipment, meter repair shops, replacements of old
pipeline, and on-the-job training by the consultants for a continuing program
of leakage detection and repairs. Understanding was reached with GOI
that each WE will establish a leakage detection and waste control unit with
the primary responsibility for detecting and repairing leaks, controlling
waste and reporting to management periodically on the progress made toward
the goals etablished in the projects for the reduction of unaccounted-for
water.
5.17      The projected expenses of the WEs include estimated income taxes
payable to GOI by them as Perusahaan Daerahs at the annual rate of approx-
imately 25% of taxable net income (net income before the deduction of taxes
on income).
Water Rates and Billings
5.18      A schedule of existing water rates for each of the present water
systems is included in the Project File (Annex 10). The rate schedules
depend in part on whether the connections are metered. About 30% of the
connections in Ambon have working meters, 90% in Jember, 70% in Tangerang and
none in Pare-Pare. As a part of the project or initial rehabilitation
programs, all connections will be equipped with working meters. At present
the schedules prescribe flat monthly rates for unmetered connections, based



- 34 -
on the number of faucets or the type or size of connection. For metered
service, separate rates are usually specified for residential service and
other classes of service such as commercial, industrial, government agencies
and social and religious institutions. Rates are usually lowest for
residential service, except for those charged to the institutions, and are
generally graduated upward for increased use in order to extend available
supply and reduce waste. M1inimum charges and meter rentals are also levied
in some cases. The overall effect of the present rate schedules is reflected
in the average revenue per cubic meter (cu m) of water sold which, given the
limited reliability of the available information on production and consumption
of water, is estimated at about Rp 12 per cu m for Ambon; Rp 19 for Jember;
Rp 22 for Pare-Pare; and Rp 30 for Tangerang. An extension of the principle
of graduated water rates based on quantity use and ability to pay has been
prescribed in GOI's guidelines for national standard water rate structure for
WEs, which will be followed in setting future water rates (para 5.23).
5.19      It is clear from the financial statements and projections that
sizeable water rate increases will be required to enable the WEs to meet the
needs of their proposed financing plans. The question of reasonable and
sustainable future rate levels is one of the most difficult in view of the
uncertainties as to demand, income patterns and capabilities of paying for
service. The problem is compounded by the availability of alternative,
although unsafe, sources of water from shallow wells and streams. However,
the view was expressed by GOI and local managements that substantial rate
increases can be sustained under a program of improved service, if introduced
over a period of years as assumed.
5.20      The present level of water rates, which will be continued through
the year 1980 for the four WEs having existing water systems, will not be
sufficient for the most part to fully meet current cash operating expenses.
The resulting deficits will be covered, as in the past, by equity funds from
the local governments, and GOI has undertaken to ensure that, in any event,
sufficient funds will be provided. The proposed increases in water rates
after 1980, and the water rates to be put into effect by the two WEs (Klaten
and Purwakarta) which do not presently have water supply systems, are designed
to produce gradually the revenues needed to cover increasing operating expenses,
to make modest contributions to the construction program and to generate by
1985 (1987 in the case of Purwakarta) sufficient funds to provide a 6% return
on net fixed assets in operation. They will also suffice to meet the debt
service requirements commencing in 1985. The projected increases are considered
to be within the ability of the consumers to pay, as discussed in para 6.06.
The proposals would increase the average rates in 1981 for Ambon by approxi-
mately 380%, Jember 115%, Pare-Pare 200%, and Tangerang 215%, with gradual
increases each year thereafter. Before rate increases can be implemented they
require the authorization of the municipal or regency assembly and are subject
to confirmation by the governor of the province.
5.21      The major part of existing and prospective demand is for residential
service, which is expected to average about 60% of total demand in 1985. The
average water rates per cu n shown for each year in the income statements in
Annexes 2-A to 7-A are composite rates for all classes of services. The table
below summarizes the estimated existing, and the projected, average water



- 35 -
rates for various years for all classes of service and for residential
service, and presents the average incremental costs of service in each city.
Average
Average Water Rates              incremental
Existing  1980  1981  1985  1987          cost /b
------------------- (Rp/cu m) /a --------------
Ambon        - All classes          12        12    58   251   278          664
Residential/c       10        10          196
Jember       - All classes          19        19    41   154   167          383
Residential/c       15        15           92
Klaten       - All classes          -         80    90   265   285          726
Residential/c       -         -           254
Pare-Pare   - All classes           22        22    66   201   224          430
Residential/c       20        20          125
Purwakarta  - All classes           -         80    90   242   378          667
Residential/c       -         -      -    193
Tangerang   - All classes           30        30    95   204   209          380
Residential/c       28        25          102
/a  The rupiah price per cu m may be converted for purposes of comparison
into approximate US cents per 1,000 gallons by taking 60% of the rupiah
price per cu m.
/b At 1985 price level and 15% discount rate.
/c Based for 1985 upon consumption of 120 lpcd and 6 persons per connection.
Not calculated for 1981 and 1987.
The above table includes projected water rai,es for Klaten and Purwakarta,
which presently have no water supply systems. The water rates through 1981
shown for those tw WEs apply to only a limited amount of standpipe and
institutional service.
5.22      The income statement-s in Annexes 2-A to 7-A show low rates of
return on net fixed assets despite the projected water rate increases,
huilding up to a 6% return in 1985 (1987 in the case of Purwakarta).  For
the reasons indicated in paras 5.19, 5.20 and 6.06, these returns are
considered acceptable. Understanding was reached with GOI that it will
take all measures required to ensure that the WEs will maintain or increase
average water rates at the beginning of each of the years 1980 and 1981 at
least to the extent set forth in the income statements and will further
increase water rates thereafter to provide revenues sufficient to produce



- 36 -
rates of return on the value of net fixed assets in service (less consumer
contributions) of at least 1% in 1982; 2% in 1983; 4% in 1984; and 6% in
1985 and thereafter. In the case of Purwakarta, where a substantial part of
the annual benefits of the new supply and distribution facilities will be
realized after 1984, the agreed establishment of, and increases in, average
water rates apply to each of the years through 1982, and the rate-of-return
covenant applies thereafter so that the water rate increases will produce
for Purwakarta returns of at least 1% in 1983 and 1984; 2% in 1985; 4% in
1986; and 6% in 1987 and thereafter. The rates of return covenants are based
on revalued fixed assets, and the financial forecasts project the fixed
assets and the returns on a revalued basis (Annex 8, para 16).
5.23      As agreed in connection with the First Water Supply Loan GOI, in
consultation with the WEs included in that project, assessed the conclusions
of the consultant's national standard water rate study and formulated guide-
lines for the structure of water rates. These guidelines deal with the
structure of water rates, e.g., differences in rates among various classes of
consumers and for varying quantities of use, rather than levels of water
rates to be charged. GOI has undertaken to ensure that the guidelines, which
follow the principle of graduated water rates based on quantity use and
ability to pay, will be followed in formulating the water rate structures in
the municipalities which will participate in the national water supply
program. Accordingly, the guidelines would be applied in setting the water
rates of the WEs at the levels specified in paras 5.21-5.22.
5.24      Billings vs. collections of the four existing water systems cannot
be estimated closely because records are not adequate to permit comparisons of
overall billings with collections for particular periods. Working meters are
read and water bills are rendered and collected monthly, either on a quantity
or flat-rate basis depending on whether the connections are metered
(para 5.18).
5.25      Consumers in the municipalities accept the principle of paying for
piped water supply. Payments of bills are made fairly promptly, collections
are pursued diligently, and the threat of cutting off service usually results
in payment. The exception to this collection experience are certain govern-
ment institutions which often pay bills only after delays of several years.
These billings vary from about 2% to 35% of the totals in the respective
cities with existing water systems and average about 13% of total billings,
but these percentages will decline as residential and other service is
increased in the program. In 1977, payments of the government institutions
were in arrears for an average duration of about six years in these cities.
The WEs must receive prompt payments from government institutions as well as
from others in order to meet their obligations, including payments of debt
service to GOI. Agreement was reached with GOI that on or before December 31,
1981, it will pay to the WEs all amounts owed on the date of the loan agree-
ment for water supplied to government institutions and will ensure that,
commencing with its fiscal year ending March 31, 1981, all other amounts for
service will be paid when due and in no event later than sixty days after the
date of billing.



- 37 -
5.26       The program contemplates that lower-income areas in the cities
will be served by public standpipes. While about 35% of the total population
to be served by 1985 in the six Part A cities will be served by standpipes,
the quantity of water to be consumed through standpipes is estimated at only
about 8% of total consumption because of much lower per capita use from
standpipes. The standpipes will be metered, and an understanding was reached
with GOI that all water supplied by any of the WEs would be paid for at the
lowest residential rate either by the customers using such standpipes through
the Rukun Tetangga (the neighborhood organization) or other similar organiza-
tion or by the municipaility or regency in whose territory the standpipe is
located.
5.27       In addition to the annual charges, consumers will be charged the
initial cost of new service connections. So that they will be able to afford
the connections, low-income customers will be permitted to pay for them
in installments over five years. The outlays by the WEs for the service
connections have been included in the estimated costs of the project.
Future Finances
5.28      On the basis of the financial projections, the WEs under Part A of
the project would generate sufficient cash to finance about 11% of the
construction program and to provide working capital and some additional cash
funds at the end of the project period. These funds will provide a cushion
if projections should fall short of expectations, or they could be devoted to
extensions of service beyond the first stage.
5.29      The projections show that in 1985 the debt of the individual WEs
would range from approximately 45% to 51%, and average about 48%, of combined
debt and equity. Debt service coverage by internal cash generation would
range from about 1.7 to 1.9 and average 1.8 in 1985 with the commencement of
full debt amortization, except in the case of one WE (Purwakarta) whose debt
service coverage of 1.0 in 1985 would increase to 2.0 as additional benefits
of the project are realized.
5.30      In viewing future finances, the basis for GOI's policy of financing
water supply projects primarily by loans rather than equity should be noted.
The central feature of this policy is that repayment of loans to GOI by
beneficiaries would facilitate the financing of other essential programs in
Indonesia, including the water supplies of other cities. The policy would
also preserve for the local governments an equity ownership in the water works
and the primary responsibility for their success. There would be gradual
improvement in the finances of the WEs with the measures to be taken under
the proposed project.
5.31      With regard to any indebtedness which might be proposed by a WE,
understanding was reached with GOI that no WE will incur long-term debts
without the consent of the Bank unless net income before interest and depre-
ciation is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service in any future year.



- 38 -
Monitoring Criteria
5.32       Each WE would be regularly monitored by DSE and the Ministry of
Home Affairs for financial performance and compliance with the GOI-WE
project financing agreements. The management consultants will provide
assistance in such monitoring. The Project File (Annex 10) shows indicators
which would be monitored to measure achievement of the technical and
financial goals, and these would be reported to the Bank on a periodic
basis during project execution. In cases of noncompliance, corrective
action would be taken by DSE, the Ministry of Home Affairs and, when
applicable, the Ministry of Finance or other appropriate GOI agencies.  GOI
would also prepare the project completion report within six months of the
Closing Date of the loan.
Part B - Surabaya
5.33      Under Part B of the project, the Bank will assist in the financing
of water transmission and distribution facilities in the northern and eastern
sections of the city of Surabaya to enable Surabaya WE to utilize water pro-
duction and treatment capacity which it has already provided from its own
resources. The loan will also finance the employment of consultants to study
options for further expanding system capacity to supply water to additional
areas of Surabaya and to improve the management and accounting systems of
the WE.
Status and Finances
5.34       Surabaya WE is an established and growing water enterprise pres-
ently serving about 400,000 (17%) of the population of Surabaya directly
through connections and approximately 600,000 (25%) through water resold by
householders and vendors who are connected to the system. The WE also serves
substantial numbers of comnercial, industrial and institutional customers.
There are presently a total of about 66,000 metered service connections, of
which 51,000 are residential, 6,000 commercial, 4,000 industrial, 2,000 govern-
ment and social institutions and 3,000 public standpipes.
5.35       Effective in January 1978, Surabaya WE made modifications in its
accounting system designed to place it more nearly on commercial-type accrual
accounting. It also changed its fiscal year from one which formerly ended on
March 31 to a calendar-year basis. These changes were occasioned by the
establishment in 1976 of the water supply organization as a municipally-owned
corporation, operating under the direction of a supervisory board, although
it had already operated for many years as a separate unit of the municipality.
The WE will continue to account separately for its operations and finances.
Management consultants, financed under the proposed loan (para 2.19) will
assist it in improving its accounting and management systems.
5.36       Income statements, flow of funds statements and balance sheets of
Surabaya WE, based on actual results for 1978 and estimates for 1979, are
in Annex 9. These statements include adjustments to reflect fixed assets
and depreciation on a revalued basis. The following table summarizes operat-
ing results and related infornation for 1978 and 1979 from details in the
financial statements.



- 39 -
SURABAYA WATER ENTERPRISE
1979
197Q      eqti -qotp(
Water produced ('000 cu m)                        57,334       60,200
Water sold ('000 cu m)                            46,547       48,800
% sales to production                               81           81
Number of connections ('000)                          66           69
Average water rate (Rp per cu m)                      58           68
--- Rp million --
Operating revenue                                  4,192        4,496
Operating expense before depreciation              2,658        2,850
Income before depreciation                       1,534        1,646
Depreciation                                       1,095        1,264
Net income                                         439          382
Capital expenditures                                 905        1,185
As revalued:
Fixed assets - end of year                      38,646       45,820
Accumulated depreciation                        17,770       22,336
Net fixed assets                                20,876       23,484
Average net fixed assets                        19,600       22,200
Rate of return (percent)                           2.2          1.7
5.37      As the above table shows, Surabaya WE is generating substantial
amounts of surplus cash, which it is devoting primarily to capital expendi-
tures to extend its water supply system. Cash generated from operations,
i.e., income before depreciation, was about Rp 1,500 million (US$2.4 million
equivalent) in 1978 and is estimated to be about the same in 1979. Capital
expenditures for fixed assets have amounted to about Rp 1,000 million
(US$1.6 million) annually. about one-half of which in 1978 was used to com-
plete the major addition to the WE's water treatment plant. Other cash out-
lays have been primarily the distribution of profits to the municipality,
which amounted to Rp 302 million in 1978 and Rp 375 million budgeted for
1979. Although cash generation has been substantial, the annual rate of
return (after allowance for depreciation) is about 2% for 1978 and 1979
(estimated) on net fixed assets which have been revalued upward substantially
for the effects of inflation and the 1978 devaluation of the rupiah.
5.38      The effectiveness of the WEs operation and maintenance practices
are indicated by its percentage of unaccounted-for water of less than 20%.
Metering, leak detection and pipe replacement measures are adequate, and
effectiveness should be enhanced by the new project facilities proposed.



- 40 -
Project Financing
5.39      The cost of the proposed additions to the transmission and distri-
bution facilities of Surabaya WE under Part B of the project are estimated at
Rp 9,204 million (US$14.7 million), including allowance of Rp 1,987 million
(US$3.2 million) for price contingencies. On the basis of the estimates,
these additions will constitute about 14% and 27%, respectively, of the total
revalued gross and net fixed assets of the WE.
5.40      In carrying out Part B of the project, GOI will lend to Surabaya
WE US$8.8 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan (representing 60% of the
subproject cost), together with such additional funds, if any, as will be
required by the WE, other than internally generated funds. Until the
completion of the project, the WE will devote its cash surpluses, after
paying its operating expenses and debt service and making adequate allowance
for working capital, to the payment of the cost of the project and of other
expenditures necessary to replace its property and improve its water supply
system. It is estimated that the WE's cash generation capacity during
project construction (1980-83) will be sufficient under the operation of
the water rate covenant of the loan and financing agreements (para 5.45) to
service its loan and pay for the 40% of project construction cost not
covered by the Bank loan. The GOI loan to the WE will be at an annual
interest rate of 9% and will be repayable in equal payments of principal
and interest over 28-1/2 years, including a grace period of approximately
4-1/2 years |1 for the payment of principal. GOI will bear the foreign
exchange risk on the funds made available to the WE.  The proposed terms of
relending, without the waiver of interest during the grace period, are
appropriate in the financial circumstances of the WE.
5.41      Should there be increases in project costs exceeding the estimates,
GOI will provide any funds needed to complete the project on time.  GOI will
also ensure that the WE has sufficient funds to meet any of its obligations
through 1983.
Water Rates and Billings
5.42      Surabaya WE, with the support of the municipality, has followed
sound pricing policies for its water service, raising rates periodically to
cover increased operating costs and to provide funds for extensions of its
system. Water rates were last increased, by an average of about 40%, effec-
tive June 1, 1978. An additional increase in rates averaging about 8% is
currently proposed by the WE, and the management anticipates that such
increase would be made effective from August 1979, subject to the approval of
the municipality.  The 1978 and 1979 increases raise the average water rates
per cu m to about Rp 68 and Rp 74, respectively, on a full-year basis.
They represent increases from the average rate level of about Rp 48 per cu m
which prevailed in 1977.
1 The grace period on the GOI loan will extend from the date of the project
financing agreement, assumed to be in June 1979, to December 31, 1983.



- 41 -
5.43      All service connections of the WE are metered.  The schedule of
water rates is on a graduated scale so that lower rates are charged to
residential consumers (also social and religious institutions) and for lower
monthly quantities consumed. The residential rate for the first 30 cu m of
monthly consumption is Rp 20, 25 and 30 per cu m, with the lower rates apply-
ing to poorer areas including Kampongs. Up to Rp 60 is charged for larger
monthly residential consumption. The current rate proposal would add a
high-use step for consumption over 50 cu m per month, for which up to Rp 100
per cu m, would be charged. Water vendors pay Rp 50-120 per cu m. The
rates for commercial, industrial and port customers range from Rp 80-300
per cu m depending upon the size of the enterprise. The average water rate
charged by the WE to residential customers is about Rp 27 per cu m and under
the current rate proposal would be about Rp 38 per cu m. Residential customers
purchase about one-half of the total volume of water sold. The extension
of the principal of graduated water rates based on quantity use and ability
to pay has been prescribed in GOI's guidelines for national standard water
rate structures, which will be followed by the WEs in setting future water
rates (para 5.23).
5.44      An objective of the project is to reduce the extent to which
the population of Surabaya must rely on the purchase of water from private
vendors who charge substantially higher prices to consumers who do not have
their own connections primarily because of the shortage of available water
production and distribution capacity. The project facilities will enable
the WE to serve directly an additional population of about 350,000 through
household connections and from public standpipes operated by neighborhood
organizations on a community basis. As in the case of the other WEs:
(a) the WE will allow low-income customers to pay for their water service
conections in installments over five years; and (b) the water supplied
through the public standpipes provided by the project will be metered and
paid for at the lowest residential rate either by the consumers through the
Rukun Tetangga or similar neighborhood organizaton or by the municipality.
5.45      Pending the study and assessment of the overall expansion of
water supply capacity and the related financing needs of Surabaya WE, for
which funds have been included in the loan for the services of consultants, it
will be necessary for the WE to continue to charge water rates which will
cover all operating costs and enable it to service the proposed loan.  The
loan agreement and project financing agreement will provide that the WE will
take all steps required, including increases in its water rates and charges,
to provide water revenues at least sufficient to cover its operating expenses
(including depreciation) and debt service in excess of depreciation. The
depreciation allowance will be calculated for this purpose on the basis of
revalued fixed assets in operation.
5.46      The billing and collection experience of Surabaya WE in recent
years has been satisfactory. Mfeters are read and bills are rendered and
collected monthly. Customers' accounts receivable, other than those of
government institutions and some untraceable accounts predating 1972, are
currently the equivalent of only about one month's billings. The government
accounts, which represent about 20% of total billings, have typically been
slower in paying. However, the WE has arranged with the major consumer, the
Department of Security and Defense, to pay annually the amount due for the



- 42 -
year plus 60% of the annual bill as an advance payment, thereby on the
average keeping payments up to date. This arrangement has not had the dif-
ficulties associated with the collection of monthly billings individually
from numerous defense establishments. GOI has agreed, as in the case of the
other WEs, to ensure that all overdue bills of its departments owing to the
WE will be paid and that bills in the future will be paid when due and in no
event later than 60 days after billing.
Other Loan Provisions
5.47      GOI has agreed that certain loan provisions which apply to the WEs
under Part A of the project would also apply to Surabaya WE. Where these
,provisions require actions on the part of the WE, they will be included in
the project financing agreement between GOI, the municipality and Surabaya
WE. The provisions include the requirements for annual audits, audited
financial statements and audit reports, commencing with the fiscal year
ending December 31, 1981  for the insurance of the goods to be financed from
the proceeds of the Bank loan and to cover other risks of the WE consistent
with appropriate practice; a limitation on incurrence of long-term debts
without the consent of the Bank unless debt service is covered at least 1.5
times; the periodic monitoring of the WE for financial performance and
project financing agreement compliance; and the preparation of a project
completion report upon the completion of the project.
VI. JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The justification for this project is that it provides uninterrupted
potable water service to 850,000 persons living in seven cities who now have,
at best, very poor and unsafe water supplies; it creates six new semi-
autonomous water enterprises and trains staff in management, accounting and
operation; it strengthens the project implementation capacity of DSE and
Cipta Karya; it strengthens training institutions for skilled and semi-skilled
workers and administrative personnel; and it fosters the concepts of cost
recovery and efficiency pricing in the public sector. These points are
discussed below.
Provision of Safe and Uninterrupted Water Supply
6.02      The proposed project would bring new or improved water supplies
to about 500,000 consumers or 80% of the population in the six Part A cities
by 1986. At present only 13% of the population in these cities receive public
water service and much of that is interrupted and unsafe. If the project is
not implemented, the percentage of population in the six cities served from
house connections and standpipes will steadily decline to 8% and 3% respec-
tively in 1986. In Surabaya the project will benefit about 350,000 persons.
It will serve 18,000 additional houses with private connections and provide
2,000 additional public standpipes each of which would provide service to
20-30 families. About 10,000 present connections would receive improved
service and the percentage of Surabaya's population served would increase from
the present 42% to 50% of the total population. Cholera, a sensitive indicator
of hygienic and sanitary conditions, is endemic throughout Indonesia. In 1974



-~ 43 -
the country had the highest number of cases and deaths of any country in the
world that reported such data. These projects will improve hygienic and
sanitary conditions. The public water systems would also enhance commercial
and industrial development.
Urban Poor
6.03      In Indonesia about 65% of the urban population of 24 million are
at or below the urban poverty threshold of US$194 (1976 prices) per capita
per annum established by the Bank's Urban Poverty Task Force. At least
500,000 people served by the Project would be urban poor. The design con-
sultants are instructed to ensure that the proportion of urban poor served to
the total population served is at least as great as the proportion of urban
poor to the total population.   This will be done by identifying areas where
the poor reside; by designing sufficient transmission and distribution piping
to and through these areas; and by providing house connections where finan-
cially feasibile, or where not feasible, public standpipes. Furthermore, for
each Part A city the project includes the construction of public bathhouses
which would be used almost exclusively by the poor. About 45% of project
expenditures would provide services benefitting the poor.
6.04      The projects are expected to create about 1,700 man-years of jobs
(such as trench excavation) for unskilled labor during construction which can
be filled by the urban poor.
Least Cost Solution
6.05      For each Part A subproject the proposed system represents the least
cost system of facilities designed to meet the projected demands of the
service area through 1990. Alternatives were examined at discount rates of
8%, 12% and 15%. Ground or spring water was the first choice of water
source (because of generally lower capital and operating cost); but after
hydrogeological studies, these sources proved inadequate in two of the six
cities Purwakarta and Tangerang. (In Ambon further ground and spring water
investigations are required which are to be financed under the proposed loan;
there are grounds for optimism that ground and spring water sources will
suffice. Further groundwater explorations would also be conducted in
Purwakarta). The predesign study to be conducted in consultation with the
Bank for the Surabaya subproject would ensure that the subproject is the
optimal means for distributing water to the intended service areas and con-
sumers.
Affordability
6.06      For each Part A city an analysis was made of household income and
expenditure data collected by the consultants to verify that consumers could
afford the proposed service at the projected tariff levels. The year 1985
was selected for the analysis, it being the first year that all project
assets are in service, debt service commences and rates of return covenants
have become operative. Residential income data of 1976 were escalated to
1985 prices at 14% annually for inflation plus 4% for real growth. The
analysis revealed that for each city, with the exception of Purwakarta, the



- 44 
projected percentage of house-connected consumers approximately matched the
percentage of population which would have monthly incomes of 20 to 25 times
the monthly water bill including the connection charge. This falls within
the criterion that the upper range of the amount paid for residential water
consumption should be about five percent of monthly income. (For Purwakarta,
the amount paid by the poorest household expected to take a house connection
would be about 5.7% of monthly income.) Standpipe consumers, although having
lower income, could readily afford standpipe service because of the smaller
quantities purchased. In Surabaya the present rates, which consumers have
demonstrated to be affordable, are expected to be increased to a degree
consistent with inflation of prices and consumers' income.
Pricing
6.07      Existing water rates in the Part A cities have been below incre-
mental costs and not even financial costs are recovered. Thus one of the
benefits of the Bank's involvement in the sector is the continued move, begun
under the First Project, toward efficiency pricing in the urban water supply
sector.
6.08      Under the proposed rate structure and level, the average rates
charged for water are less than the average incremental cost. However, the
rate structure provides that the unit cost to consumers of large volumes of
water is three to five times the unit cost for normal levels of consumption,
and thus approximately equal to the incremental cost. The structure thereby
discourages inefficient consumption. The revenues collected from large
volume consumers permit poorer small volume consumers to enjoy water services
at prices which are below costs without impairing the financial viability of
the WE.
6.09      Low income customers will be permitted to pay the cost of new
service connections in installments over five years. This is a promotional
device to increase the number of house connections thereby increasing the
benefits of the project (para 5.27).
Internal Rate of Return
6.10      In calculating the internal rates of return, benefits have been
taken as the incremental revenues earned as a consequence of the project;
costs include the capital costs relating to the project and the incremental
operating expenses necessary to bring the project facilities to full utiliza-
tion. The internal rates of return for the projects are: Ambon 4%; Jember
5%; Klaten 5%; Pare-Pare 6%; Purwakarta 6%; Surabaya 6%; and Tangerang 9%.
The aggregate rate of return is 6%.
6.11      The assumptions used to calculate the rates of return and the
average incremental costs for the projects are: the projects have a useful
life of 30 years with no residual value; incremental revenues and costs are
at constant 1979 prices and exclude duties and taxes; unskilled labor
is shadow priced with a coefficient of 0.5; consumer contributions for the
project (i.e., payments for the making of service connections) are included
as a benefit; the average water rates and the operating expense per cubic



- 45 -
cubic meter of production (in the last year of financial projections) are
used to estimate the incremental revenue and operating expense for the years
beyond 1987. The Project File (Annex 10) contains the capital costs, incre-
mental operating revenues and expenses, consumer contributions and the rates
of return for the projects.
6.12      A major factor contributing to the low rates of return for the six
Part A WEs is the low level of existing water rates, which will be increased
gradually under the financing plan. A test was made to determine the tariff
levels required for 10% rates of return; for Ambon (the extreme case) the
tariff level would have to be 66% higher than presently projected and this is
believed to be more thai- consumers can afford. The projected level of the
tariff in each Part A city is generally at the upper limit of what consumers
can afford. The calculated return is probably lower than the expected
economic benefits because the intangible benefits described in this chapter
are not fully reflected in the prices charged for water service; however,
partially off-setting these benefits are the cost and inconvenience of
additional waste water removal (para 4.50).
Institution Building
6.13       The establishment of semi-autonomous WEs at the local level to
operate water supply systems will benefit not only the water consumer but the
public sector generally. Sound public utility practices in operations,
administration and financing will be introduced and fostered and these are
expected to spread to other public enterprises.
6.14      At the national level the management development efforts of the
First Project will be continued and additionally a management specialist will
be employed to work within DSE to further improve DSE's project implementation
capability.
6.15       The interministerial decree (para 1.08) should help to bring about
a more harmonious working relationship among the key GOI ministries and
agencies. The policy statement based on the new strategy for urban water
supply development as reflected in Pelita III (para 1.17) would unify and
strengthen, both within and outside of government, efforts to develop the
sector. The technical assistance component of the proposed project would help
GOI implement the new strategy and help strengthen overall institution capa-
bilities.
Training
6.16       The project would support and expand training activities in the
sector primarily under the comprehensive program described in paras 2.19-2.24.
Training would also be accomplished at the WE level by the management consult-
ants as an adjunct to installing management systems, and at the national
level the DSE staff would benefit by their working relationships with the
management specialist.
Risks
6.17      General.  The cost of water supply projects and operations in
Indonesia relative to neighboring countries is generally above the norm. This



- 46 -
is due to physical remoteness, transport costs and delays and larger import
needs. On the other hand, Indonesian household incomes are generally lower
than in neighboring countries. Thus the Indonesian water consumers are
squeezed between high costs and low incomes. Additionally, experience on the
First Project indicates the possibility of delay in project completion.
Finally, the Part A WEs are newly formed and inexperienced in administration
and operations.
6.18      Thus, project risks are higher than in comparable projects in
neighboring countries: increases in capital costs, delays, consumers not
quickly taking house connections, poor performance on collections as water
bills increase, and higher than projected operating expenses all are possi-
bilities.   Nonetheless the bexefits of these projects are considered to be
sufficient to justify the risks. Indeed, the experience gained in carrying
out these projects is expected to reduce the risks on future projects.
6.19      In the Part A WEs new administrations and procedures must be
established and implemented, staff must be trained and the supervisory boards
of the WEs and the local administrations must be convinced of the need to
comply with GOI-WE project financing agreements.  In the First Project there
have been delays in meeting some covenants (para 1.20); in this project there
may be similar problems.  But the WE concept and the financing arrangements
are key institutional objectives of this loan and GOI is committed to success-
ful implementation, thereby minimizing the risk of noncompliance. Nonetheless,
during supervision these matters would be monitored closely.
6.20      Tangerang.  In Tangerang the population projections as revised by
the appraisal mission are based upon the present high rate of increase being
sustained plus the successful completion of the proposed Perumnas housing
scheme. Furthermore, demand projections include water needs, beginning in
1987, for the proposed new airport and assume that groundwater abstraction,
which is causing aquifier contamination, would only be expanded under con-
trolled conditions. The demand projections are reduced from the projections
of the consultant, who, using GOI JABOTABEK planning data (para 3.02) allowed
for significantly greater population increases and for larger industrial
demands. Under the appraisal projections demand reaches supply capacity by
1990; if the population growth or the airport and industrial demand do not
materialize, the date of full utilization would be shifted backward in time at
some loss of benefits. If the growth of demand increases in accordance with
JABOTABEK forecasts, capacity would be fully used in 1984, just as the project
nears completion. In this case the flexible nature of the works (the treatment
facilities are designed to be readily expandable) would allow an early response
so demand can be met in a timely manner.
6.21      The sensitivity analysis indicates that if the demand for 1985 is
20% less than projected, water rates would have to be higher by 20% but that
the Tangerang community could nevertheless afford the service. Since a lower
demand would not jeopardize financial viability, and a higher demand can be
quickly responded to with additional works, the risks are acceptable. Indeed
the middle path projections and project design optimize the capability of the
WE to meet uncertain conditions.



- 47 -
6.22      Nonetheless, in order to ensure the viability of the Tangerang WE,
agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a)  if an airport is built in the Tangerang area, it would use the WE's
facilities as its source of supply;
(b)  not less than 500 lps would be continually available to the WE from
the Cisadane River beginning in 1982, and this would be increased up
to 1,000 lps when required by the WE;
(c)  the proposed 10 ha treatment plant site now controlled by the
Ministry of Justice would be made available to the WE as required.
6.23      The project requires land for facilities and the rights to ground,
spring and surface water sources. During negotiations GOI gave assurance that
land would be made available to each WE as required for the project, and that
each WE would have the right to exploit the water source proposed under the
project, in the volume of the projected demand for the year 2000, through the
year 2025.
7. SUMNARY OF AGREEMENTS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached or understandings
with GOI confirmed on the following principal points:
(a)  GOI will by March 31, 1980 assign for a period up to 24 months a
management specialist to the Director of DSE in order to strengthen
its managerial and administrative capability (para 2.04).
(b)  DSE will implement by June 30, 1979, the staffing plan for FY80,
and thereafter DSE's staffing needs will be reviewed annually in
consultation with the Bank, and DSE will be staffed as recommended
by the review (para 2.05).
(c)  With respect to the organization of the WEs (i) all water supply
assets in each of the cities will be accounted for separately in the
name of the WE serving such city and will be under the exclusive
control of such WE; and (ii) each WE in the seven project cities
will enter into a project financing agreement with GOI and the local
government, acceptable to the Bank, for the related project (para
2.16).
(d)  For each WE, a Chief Engineer, a Finance and Administration Director
and an accounting officer will be appointed not later than June 30,
1980 (para 2.17).



- 48 -
(e) GOI will ensure that through DSE it will initiate and maintain,
in addition to the training of WE and DSE staff by the management
consultants and management specialist, a formal training program
for the water supply sector as shall be agreed upon by GOT and the
Bank (para 2.21). To this end it would employ training consultants
and submit to the Bank for comment a training plan by M4arch 31, 1980
(para 2.23).
(f) For the feasibility studies and designs for future rural and urban
water supply projects, GOI will submit draft terms of reference and
short lists of consultants for the Bank's review, and the consul-
tants will be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Contracts for this work will be signed not later than
March 31, 1980 (para 4.42).
(g) The terms of the GOI loans to the WEs and the related aspects of
the financing plan will be in accordance with the understanding
reached with GOI and reflected in the project financing agreements
(paras 5.10 and 5.40).
(h) The WEs under Part A will apply annually during the grace period
internally generated cash to effect the reduction of the equity
investments made available to the WEs by GOI in the form of equity
of the local government to meet project costs (para 5.10).
(i) The WEs under Part A will maintain or increase average water rates
at the beginning of each of the years 1980 and 1981 at least to the
extent set forth in the income statements and will further increase
water rates thereafter to provide revenues sufficient to produce
rates of return on the value of net fixed assets in service (less
consumer contributions) of at least 1% in 1982, 2% in 1983, 4% in
1984, and 6% in 1985 and thereafter; in the case of Purwakarta the
establishment of, and increases in, average water rates will apply
to each of the years through 1982 as set forth in the income
statements, and the rate of return covenant will apply thereafter
so that the water rate increases will produce for Purwakarta
returns of 1% in 1983 and 1984, 2% in 1985, 4% in 1986 and 6% in
1987 and thereafter (para 5.22).
(j) GOI will ensure the implementation of its guidelines for national
standard water rate structures in the setting of water rates of
the WEs (paras 5.23 and 5.43).
(k) Surabaya WE, until completion of its project, will devote its
cash surpluses, after paying its operating expenses and debt
service and providing adequate working capital, to the payment of
the cost of the project and of other expenditures necessary to
replace its property and improve its system (para 5.40). It will
take all steps, including increases in water rates, required to
provide revenues at least sufficient to cover its operating expenses
(including depreciation on revalued fixed assets in operation) and
debt service in excess of depreciation (para 5.45).



- 49 -
7.02      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) execution of the GOI-WE project financing agreements (para 2.16);
(b) the appointment of a Managing Director for each WE (para 2.17);
(c) execution of a contract for the consultant services for management
assistance to DSE (para 2.19); and (d) for all subprojects execution of the
engineering contract for tender evaluation and construction supervision
and, additionally for Surabaya, the engineering contract for predesign
study and design (para 4.41).
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$36 million for a
term of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years.
May 14, 1979



INIXONESIA
SEOsND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AMBON WATER ENTERPRISE
MILLIONS OF RUPIAH                                                           Date  Apri 27, 1979
LOCAL COSTS                                            FOREIGN COSTS
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983  1984  SUBTOTAL          1979   1980   1981   1982   1983  1984  SUBTOTAL    TOTAL
ITEM                                                    _
A. CIVIL WORKS
SOURCE DEVELOPMENT                                        28.5   28.4                             56.9                8.4    8.2                            16.6      73.5
PUMP STATIONS AND POWER GENERATORS                         5.9   23.6   17.7                      47.2               3.0   12.0    8.9                      23.9      71.1
WATER TREATMENT PLANT                                             19.3   38.6   38.6              96.5                      18.5   36.9   36.9              92.3    188.8
SERVICE RESERVOIRS                                        17.1   50.9   50.9   50.9              169.8               11.8   35.8   35.8   35.8             119.2    289.0
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                       54.7   82,2  164.1             301.0                       8.7   13.1   26.2              48.0    349.0
HYDRANTS/PUBLIC STANDF'IPES                                        0.9    0,9    0.7               2.5                       0.2    0.2                      0,4       2.9
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                              45.4   45,4   45,5              136.3                       5.9    5.9    5.9              17.7    154.0
BUILDINGS, MISCELLANEOUS                                  34.9   34.8   34.9   34,8              139.4              10.3   10.2   10.2   10.2               40.9    180.3
TOTAL A                                                86.4  258.0  270.6  334.6             949.6               33,5   99.5  111.0  115.0              359.0  1,308.6
B. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
PUMPING AND POWER GENERATION EQUIPMENT                     4.1            9.3                     13.4              19.7           85.0                    104.7    118.1
TREATMENT EQUIPMENT                                        0.1           11.9                     12.0               1.0          105.0                    106.0    118.0
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                       44.0   18.9                     62.9                     393.4  168.6                    562.0    624.9
HYDRANTS, PUBLIC STANDPIPES                                        0.6    0.2                      0.8                       5.4    2.3                      7.7       8.5
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                                      11.8                     11.8                            106.3                    106.3    118.1
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT                                          10.0    6.5    4.3               20.8                      17.5    3.8    7.5              28.8      49.6
TOTAL B                                                 4.2   54.6   58.6    4.3             121.7               20.7  416.3  471.0    7.5              915.5  1,037.2
C. ENGINEERING
DESIGN                                             19.5    9.1                                    28.6      157.3  138.9                                   296.2    324.8
CONSTRUCTION                                        6.3   25.2   25.0   16.1   13.5   3.5         89.6        6.9   27.8   27.8   17.9   14.9   3.9         99.2    188.8
TOTAL C                                        25.8   34.3   25.0   16.1   13.5   3,5        118.2       164.2  166.7   27.8   17,9   14.9   3,9        395.4    513.6
TOTAL A + B + C                           25.8  124.9  337.6  345.3  352.4   3.5   1,189.5         164.2  220,9  543.6  599.9  137.4   3.9   1,669.9  2,859.4
D. CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (18%)                                      4.6   22.5   60.8   62.2   63.4   0.6        214.1       29.6   39.8   97.8  108.0   24.7   0.7        300.6    514.7
F'RICE                                              2.3   50.1  231.1  334.2  432.4   5.1   1,055,2           3.9   23.5  102.6  177.0   53.5   2.0        362.5  1,417.7
TOTAL D                                         6.9   72.6  291,9  396.4  495.8   5.7   1,269.3          33.5   63.3  200.4  285.0   78.2   2.7         663.1  1.932.4
E.  LAND                                             12.0                                           12.0                                                                12.0
GRAND TOTAL                               44.7  197.5  629.5  741.7  848.2   9.2   2,470.8         197.7  284.2  744.0  884.9  215.6   6.6   2,333.0  4.803,8



1NDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
JEMBER WATER ENTERPRISE
CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE
MILLIONS OF RUPIAH AN'Art2,27
LOCAL COSTS                                                         FOREIGN CO0STS
1979    1980    1981    1 9 8     1983   1984  SUPF1 0 AL.!'                  19110    t98 1  198:'  1 983   1984  SUBET07TAL      TOTAL
ITEM 
A.  CIVIL WORKS
SPRING DEVELOPMENT                                         49.4                                         49.4                     14*4                                       14.4       63.8
WEI L CONSTRUJCTION                                251    50.9                                          7e.012.51;   25,. 4                                                 37.9      113,9
WELL. FUMPIN6 SIA-fI0NS                                             15.6      1.4                       17.0    0,                                  7                        8.6       25.6
SERVICEF RESERVOIRS                                        57.6    57.4                                1  .040.3    40.2                                                    80.8      195,5
PIPELIENES ANDI APPURTENANCEES                                      77.5    77.5    77.    19.1         56                                10.2  101.2  10.2    2.9          321.9     284.5
HYDRANTS/PUBLIC S7ANDPIPES                                            I 1.1       1    .111    0.?~       3                                0.2    0.2    0.2                 0.6         4.1
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                                 35,4  21,I5       3. 2    2i.i        2                                4.4    2,8    0,5    0,3          8.0       70,2
BUILD'INGS, MISCELLANEOUS                                  39. 9    53.1    53, 1                      146.1                     11.6      5 .-.6   1 ,. 6                 42.8      188.9
T'OTAL A                                       25,.1  197.13  240. 1   154.6    81.8  21 .4         /20.8I2,                  01 ./   78.85  29.5   t0,9    2.6        225.7      946.5
P.  EQUIPMENT AN!' SUPPLIES
WELL SCREENS                                        1.6      1.6                                          3.2            15.3    1 5. 1                                     30.4       33,6
PUJMPTNG AND 'TREATMENT FEOUIF'MENT                         0.6    11.7                                I11.3                      5 .6e  1o5,0                             110.6      122.9
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                49.3    4 9 .                                9."8.8                  3975.1  394.9                              790.0      8838.5
HYEIRANTS, PUBL-IC STANDPIPEN                               0,9      0.7                                  1.6                     7, 5     7.4                              14.9       16,5
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                         4.9      4.9                                  9,8                    42.8    42.8                               85.6       95,4
MISCELLANEOUS COUIPMENT                                              8.1      7 .                       16.0                              15.2  13.8                        2 9 .0     45.0
TOTAL Et                                         1,6    57.3    74,6      7.9                       141.4            15.3  466.1  565.3   13.8                       1,060.5   1,201,9
C. ENGINEERING
DiESIGN                                            16.3     6.9                                         23 .2           817.9  [153.0                                      240.9      264.1
CONSTRLUCTION                                       8.3    21.2    21.2    13,5    1 1.3    3.01         75.5             5.7    23.0    23,0   14.8   12.3    3.4          832. 2    157.7
TOIUTAL C                                      21.6    28.1    21.       13.5    11 .3    3.0        98,7            93.6   176.0    23.0   14.8   12.3    3.4         323.1      421.8
TOTAL A + Bl + C                         413.3 283. 2   335.9   176.0    93.1  24.4           960.9           121.4  733.8  666.8  513. 1  23,2    6,0    1,609.3  2,570.2
It.  CONI INGENCIES
PHYSICAL (113%)                                      1. 7   51.0   6(1.85   31 .7    16. 8    4.4       173.1           21.9   1 32.1I  120. 0   10o.5~   4.2    1,1       289.8      462.9
F:.RICE                                             4,3   1 13. 6    :9, 9   170,3   11t4,3  36. 0     668.4             2,      77.9  125. 9  9 7.2    9,0    3.1         236.0      904.4
TOTAL Di                                       13. 0   164.6  290.4  202.1   1 31.1  40,4           841,5           2.4,8   21 0,0  248.9  27.7   13.2    4.2          525,8   1,367.3
F.  LANDi                                            31.9                          19                                                                                                     31.9
(iRANII TIIEAt                           93.2  4471. 1  626.-3  3/8.01   24. 2  64 . 8    1,134 .3            146,   '743,I  Y91 2,    0;. 8  36. 4  1(1,2    2,1135,1  3,969.4
- - - - - - - - - - - -                               P, z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KLATEN WATER ENTERPRISE
CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE
MILLIONS OF RUPIAH
DATE:  ApriL 27, 1979  u
LOCAL COSTS                                                 FOREIGN COSTS
1979     1980      1981   1982   1983   1984  SUBTOTAL             1979   1980   1981  1982  1983  1984  SUBTOTAL           TOTAL
I TEIM                                                                   -
A. CIVIL WORKS
SFRING DEVELOPMENT                                       30.6       19.4           24.6               74.6                  9.0    5.7            7.1              21.8      96.4
fUMFING FLANT                                                                       1.2    1.2         2.4                                       0.7   0.5          1.2       3.6
FIFEtlINES ANt' APFIJRTENANCES                                     S4.7   58.8   74.2   28.2         255.9                         12.3   7.7   9.7   3.6         33.3    289.2
HYDRANTS/PtJSLIC STANDFPIPES                                        0.2    0.4    0.2    0.1           0.9                                 0.2                      0.2       1.1
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                                16.9   13.8   10.7    9.7          51.1                          2.1   1.8   1.3   1.3           6.5     57.6
BUILDiINGS, MISCELLANEOUS                                          45,6   45.5                        91.1                         13.4  13.3                     26,7    117.8
TOTAL A                                               30.6    176.8  118.5  110.9   39,2          476.0                  9.0   33.5  23.0  18.8   5.4          89.7    565.7
B.  EQIJIFMENT AND SUPPLIES
FUMPING AND TREATMENT EQUIFMENT                           0.2        2.0                               2.2                  3.9   15.7                            19.6      21.8
ELEVATED STEEL TANK                                      13.5       6.6                               20.1                119.7   58.9                           178.6    198.7
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                              41.3      41.2                               82.5               342.6  342.4                            685.0    767.5
HYDRANTS, FUBLIC STANDFIPFES                              0.4       0.2                                0.6                  3.1    3.1                             6.2       6.8
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                       4.8       4.7                                9.5                 41.7   41.5                            83.2      92.7
MISCEL_LANEOUS EQUIFMENT                                   6.2      6.3                               12.5                 10.8   12.1                            22.9      35.4
TOTAL B                                               66.4      61.0                              127.4               521.8  473.7                            995.5  1,122.9
C. ENGINEERING
DESIGN                                          12.6      5.3                                         17.9         65.2  119.9                                   185.1     203.0
CONSTRUCTION                                     4.1     16.4      16.4   10.6    8.7    2.3          58.5          4.4   17.9   17.9  11.5   9.5   2.6           63.8    122.3
TOTAL C                                     16.7      21.7      16.4   10.6    8.7    2.3          76.4        69.6  137.8   17.9  11.5   9.5   2.6          248.9    325.3
TOTAL A+ B + C                         16.7    118.7    254.2  129.1  119,6   41.5          679.8         69.6  668.6  525.1  34.5  28.3   8.0   1,334.1  2,013.9
D. CONIINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (18%)                                   3.0     21.4      45.8   23.2   21.5    7.5         122.4         12.,  120.3   94.5   6.2   5.1   1.4          240.0    362.4
FRICE                                            1.5     47.6    174.0  124.9  146.7   61.3          556.0          1.6   71.0   99.1  10.2  11.0   4.0          196.9    752.9
TOTAL D                                      4.5      69.0    219.8  148.1  168.2   68.8          678.4        14.1  1Y1.3  193.6  16.4  16.1   5.4          436.9  1,115.3
E.  LAND                                          21.6                                                  21.6                                                                  21.6
GRAND TOTAL                            42.8    187.7    474.0  277.2  287.8  110.3   1,379.8              83.7  859.9  718.7  50.9  44.4  13.4   1,771.0  3,150.8



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PARE-PARE WATER ENTERPRISE
CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE
MILLIONS OF RUPIAH
DATE! April 27, 1979
LOCAL COSTS                                                FOREIGN COSTS
1979   1980      1981   1982   1983  1984  SUBIOTAL           i979   1980   1981  1982  1983  1984  SUBTOTAL    TOTAL
ITEM                                                -       _         _      _       _      _          _           -       -       -     -      -      -          -         -
A. CIVIL WORKS
WELL CONSTRUCTION                                    111.4                                       111.4               55.9                                   55.9    167.3
WELL PUMPING STATIONS                                           43.5                              43.5                       21.6                           21.6      65.1
SERVICE RESERVOIRS                                    42.9      42.8                             85.7                30.0   30.0                            60.0    145.7
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                     43.7   43.7   43.7   9.8         140.9                        5.7   5.7   5.7   1.1          18.2    159.1
HYDRANTS/PUBLIC STANDPIFES                                       0.6    0.6    0.6   0.2           2.0                        0.2                             0.2       2.2
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                             33.1    2.0    2.0   2.0          39.1                        4.1   0.3   0.3   0.3           5.0      44.1
BUILDINGS, MISCELLANEOUS                              21.5      29.0   29.0                       79.5                 6.4    8.5   8.5                      23.4    102.9
TOTAL A                                           175.8    192.7   75.3   46.3  12.0         502.1                92.3   70.1  14.5   6.0   1.4         184.3    686.4
B.  EQUIFMENT AND SUPPLIES
WELL SCREENS                                            6.0                                        6.0                58.4                                   58.4      64.4
PUMPING AND TREATMENT EQUIPMENT                                 20.8                              20.8                      186.1                           186.1    206.9
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                           21.3      21.3                              42.6               190.6  190.6                          381.2    423.8
HYDRANTS, PUBLIC STANDPIPES                             0.5      0.5                               1.0                 4.6    4.6                             9.2      10.2
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                     3.0      2.8                               5.8                25.4   25.4                            50.8      56.6
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT                                          6.7    6.5                       13.2                       12.8  11.5                      24.3      37.5
TOTAL B                                            30.8      52.1    6,5                      89.4               279.0  419.5  11.5                     710.0    799.4
C. ENGINEERING
DESIGN                                         11.2    4.8                                        16.0        58.6  108.1                                   166.7    182.7
CONSTRUCTION                                    3.7   14.6       14.6    9.3    7.9   2.0         52.1         3.9   15.9   15.9  10.2   8.5   2.3           56.7    108.8
TOTAL C                                     14.9   19.4      14.6    9.3    7.9   2.0         68.1         62.5  124.0   15.9  10.2   8.5   2.3         223.4    291.5
TOTAL A + B + C                       14.9  226.0    259.4   91.1   54.2  14.0          659.6        62.5  495.3  505.5  36.2  14.5   3.7   1,117.7  1,777.3
D. CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (18X)                                  2.7   40.7      46.7   16.4    9.8   2.5         118.8        11.3   89.2   91.0   6.5   2.6   0.7          201.3    320.1
PRICE                                           1.3   90.7    177.5   88.2   66.6  20.6         444.9          1.5   52.6   95.4  10.7   5.6   1.9          167.7    612.6
TOTAL D                                     4.0  131.4    224.2  104.6   76.4  23.1          563.7         12.8  141.8  186.4  17.2   8.2   2.6         369.0    932.7
E..  LAND                                        31.1                                               31.1                                                                 31.1
GRAND TOTAL                           50.0  357.4    483.6  195.7  130.6  37.1   1,254.4             75.3  637.1  691.9  53.4  22.7   6.3   1,486.7  2,741.1
= =    = = =   = = =   =     =    = _ = = = ==   =     =    =   =    =      =   =  =   = = = =    = = =    = = = = = = O= Z
Xt ct
X >



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PURWARARTA WATER ENTERPRISE
CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE
MILLIONS OP RUPIAH
Date ApriL 27, 1979
LOCAL COSTS                                                         FOREIGN COSTS
1979   1980       1981      1982   1983  1984  SUBTOTAL              1979   1980       1981      1982  1983  1984  SUBTOTAL    TOTAL
ITEM                                                    _       _          _         _       _      _          _              _
A. CIVIL WORKS
INTAKE AND PUMPING STRUCTURE                                          2.5      11.6    3.2               17.3                              8.0        3.9                     11.9      29.2
TREATMENT PLANT                                                     110.7     121.4   10.8              2 9                               116.3    116.1                     232.4    475.3
SERVICE RESERVOIRS                                                   25.8      25.8                          6                             18.2      18.2                     36.4      98.0
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                         115.9    115.9  115.7               347.5                              15.1      15.1  14.9               45.1     392.6
HYDRANTS/PUBLIC STANDPIPES                                            0.6       0.6    0.5                 1.7                              0.2                                0.2        1.9
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                                   3.3      22.0   46.7  16.9         88.9                               0.5       3.0   6.1   2,1         11.7    100.6
BUILDINGS, MISCELLANEOUS                                   42.3      67.5      25.1                     134.9                   12.5       19.7       7.4                     39.6    174.5
TOTAL A                                                42.3    326.3    322.4  176.9  16.9           884.8                   12.5     178.0     163.7  21.0   2.1         377.3  1,262.1
B. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
TREATMENT PLANT EQUIPMENT                                            12.5      12.7                      25.2                             113.0    113.2                     226.2    251.4
PUMPING EQUIPMENT                                                     3.3       3.4                        6.7                             30.0      30.2                      60.2      66.9
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                          57.1      57.1                     114,2                             509.1    509.1                   1,018.2  1,132.4
HYDRANTS, PUBLIC STANDPIPES                                           0.4       0.5                        0,9                              3.4       3.4                       6.8       7.7
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                                   6.9       6.9                       13.8                             22.0      22.1                      44.1      57.9
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT                                               6.3       6.2                       12.5                             12.1      10:8                      22.9      35.4
TOTAL B                                                          86.5       86.8                     173.3                            689.6    688.8                    1,378.4  1,551.7
C. ENGINEERING
DESIGN                                             22.5    9.6                                            32.1          108.4   63.4      161.6                               333.4    365.5
CONSTRUCTION                                        6.9   17.6       27.4      27.4   14.6   3.9         97.8             7.5   19.2       30.0      30.0  16.1   4.1         106.9    204.7
TOTAL C                                        29.4   27.2        27.4      27.4   14.6   3.9        129.9          115.9   82.6    191.6         30.0  16.1   4.1        440.3    570.2
TOTAL A + 8 + C                           29.4   69.5    440.2    436.6  191.5  20.8   1,188.0                 115.9   95.1  1-059.2    882.5  37.1   6.2   2,196.0  3,384.0
D. CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (18%)                                      5.3   12.5       79.2      78.6   34.5   3.7        213.8            20.9   17.1      190.7    158.9   6.7   1.1          395.4    609.2
PRICE                                               2.6   27.9    301.3    422.5  235.0  30.6   1,019.9                   2.7   10.1    200.0    260.4  14.5   3.1            490.8  1,510.7
TOTAL D                                          7.9   40.4    380.5    501.1  269.5  34.3   1,233.7                  23.6   27.2    390.7    419.3  21.2   4.2           986.2  2,119.9
E.  LAND                                             41.5                                                   41.5                                                                            41.5
GRAND TOTAL                               78.8  109.9    820.7    937.7  461.0  55.1   2,463.2                 139.5  122.3  1,449.9  1,301.8  58.3  10.4   3,082.2  5,545.4



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TANGERANG WATER ENTERPRISE
CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE
MILLIONS OF RUPIAH                                                                Date:  ApriL 27, 1979
LOCAL COSTS                                                         FOREIGN COSTS
1979     1980      1981   1982   1983  1984  SUBTOTAL               1979      1980      1981   1982  1983  1984  SUBTOTAL    TOTAL
ITEM
A. CIVIL WORKS
INTAKE STRIJCTURE                                           8.0       7.9                             15.9                       5.6      5.6                             11,2      27.1
TREATMENT FLANT                                           253.3    253.1                             506.4                    242.4    242.2                             484,6    991.0
PUMP STATIONS                                                        14.3                             14.3                                 7.1                             7.1      21.4
RESERVOIRS                                                125.0    124.8                             249.8                     87.6      87.6                            175.2    425.0
FIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                         103.6  103.6   51.9              259.1                                13.4   13.4   6.7               33.5    292.6
HYDRANTS/PUBLIC STANDPIPES                                            0.6    0.6    0.4                 1.6                                0.2                             0.2       1.8
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                                  28.8   40.0   11.1               79.9                                 3.8    5.1   1.5               10,4      90.3
BUILDINGS. MISCELLANEOUS                                   33.2      44.0   30.0                     107.2                       9.8      13.0    8.7                     31.5    13B.7
TOTAL A                                                419.5    577.1  174.2   63.4             1,234.2                    345.4    372.9   27.2   8.2                753,7  1,987.9
B.  EQUIFMENT AND SUPPLIES
TREATMENT PLANT EGtJIPMENT                                 27.3      27.2                             54.5                     259.9    259.9                            519.8    574.3
PUMPING ANDI INTAKE EGUIPMENT                              12.5      12.4                             24.9                     112.0    111.8                            223.8    248.7
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                52.0      51.9                            103.9                     463.5    463.3                            926.8  1,030.7
HYDRANTS, FUBLIC STANDPIPES                                 0.6       0.6                               1.2                      5.4       5.4                            10.8       12.0
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                         6.6       5.0                             11.6                      59.5      44.8                           104.3    115.9
MISCELLANEOUS EGUIPMENT                                     8.1       7                               16.0                      14.6      14.5   10.8                      39.9      55.9
TOTAL B                                                107.1     105.0                            212.1                    914.9    899.7   10.8                    1.825.4  2,037.5
C. ENGINEERING
DESIGN                                           28.7      12.4                                       41.1           156.3    269.5                                      425.8    466.9
CONSTRUJCTION                                              45.9      51.5   27.8   13.9              139.1                      50.0      56.1   30.3  15.3              151.7    290.8
TOTAL C                                       28.7      58.3      51.5   27.8   13.9              180.2           156.3    319.5      56.1   30.3  15.3               577.5    757.7
TOTAL A + B t C                         28.7    584.9    733.6  202.0   77.3              1,626.5           156.3  1,579.8  1,328.7   68.3  23.5              3,156.6  4,783.1
D. CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (18%)                                    5.2    105.3    132.0   36,4   13.9                292.8            28.1    284.4    239.2   12.3   4.2                568,2    861.0
PRICE                                             2.5    234.7    502.0  195.5   94.8              1,029.5             3.7    167.8    250.9   20.2   9.1                451.7  1,481.2
TOIAL D                                        7.7    340.0    634.0  231.9  108.7              1,322.3            31.8    452.2    490.1   32.5  13.3              1,019.9  2,342.2
E., LAND                                           32.1                                                  32.1                                                                          32_ _
GRAND TOTAL                             68.5    924.9  1,367.6  433.9  186.0              2,980.9           188.1  2,032.0  1,818.8  100.8  36.8              4,176.5  7,157.4



INLIONE:S I A
SECONID WAIER SlIFlY PROJEtCI
SURABAYA WATER EtNTERF RISL
CONSIRUCTION COS1 ESITIMATE
FRICE LEVELS, MILLIONS OF                                                                   DATE: 03/30/79
LOCAL COSTS                                                 FOREIGN COSTS
1980       1981       1982    1983   SUJP10(L.              1980        1981    1982   1983   SUBTOTAL         TOTAL
ITEM
A. CIVIL WORKS
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                                          326,0      448.0    40.0                                                1.0 450 4.0        81.0      895.0
HYDRANTS/PUBLIC STANDFIFES                                             6.0        9,0      2.0         17.0                                  L O                 1.0       18.0
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                                   61.0       83.0      7.0        151.0                         5.0      7.0    1.0         13.0      164.0
TOTAL A                                                          393.0      540.0    49.0         982.0                       37.0    53.0    5.0           95.0   1v077.0
TOTAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____ A.___ -------   ----   ---  ---    -----  -------_____ ____
B. EOUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
EQUIPMENT AND SUPPL196.01I0,0326,0                                                                 1,710.0   1,140.0                       2,850.0  3,176.0
PIPELINES AND APPURTENANCES                              196.0 130.0                                 326s              67.0       44.0                        111.0       122.0
HYDRANTSY PUBLIC STANDPIF'ES                                7.0        4.0                             11,0            67.0       44,0
SERVICE CONNECTIONS                                       61.0        40.0                            101t           597,0      398.0                        995.0   1,096.0
TOTAL B                                               264.0      174,0                            4380O        2,374,0   1P582.0                        3,956.0  4,394.0
.._____.__....._.. ._........ --- -__                                      - - -     - - -    ___ _ _ --- -- -     ______-_____
C    ENGINEERING
DESIGN                                                   132,0        32,0                            164.')           48.0       12.0                         60.0      224.0
CONSTRUCTION                                                         110,0      151.0    13,0        274.0                        24.0    33.0    3.0          60.0      334,0
TOTAL C                                               132.0      142,0      151.0    13.0         438.0            48.0       36.0    33.0    3.0         120.0      558.0
_ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _    _ - - - - - - -_ _                 -- ---      --  _- -    - - - - -  - - - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - -
TOTAL A + B + C                                396.0       709.0      691.0    62.0    1P858.0           2P422.0   1P655.0    86.0    8.0    4,171.0  6,029.0
_____-- --____  - -  -- - -                                            - - -- - -  -  --   - - - _   - -- - -    - -_-_________-____
r,. CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (18%)                                             71.3      127.6      124,4    11.2         334.5          436.0       297.9    15.5    1.4         750.8   1,085.3
PRICE                                                    158.9       485.2      668.6    76.1    1,388.B             257.2       312.5    25.4    3.1         598.2  1P987.0
TOTAL D                                               230.2      612.8      793,0    87.3    1,723.3             693.2       610.4    40.9    4.5    1-349.0   3.072.3
.  _  _  _  _.   ............   ..  - _  _  _   _  _  -  -  -  _  -   --------  - - --        - - - - - --_       _ _ _ _       _ _ _ _   
E.  LAiN'                                                   103.0                                       103.0                                                              103,0        I-.
GRAND TOTAL                                    729.2   1,321.8   1,484.0   149.3    3,684 3             3P115,2  2,265.4   126.9   12.5    5P520.0  9,204.3



57                              ANNEX 1
Page 8
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
COST ESTIMATE
Millions of Rupiah; Includes Contingencies
LOCAL COSTS    FOREIGN COSTS    TOTAL COST
PART C - Management and
Technical Assistance
Management Consultants for
Seven cities                      250               780           1,030
Resident Management Specialist
for Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering                        15                56              71
Monitoring Specialist                45                 -              45
Water and Sanitation Specialist      19                80              99
Total C                          329               916           1,245
PART D - Reconnaissance and
Feasibility Studies
Surabaya System Expansion Study    125                250             375
Project Preparation for East
Java and unidentified rural
and urban areas                    75                94             169
Policy formulation                   50                 0              50
Total D                          250               344             594
PART E - Training
Training Consultants                378               613             991
Fellowships                         313               125             438
Total E                          691               738           1,429
TOTAL C + D + E                1,270             1,998           3,268



INDONESIA
SECOND WATEP SUPPLY PROJECT
Income Statement
AMBON WATER ENTPR                                                                                        MILL RUP
1978      1379       138C       1931       1982        1983      1984        1985       1986       1987
POPULATION-THOUSAND              88.50      89._0      913.40       o1.50   92.50      93,30      94.20      95.10      96.00       97.10
POPULATION SERVED- WATER         20.34      22.34      24.13      26.15      27.75      50.93      66.55      70.11      72.19       73.18
POPULATION BY STAND-POSTS         5.70       7.00       8.52      13.10      11.22      13.58      17.10      18.45       19.10      19.40
POPULATION by connections        14.64      15.34      15.61      16.05      15.53      37.35      49.45      51.66      53.09       53.78
X, POPULAi ON served water       22.98      25.01      26.69      20.S3      29.93      54.59      70.65      73.72      75.20       75.37
% POPULATION by connections   16.54         17.17      17.26      17.54      17.65      40.03      52.49      54.32      55.3C       55.39
CONNECTIONS- W'JATER              2.50       2.61       2.72       2.73       2.65       5.39       8.03       8.14        8.25       8.35
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3            1.00       1.20       1.32      1.41       1.48       2.32       3.17       3.26        3.37       3.47
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH         33.32      38.20      40.41      42.93      43.20      35.81      32.89      33.42      34.03       34.62
Y UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER         40.00      30.00      25.00      23.00      23.00      23.00      23.00      23.00      23.00       23.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3                1.67      1.71       1.76       1.83       1.92       3.01       4.12       4.24       4.38        4.51
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD       224.53    209.74    199.36    191.75    169.59    161.92    169.49    165.69    166.10    168.71
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3    12.00         12.00     12.00      57.88    106.44    135.04    191.01    251.35    263.42    278.37
WATER   REVENUES                12. 00     14.36      15.84      81.56    157.36    312.96    605.51        820.61    887.73    965.94
TOTAL REVENUES                    12.00     14.36      15.34      81.56    157.36    312.98    605.51        820.61    887.73    965.94
l%ACES- WATER                     10.00      12.20     15.30      34.00      50.50      80.70      99.70    113.00    125.10    140.30
CHEMICALS                          0.00      0.00       0.00       5.50       6.70      11.30      21.00      23.50      26.30       29.60
POWER                              1.50      1.80       2.30       2.70       7.00      13.20      23.20      25.90      29.00       32.50    0'
r.;iATERIALS                       2.17      2-70       3.40       4.80       9.30      17.50      29.20      38.10      41.50       45.30
OTHER EXPENSES                     1.20       1.--'0     1.80      4.10       c.Cv       9.70      12.00       13.50      15.10      17.00
DiRECT COSTS-WATER                14.87     18.20      22.80      51.10      79.50    132.40    185.10    214.00    237.00    264.70
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS               0.20      0.29       0.32        1.55      2.96       5.79      10.78       15.02      16.85      20.82
TAXE5                             0.00      0.00       0.00       0.C0       4.96      18.32      60.29      28.32      34.78       41.91
s= == = =4==  === == = ==  = = = =_= ==  === == == _  = == == = ==  = == == = ==  = == == = ==  = == =_= ===  = == == = ==  = == =_= = =
TOTAL COSTS                       15.07     18 49      23.12      52.65      87.42    156.51    256.17    257.34    288.63    327.43
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION       -3.07      -4.12      -7.28      28.90      69.94    156.47    349.35    563.27    599.10    638.51
DEFRECIATION                      12.94     17.02      21,12      28.90      55.v6    101.52    168.48    218.89    238.73    260.45
'NCOME BEFORE INTEREST          -16.01    -21.14    -28.40         0.01      14.88      54.95    180.87    344.38    360.37    378.07
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.            0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.0o       0.00       0.00    259.41    256.03    252.34
NET SURPLUS (t)                 -16.01    -21.14    -23.40         0.01      14.68      54.95    180.87       84.97    104.34    125.72
AVERAGE RATE BASE               361.12    461.61      557.50    7S3.44.   1469.75   2733.85   4518.88   5734.36   5995.17   6265.34
*OPERATING RATIO %              12.5.80   123.71      145.94      E4.53      55.55      50.01      42.31      31.36      32.51       33.90
*RATE CF RETURN ,- 4.43                     -4.Fl8     -5.09       0.0O       1.01       2.01       4.00       6.01       6.01        6.03
x



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PfOJECT
AMBON WATER ENTPR                                                                      MILL RUP
FLow of Funds
1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984       1985       1986      1987
SOURCES CF FUNDS
INCOPME BEFORE DEPRECIATION     -3.07     -4.12     -7.28      28.90     69.94    156.47    349.35    563.27    599.10    638.51
Gross Internal Generation    -3.07        -4.12    -`.28       28.90      69.94    156.47    349.35    563.27    599.10    638.51
LocaL Govt. Equity Increase* 49.67    106.24    205.44    491,17    593-07    286.61   -260.51            0.00       0.00       0.00
Consumer Contributions           0.00      0.00       C.00      0.50       0.90     2C.00      40.50     40.90      41.90      42.80
GOI Loan                            0.0    145.44    289.02    824.10    975.96    638.28       9.48      0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL LOANS                      0.00    145.44    2C9.02    824.10    975.96    638.28         9.48      0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL SOURCES                   46.60    247.56    437.18   1344.67   1644.37   1101.36    138.82    604.17    641.00    681.31
APPLICATICONS OF FUNDS
INVESTWENT IN PROJECT            0.00    242.40    481.70   1373.50   1626.60   1063.80        15.80      0.00       0.00       0.00
OTHER l'ORKS                    42.00      0.00       0.00      C.0 0      0.00      0.00      57.00     64.00      73.00      81.00
TOTAL IN'VESTMIENT              42.00    242.40    481.70   1373.50   1626.60   1063.60        72.80     64.00      73.00     81.00
GOI Loan1Amortization            0.00      0 00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     37.53      40.91      44.59
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               0.00      0.00       0.00      0.01       0.00      0. (0      0.00     37.53      40.92      44.60
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT        C.00     0o.o        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    259.41    256.03    252.34
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST       0.00      0.00       0. O0. 00            0.00      0.00       0.00    259.41    256.03    252.34
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               0.00      0.00       0.00      0.01       0.00      0.00       0.00    29S.94    296.94    296.94
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL         4.60      5.16       5.48    -28.83      10.27     37.55      66.02    243.23    271.06    303.37
TOTAL APPLIcATICNS              46.60    247.56    40E.18   1344.67   1644.87   1101,36    138.82    604.17    641.00    681.31
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00      1.90       2.02      2.15
TotaL
* IncLudes for Project:                                                                               1979-1984
Fayments from GOI             0.00    96.96   192.68    549.40   650.64   425.52              6.32  1,921.52
Less Repayments by WE          o.oo      o.oo       o.oo     58.23     52.57   138.91    266.83        516.54
Project Equity Increase    0.00    96.96   192.68   491.17   598.07   286.61  -260.51   1,404.09



INDO 'ESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AMBON WATER ENTPR                                       BaLance Sheet                          MILL RUP
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________-________________
1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1985       1986      1987
A S S E T 5
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.         439.91    561.09    681.33   1018.48   2220.51   3751,15   6159.54   6716.31   7326.61   7993.74
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION       27.87     49.90      77.51    114.94    182.64    298.77    491.15    749.34   1048.01   1392.30
__ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -
NET FIXED ASSETS              412.04    511.19    603.82    903.54   2037.87   3452.38   5668.39   5966.97   6278.60   6601.44
WORK IN PROGRESS               42.00    242.40    676.80   1788.10   2324.70   2035.50        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
CASH                            1.50       1.83      2.30      5.10      7.58      12.11     14.96    212.79    469.41    756.12
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE            39.00     44.01      40.99     16.31     31.47     62.60    121.10    164.12    177.55    193.19
INVENTORIES                     0.60      0.89       1.12      3.40      5.20      9.50      16.57     20.33     22.37      24,72
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS           41.10     4G.73      52.41     24.81     44.33     84.20    152.63    397.24    669.33    974.03
TOTAL ASSETS                  495.14    800.32   1333.03   2716.45   4406.90   5572.09   5821.02   6364.21   6947.93   7575.47
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
LocaL Govt. Eauity             396.07   502.31     707.75  1198.92    1796.99   2083.60   1823.09   1823.09   1823.09   1823.09
REVALUATION SURPLUS           114.77    186.94    2,5.39    321.82    421.20    584.23    860.42   1313.90   1791.25   2293.54
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS           -16.01    -37.15    -65.55    -65.54    -50.66       4.29    185.15    270.13    374.47    500.19
TOTAL EQUITY                  494.84    654.10    E97.60   1455.20   2167.54   2672.12   2868.67   3407.11   3988.81   4616.82
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)             0.00    145.44    434.46   1258.56   2234.52   2872.80   2844.75   2803.83   2759.24   2710.63
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                0.30      2.77       '.9^      2.20      3.44      5.76       8.17      9._D     10.59      11.91
CURRENT MATURITIES              0.00      0.C 0      0.00      0.00      0.CO      0.0,      37.53     40.91     44.59      48.61
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES       0.30      0.77       0.96      2.20      3.44      5.70      45.70     50.46     55.18      60.51
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIOnS          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.50      1.40     21.40      61.90    102.80    144.70    187.50
TOTAL LIABILITIES               0.30    145.22    42,.43   1261.26   2239.36   2899.96   2952.35   2957.10   2959.12   2958.64
TOrAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES      495.14    800.32   1333.03   2716.45   4406.90   5572.09   5821.02   6364.21   6947.93   7575.47
,WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION       40.80     45.96     54. 5      22.61     40.89     78.44    144.46    387.69    658.75    962.12
*CURRENT RATIO                137.00    60.62       54.37     11.30     12.89     14.61       3.34      7.87     12.13      16.10
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)            0.00      18.19     32.62     46.38     50.75     51 .81     49.79     45.14     40.89      36.99



I NDCN ES I /
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
~JEMBER WATER ENTPR                                            Income Statement                                    MILL RUP
1 978       1979-       1 980       1 981       1982        1 983       1934        1 985       1 986       1 987
POPULATION-THOUSAND                 109.60      111.52      113.47     11 5.46      117.48      119.53      121.62      123.75      125.92      128.12
POPULATION SERVED- WATER             33.50       36.36       43,.37      6-.32       93.70       97.17      101.37      103.63      106.67      108.79
POPULAT1ON RY STAND-POSTS            1 2. 00     1 6.00      20 .00      31 .60      42.18       441. 00     A7.00       48 .00      49. 80       51.00
POPULATION by connections            21 .50      22.36       2 3. 37     30.72       51 .52      53. 17      54 .37      55.63       56.87        57.79
%POPUL-A IION served water         30.56        34.40       3j.22       53.98       79.76       81 .2 9     63.35       83.74       847           4. 91
~~ POPULATION by  connections   19.61   ~20.05  20.60       26.61       43.95       44.49        44.70       4.6         45.17       45.11
CONNECTIONS- WATER                    2.00        2.11        2.40        4.60        7.61        7.90        8.10        8.30         8.50        8.65
VOLUMAE SOLD-MILLION  M3              0.74        1.17        1.26        1.26        3.13        3.72        3.92        4.12        4.30         4.47
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH             30.75       46.32       4 3. 75     22.84       34.26       39.23       40.32       41.36       42.12        43.06
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER             40 .00      35 .800     30. 00      30.00       23.00       23.C0       23.00       23.00       23.00        23.00
PRODUCTION-IMILL. r,3                 1.23        1.80        1.80        1.80        4.D6        4.63        5.09        5.35         5.58        5.81
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD           100.60      128.56      113.70       79.14      118.72    1136.16       137.57      141.44      143.32      146.20
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3          19.00       1 9 .00     19.00       41.26       46.63       81.39      125.91      153.59      160.55      167.44
WA TER   REVENUES                   14.02       22 .23      23.94       51.99      152.03      302.68      493.46      632 .70     689.82      748.44
TOTAL REVEtNUES                      14.02       22.23       23.94       51.99)    152.03       302.68      493.46      632.70      689.82      748.44
4AGES- WATER                          6. 20       7.60'      10.30       30.10       54.83       81.20       90.30      101.20      112.50       124.40
CHEMICALS                             2.10        4.90        5.20        5.70        6 .863      7.70        8.00        8.50        9.30         9.90  aN
PCWER                                 0.30        1.10        1.40        1.60        7 .00       8.80       16.30       24.70       33.70        41.70
MOATERIALS                            0 .30       0 .60       0. 00       1.40        8.10       17 . 00     23.90       29 .30      311.90       34.80
OTHER EXPENSES                        0 .70       0.90        1.20        3.60        6.60        9.70       10.830      12.10       13~. 50      14.90
DIRECT COSTS-wArER                    9.60       15.10       16.90       42.40       83.10      1 24.40(    149.30      175.80      200.90      225.70
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS                  0.30        0 .44       0.43        1.01        3.13        5.95        9.41       12.36       13.75        15.20
TAXES                                 0. 00       0.73        0.00        0. 00       4.31       1 7 .82     47.94       13.75       18.14        22.72
TOTAL COSTS                           9.90       16.28       19.38       43.41       90.53      147.97      206.64      201.91      2.32.79     263.62
INCOMlE 8EFCRE DEPRECIATION           4.12        5.95        4.56        8.8-0      31.49      154.71      286.82      430.79      457.0:3     484.82
DEPRECIATICN                          2.01        3 .76       5.01        8. 88      48.58    1,01.66       143.01      175.19      191.06      208.14
INCON! E LEFORE INTEREST              2.11        2.1.9      -3.45        C  0.03    12.92       52.86      143.81      255.60      265.98      276.67
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.                0. 00       0.00o       3. 00       0.9 0       0 .00       0 .0 0      0 .00     214.35      211.56      208.51
NET SURPLUS ()2.11                                2.119      -0.45        0.0 0      12.92       52.85      143.81       41.25       54.42        68.16
AVERAGE RATE BASE                    53.30       98.53      127.83     210.18    1261.58    2819.64    3584.17   4248.81    4418.69    4593.66
*OPERATING RATIO %                   70. 60      73.21       80.95       83.50       59 .55      48.89       41.88       31.91       33.75        35.22
*RATE OF RETURN %                     3.96        2.22       -0.35        0. 00       1.02        2.02        4.01        6.02        6.02         6.02



INDO,E SIA
JEMBER WATER ENTPR                                  SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT         MILL RUP
_____--_--_______--____________________________-- Flow of Funds ______-______________________________________-____
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1964       1985       1986      1987
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION       4.12       5.835     4.56       8.58      61.49    154.71    286.82    430.79    457.03    484.82
_ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ -- _ _- -   -- _ - --_   - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -_  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION        4.12       5.95      4.56       8.58      61.49    154.71    286.82    430.79    457.03    484.82
LocaL Govt. Equity Increase*     31.78    90.16    552.83    597.36    108.26    -57.42   -226.20           0.00       0.00      0.00
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIOnS           0.00       0.00       0.00     17.60      40.20     42.50      44.10      45.50     47.10      30.90
GOI Loan                         0.00    143-64    834.96    923.40    278.28    156.36         45.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL LOANS                      0.00    143.64    834.96    923.40    278.28    156.36         45.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
=   = === _= == = == == = == == = == == = _= == Z == = = =                = = = =     = = = =  = =
TOTAL SOURCES                   35.90    239 .75   1392.35   1546.94    483.24    296.15    149.72    476.29    504.13    515.72
APPLIC.aTICNS CF ,UNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT            0.00    2380.40   1391.60   1539.00    463.80    260.60        75.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER WORKS                     38.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      34.00      48.CO     55.00      45.00 o
TOTAL INVESTMFNT                38.00    239.40   1391.eo   1539.00    463.80    230.60    109.00          48.00     55.00      45.00
GOI Loan Amortization            o.oo       0.00      0.00       o. co      0.00      0.00       0.00     31.02      33.81      36.85
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               0.00       0.00      C.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      31.02     33.81      36.85
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.OEBT        0.00       O.Co       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    214.35    211.56    208.51
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0 00       0.00    214.35    211.56    208.51
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               0. 00      0.0       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       C.00    245.36    245.36    245.36
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL        -2.10       0. 3      0.75       7.94      24.44     35.55      40.72    182.93    203.77    225.35
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              35.90    239.75   1392.-5   1546.94    4e8.24    296.15    149.72    476.29    504.13    515.72
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       1.76      1.86       1.98
Total
*Includes for Project:                                                                                 1979-198
Payments from GOI               o.oo     95.76    556.64   615.60   185.52    104.24          30.00  1587.76
Less Repayments by WE           o.o0       5.60      3.81      18.24     77.26   161.66    256.20    522.77
Project Equity Increase         o.oo      90.16   552.83    597.36    108.26   -57.42  -226.20  1064.99



INDOtJES IA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
JEMBER WATER ENTPR                                          BaLance Sheet                         MILL RUP
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- --- - - - - -_ --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _- _ _- - -
1978     19;9       1283      '981       13°2       1933       1984      1985       1986       1987
A S Sc E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.           78.48    130.61    147.59    323.83   2369.80   3239.98   4656.10   5076.59   5537.72   6025.73
7',INUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION       3.79       3.24      1 /.32    24.47      75.73    133.65    341 .35    543.85    778.42   1048.83
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - --_ _ _   - - _-- _- -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - --_  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  _ _ _ _ _ -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - -       - -
NET FIXED ASSETS                74.69    122.37    133. 28    304.36   2294 07   3105.33   4314.75   4532.74   4759.30   4976.90
O:ORK IN PRCG3ESS               38.00    239.40   1631.00   30C5.CO   1464.00    095.00          0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
CASH                             1 .00      1.14       1 ._5     4.51       8.22      12.18     13.55    167.91    360.24    573.81
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              4.50       4.45       4.79     10.40      30.41     60.54      96.69    126.54    137.96    149.69
INVENTORIES                      1.30       1.82       1.98      2.34       4.65      8.15      10.53      12.47      13.G0      14.75
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - --_  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  _ _ _ _ _ -_ _ _ _ _ _ __-- - - -
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             6.80       7.40      3.71 17.26           43.1-8    83.87    122.77    306.93    5t1 10    738.25
TOTAL ASSETS                   119.49    369.13   1772.59   3326.62   3SD1.54   4181.20   4437.52   4839.66   5271.10   5715.15
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
LocaL Govt. Equity             105.18     195.34     748.17   1345.53    1453.79   1396.37   1170.17    1170.17   1170.17    1170.17
REVALUATION SURPLUS             11. 0      25.25     4.16      55.82    6L9.30    27.3a2    521.25    866.43   1229.05   1609.79  o
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS              2.11         .30      3.86      3.88      1 6 .78   69.63    213.44    254.70    309 12    377.28 w
TOTAL EQUITY                   119.09    224.89    793.18   1405.21   1559.83   1738.82   1904.86   2291.29   2708.33   3157.24
LONG TERM DEST(NET)              0.00    142.64    978.60   1902.00   2180.28   2336.64   2350.62   2316.82   2279.97   2239.80
ACCOGUNT PAYA6LES                0.40       0.65       0.61      1.61       3.60       5.44.     6.62       7.85       8 '.- 5   10.05
CURRENT MATURITIES               0.00       0.00       O.00      0. 00      0 .00      0.00     31.02      23.81      36.85      40.17
TOTAL CUJRRENT LIABILITIES       0.43       0.G5       0.81      1.81       3.60       5.44     37.63      41.65      45 80      50.21
CONSUMER CONTRIBurIOnS           0.00       0.00       0.CO     17.63      57.00    100.3-0    144.40    189.90    237 00    267.90
TOTAL LIABILITIES                0.40    144.29    973.41   1321.41   2241.68   2442.38   2532.66   2548.37   2562.77   2557.92
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES       119.49    369.18   1772.59   3226.62   3S01. 4   4181.20   4437.52   4839.66   5271.10   5715.15
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION         6.40       6.75       7.51     15.45      39.S3     75.43    116.15    299.08    502.85    728.21
*CURRENT RATIO                  17.00      11.42      10.29      9.53      12.09      14.88      3.26       7.37      11.17      14.70
, UE5T/(DE5T+EQUITY)             0.00      38.96     55.23      57.51      58.29     57.33      55.24      50.28      45.71      41.50
x-



Iii DONtESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KLATEN WATER ENTPR                                              Incm   Statement                                  MILL RUP
--   - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - - - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - - - -  - -  - - -  -
1978       1 979       1990        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987
POPULATION-THOUSAND                 64 L70      65.80       80.90       08.00       69.10       70.20D      71.40       72.60       73.70       75.10
POPULATION SERVED- WATER             0 .00       5.40        5 .4 0     24.99       31.12       37.54       41.45       45.29       47.31       49.01
POPULATION BY STAND-POSTS            0.00        5.40        5.40       15.05       1 3 .00     11.80       13.10       14.00       14.60       15.00
POPULATION by connections            o .oo       0.00o       0 .00       9.94       18.12       25.74       28.34       31.29       32.71       34.01
POPULATION served water            0 .00       8.21        8.07       36.75       45.04       53.47       58.05       62.38       64.19       65.26
%POPULATION  by connections   0.00              0 .00         . 0 0    14.02       26.22       36.66       39.69       43.10       44.38       45.28
CONNECTIONS- WATER                    0 .00      0.02        0.02        1.67        3.10        4.24        5.08        5.29        5.40        5.71
VOLUME SOLO-MILLION  M3              0.00        0.02        0.04        0.37        1.11        1.35        1.66        1.76        1.88        2.00
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH              0. 00     91.11      185.19       18.41       29.76       26.55       27.17       27.73       28.97       29.18
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER              0. 00     18. 00      18.00       18.00       18.00       18.00       18.00       18.00       18.00       18.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3                  0.-00       0.02        0.05        0.45        1.35        1 .65       2.02        2.15        2.29        2.44
PER CAPIT'A PRODUCTION LCD           0.00       12.18       24 .7 5     49.33      118.85      120.16      133.53      129.84      132.62      136.35
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF /M3           0. 00      70.-00      80 .0 0     90.00      145.07      1 87 .69   229.68       265.46      278.45      285.48
WATER   REVENUES                    0 .00       1~38        3.20       33.21      131.26     253.30      380.45      467.20      522.87       570.97
TOTAL REVENUES                       0.00        1.38        3 .2 0     33.21      112         253.38    380.45        467.20      522.87      570.97
WAGES- WATER                          0.00       1.10        6.70       22.70       54.60       62.60       72.70       82.30       96,40      107.10
CHLMIICALS                            0.00       0.10        0.20        0.50        1.90        2.50        3.20        3.50        3.90        4.30
POWER                                0.00        0.20        0.50        0. 70       1.80        1.20        1.30        1.40        1.50        1.70  .p-
MATER IALS                            0 .00      0.11        0.24        3.80       11.30       16.90       20 .20      23.40       26.20       28.80
OTHER EXPENSES                        0.00       0.13        0.80        2.70        6.60        7.50        8.70        9.90       11.60       12.90
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                    0 .00      1.64        8.44       30.40       75.40       90.70      106.10      120.50      139.60      154.80
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS                  0.00       0.03        0.06        0.66        2.99        4.73        6.96        8.80        9,95       11.00
T AX ES                               0 .00      0 .00       0 .0 0      0 .0 0      6.11       17.67       40 .73      11.66       17.52       22.66
TOTAL COSTS                           0 .00      1.67        8.50       31.06       64.49      113.10      153.78      140.96      167.08      188.46
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION           0 .00      -0.29       -5.30        2.15       76 .76     140.2a    2 26. 66     326.24       355.79      382.50
DEPRECIATION                          0. 00      0.59        1.25       1 9. 60     58.44       87.26      104.48      121 .11     135.29      149.00
INCOME BEFCRE INTEREST               0 .00      -0.88       -6.6      -17.46        1 8.-32     53.02     122.18      205.13      220 . 50     233.51
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.               0 .00       0.00        0.00        0 . 00      0 .00       0 . 00      0.00     170.14       167.93      165.51
NET SURPLUS(+                         0.00      -0.88       -6.56      -17.46       18.32       53.02      122.18       34.99       52.57       67.99
AVERAGE PATE BASE                     0 .00     18.7 1      39 .2 2    61 4. 47    1809.06    2U35.03   3049.06    3412.86    3667.79    3882.99
*OPERATING RATIO %                    0.00    121.23       265.75       93.54       52.40       44.64       40.42       30.17       31.95       33.01
*RATE OF RETURN' %                   0.00       -4.71      -16.72       -2.84        1.01        2.01        4.01        6.01        6.01        6.01



INDOIJESIA
KLATEN WATER ENTPR                                    SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT           MILL RUP
Flow of Funds
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986       1987
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION       -0.00      -0.29      -5.30       2.15      76.76    140.23    226.66    326.24    355.79    382.50
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION         -0.00      -0.29     -5.30        2.15      76.76    140.28    226.66    326.24    355.79    382.50
LocaL Govt. Equity Increase*     19.00      70.67      425.00    471.37      63.64    -16.15   -166.46         0.00       0.00        0.00
CONSUNlER CONTRIBUTIOnS            0.00       0.00      0.00      12.30      22.20      29.70      35.80       38.70      40.70      30.50
GOI Loan                          o.oo      75.90    628.56    715.b2    196.66    199.32          74.22       0.00       0.00        0.00
TOTAL LOANS                        0.00     75.90    628.56    715.62    196.86    199.32           74.22       0.00       0.00       0.00
========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  a=======
TOTAL SOURCES                     19.00    146.28   1048.26   1201.44    359.46    353.16    151.22    364.94    396.49    413.00
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT             0.00    126.50   1047.60   1192.70    328.1C    332.20    123.70              0.00       0.00       0.00
OTHER WORKS                       19.00      19.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      78.00      88.00      98.00
- - - - - - -__ -__ ___----- -------- a
TOTAL INVESTMENT                  19.00    145.50   1047.60   1192.70    328.10    332.20    123.70            78.00      88.00      98.00  @
GOI Loan Amortization             0.00       0.00       0 .00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       24.62      26.83      29.25
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                 0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      24.62      26.84      29.25
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00    170.14    167.93    165.51
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00    170.14    167.93    165.51
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                 0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00    194.76    194.77    194.76
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL          0.00       0.78       0.66       8.74      31.36      20.96      27.52       92.18    113.72    120.24
= == == = ==  = == == = ==  === == = ==  = == == = ==  = == == = ==  = == = = ===  = =-= = = ==  = == == = ==  =z_= == = ==  = == == == =
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                19.00    146.28   1048.26   1201.44    359.46    353.16    151.22    364.94    396.49    413.00
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                 0.00       0.00       o.o0       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       1.68       1.83       1.96
Total
* Includes for Project:                                                                                     1979-1984
Payments from GOI                o.oo     50.60    419.04    477.08    131.24    132.88          49.48  1260.32
Less Repayments by WE           0.00       0.00       0.00       5.71      67.60    149.03    235.94    458.28
Project Equity Increase          0.00     50.60    419.04    471.37        63.64    -16.15   -186.46    802.04
X



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KLATEN WATER ENTPR                                          BaLance Sheet                       MILL RUP
1978      1979      1980       1981      1932       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987
A S S E T 5
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.            0.00     38.00     42.94   1221.7G   2548.86   3080.37   3659.54   4154.00   4574.32   5038.26
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION         0.00      0.59       1.92     21.73     82.57    176.44    295.03    439.74    610.21    808.02
NET FIXED ASSETS                 0.00     37.41     a1.02   1200.03   2466.29   2904.43   3364.51   3714.26   3964.11   4230.24
wORK IN PROGRESS                19.00    126.50   1174.10   1192.70    328.10    332.20    123.70         0.00      0.00       0.00
CASH                             0.00      0.50       1.00      3.40      8.19       9.39     10.91      85.26    187.64    297.95
ACCOUNTS RECEIVA8LE              0.00      0.23      0.64       6.64     32.25      50.68     76.09      93.44    104.57    114.19
INVENTORIES                      0.00      0.10      0.15       1.42      4.36       6.40      7.72       8.88      9.93      10.92
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             0.00      0.88       1.79     11.47     44.80      66.47     94.72    187.58    302.15    423.07
TOTAL ASSETS                    19.00    164.79   1216.91   2404.20   2839.19   3303.10   3582.93   3901.84   4266.26   4653.31
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Local Govt. Equity              19.00     89.67    514.67    986.04   1049.68   1033.53    847.07    847.07    847.07    847.07
REVALUATION SURPLUS              0.00      0.00      4.86       9.38    141.38    338.68    571.04    840.20   1137.34   1454.47  Oc'
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS              0.00     -0.88     -7.44    -24.90      -6.58      46.44    168.63    203.62    256.19    324.18
________  --------  ----- ---  --------  --------   --------  --------   --------  --------   --------
TOTAL EQUITY                    19.00     88.79    512.09    970.52   1184.48   1418.66   1586.73   1890.88   2240.60   2625.72
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)              0.00     75.93    704.46   1420.C8   1616.94   1816.26   1865.66   1839.03   1809.78   1777.89
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                 0.00      0.10      0.35       1.30      3.27       3.98      4.71       5.39      6.24       6.91
CURRENT MATURITIES               0.00      3.00      0.00       0.00      0  00      0.00     24.62      26.83     29.25      31.88
TOTAL CUJRRFNT LIABILITIES       0.00      0.10      0.35       1.30      3.27       3.98     29.33      32.23     35.19      38.80
CONSUMER CONTRIBu7IlOnS          0.00      0. 0o      0.00     12.30     34.50      64.20    101.00    139.70    180.40    210.90
__  ___  _  ----- --_   _  -__---_ _--- - - -_  _ _- _-- _ _-  - -_ _ _ _ _ -  - -     - - -- -   - - --- -- -   - --- - -- -   - -- --- - -
TOTAL LIABILITIES                0.00     76.00    704.82   1433.68   1654.71   1884.44   1996.19   2010.96   2025.66   2027.59
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES        19.00    164.79   1216.91   2404.20   2839.19   3303.10   3582.93   3901.84   4266.26   4653.31
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION         0.00      0.78       1.44     10.17     41.53      62.49     90.01    182.19    295.91    416.15
*CURRENT RATIO                   0.00      8.80      5.05       8.Y5     13.71      16.70      3.23       5.82      8.51      10.90
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)             0.00     46.09     57.91      59.40     57.72      56.15     54.04      49.30     44.68      40.37
fr



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PARE-PARE WATER ENTR                                        Income Statement                          MILL RUP
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- _-- - - - - -_ --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984      1985       1986       1987
POPULATION-THOUSAND             70.20      71.25      72.32     73.41      74.51      75.63     76.76      77.91      79.08      80.27
POPULATION SERVED- WATER         4.08       7.16      11.50     21.45      59.40      60.39     61.28      63.03      64.02      64.91
POPULATION BY STAND-POSTS        0.00       0.00       4.50      4.80      28.20      28.20     28.20      28.20      28.20      28.20
POPULATION by connections        4.88       7.16       7.00     10.65      31.20      32.19     33.08      34.83      35.82      36.71
% POPULATION served water        6.95      10.05      15.90     29.21      79.72      79.85     79.83      80.89      80.95      80.86
% POPULATION by connections    6.95        10.05       9.68     22.68      41.87      42.56     43.09      44.70      45.29      45.73
CONNECTIONS- WATER               0.43       0.63       0.66      3.57       3.77       3.87      3.97       4.17       4.27       4.37
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3          0.12       0.13       0.35      0.40       2.21       2.31      2.42       2.53       2.63       2.73
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH        23.16      17.19      44.49      9.28      48.76      49.79     50.78      50.47      51.33      52.06
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER        54.00      50.00      34.00     25.00      18.00      18.30      18.00     18.00      18.00      18.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3              0.26       0.06       0.53      0.53       2.69       2.62      2.95       3.08       3.21t      3.33
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD      145,97      99.49    126.27      67.71    124.08    127.95    131.90    133.89    137.2-    140.53
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3    22.50       22.50      22.50     65.99      71.84    129.03    178.75    201.38    212.13    224.30
WATER   REVENUES                2.69       2.93       7.87     26.23    153.47    298.30    432.39    508.61    557.91    612.34
__ __ _  ___ ___ --------   ------- -   --------   --------   - -__ _ - - --______--- --  _ __5_ ___._9   - ________
TOTAL REVENUES                   2.69       2.93       7.87     26.23    158.47    298.38    432.39    508.61    557.91    612.34
WAGES- WATER                      6.30      7.70       9.60     11.30      37.90      56.40     78.80      89.10      99.5)    110.50
CHEMICALS                        0.00       0.00       0.70      0.80       3.90       4.20      4.50       4.80       5.50       5.90  a,
POWER                             1.50      1.80       4.60      5.40      28.80      33.90     39.00      44.40      51.0       58.30
MATERIALS                         0.12      0.20       0.40      0.90.      7.80      15.60      18.20     20.60      22.70      25.10
OTHER EXPENSES                   0.80       0.90       1.20      1.40       4.50       6.80       9.50     10.70      11.90      13.30
DIRECT COSTS-WATER               8.72      10.60      16.50     19.80      82.90    116.90    150.00    169.60    190.60    213.10
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS              0.05      0.06       0.16      0.52       3.09       5.55       8.22      9.60      11.05      12.01
TAXES                            0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       4.14      16.11     35.93       8.55      11.96      15.90
TOTAL COSTS                      8.77      10.66      16.66     20.32      90.13    138.56    194.16    187.75    213.61    241.01
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      -6.08      -7.73      -8.79      5.91      68.34    159.82    238.23    320.87    344.: )   371.33
DEPRECIATION                     0.85       1.48       2.51      5.91      55.91    111.50    130.44    147.20    162.2i   179.64
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST          -6.93      -9.21    -11.30       0.00      12.42      48.32    107.79    173.66    181.93    191.69
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.           0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0. .00    0.00    148.02    146.09    143.99
======= ========  ========  ======== ========  ========  ========  ========    =====   ===
NET SURPLUS (+)                 -6.93      -9.21    -11.30       0.00      12.42      48.32    107.79      25.64      35.1 J     ;7.70
AVERAGE RATE BASE                16.83     29.64      50.97    114.49   1222.88   2404.26   2687.72   2890.46   3024. 1   3188.58
*OPERATING RATIO %             325.90    364.40    211.64       77.45      56.88      46.44     44.90      36.91      38.1 3    6-.36
*RATE OF RETURN %              -41.06    -31.09    -22.17        0.00       1.02       2.01       4.01      6.01       6.1        6.02
Ln



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PARE-PARE WATER ENTR                                                                    MILL RUP
Flow of Funds
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985       1986      1987
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      -6.08      -7.73     -8.79       5.91     68.34    159.82    238.23    320.87    344.30    371.33
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION       -6.08      -7.73     -8.79       5.91      68.34    159.82    238.23    320.87    344.30    371.33
LocaL Govt. Equity Increase*     20.92     77.03     407.75    446.96      39.80    -S9.99   -195.85        0.00      0.00       0.00
CONSUMER CONTRIBuTilns           0.00       0.00       0.00     21.30      22.50     23.40      24.60      25.70     26.90       6.80
GOI Loan                          0.00     75.18    5 b96.70    705.30    149.46      91.98     26.04       0.00       0.00      U.O0
TOTAL LOANS                      0.00      75.18    596.70    705.30    149.46       91.98      26.04       0.00      0.00       0.00
TOTAL SOURCES                   14.84    144.48    995.67   1179.47    280.10    185.21         93.03    346.57    371.20    378.13
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT TN PROJECT            0.00    125.30    994.50   1175.50    249.10    153.30         43.40      0.00       0.00       0.00
OTHER WORKS                     19.00      19.00       L.u0      0.00       0.00      0.00      20.00      30.00    125.00      77.00  7
TOTAL INVESTMENT                19.00    144.30    994.50   1175.50    249.10    153.30         63.40      30.00    125.00      77.00
0
GOI Loan Amortization            o.oo       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0 00       0.00      21.42     23.35      25.45
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      21.42     23.35      25.45
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DE8T        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    148.02    146.09    143.99
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    148.02    146.09    143.99
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0 .00     0.00       0.00    169.44    169.44    169.44
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL        -4.16       0.10      1.17       3.97     31.00      31.91      29.63    147.12      76.77    131.69
=         = =  =  =  _                                                                             =  =  =  =     = = = =  = = = = = = = =  = = = = = = = =  = = = = = = = =  = = = = = = = =  . = = = = = = =  = = = = = = = =  = = = = = = = =
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              14.84    144.48    995.67   1179.47    280.10    185.21         93.03    346.57    371.20    378.13
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               0.00       O.OQo__   0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00        1.89      2.03       2.19
*IncLudes for Project:                                                                                   TotaL
Payments from GOI               o.oo     50.12   357.80   470.20         99.64      61.32     17.36  1096.44
Less Repayments by WE           0.00       o.oo      o.oo      23.24     59.84   151.31    213.21    447.60
Project Equity Increase         o.oo     50.12   397.80   446.96         39.80   -89.99  -195.85    648.84



INUIO1NESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PARE-PARE WATER ENTR                                        Balance Sheet                         MILL RUP
1978      1979       1980      19S1       1982       1983      1984       1985       1986      1987
A S S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.           22.88      46.00     70.98    204.09   2396.54   2789.66   3277.23   3569.41   3979.96   4375.36
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION         3.73       5.83       9.16     16.08      73.76    191.17    336.90    511.05    714.25    951.03
NET FIXED ASSETS                19.15      40.12     61.82    188.00   2322.77   2593.49   2940.33   3058.36   3265.71   3424.33
WORK IN PROGRESS                19.00    144.30   1119.30   2170.00    249.10    201.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
CASH                             1.00       1.16       1.44      1.70       5.69      8.46      11.82    143.68    210.60    331.46
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              0.54       0.59       1.57      5.25      31.69     59.68      86.48    101.72    111.58    122.47
INVENT4*IES                      0.10       0.22      0.36       0.56      3.86       6.53       7.49      8.38       9.31      10.23
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             1.64       1.96       3.38      7.50     41.24      74.67    105.79    253.79    331.49    464.16
========  ========  =======  ========  =======   ========  ========   = = = ====  = ====== ========
TOTAL ASSETS                    39.79    186.3S   11S5.00   2365.51   2613.11   2874.16   3046.12   3312.14   3597.20   3888.49
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Local Govt. Equity              41.02     118.05    525.80    972.76   1012.56    922.57    726.72        726.72    726.72     726.72
REVALUATION SURPLUS              5.40       8.85     14.06      20.86     41.55    227.37    435.25    670.47    915.14   1176.40   '
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS             -6.93    -16.14    -27.45    -27.45    -15.02        33.30    141.09    166.74    202.63    250.33
TOTAL EQUITY                    39.49    110.75    512.42    9GG.18   1039.03   1183.23   1303.06   1563.93   1844.49   2153.45
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)              0.00      75.18    671.88   1377.18   1526.64   1618.62   1623.24   1599.90   1574.45   1546.71
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                 0.30       0.44       0.69      0.85       3.59      5.11       6.60       7.47      8.41       9.39
CURRENT MATURITIES               0.00       0.00       0,00      0.00       0.00      0.00      21.42      23.35     25.45      27.74
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES        0.30       0.44       0,69      0.85       3.59      5.11      28.02      30.82     33.85      37,12
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIOns           0.00       0.00       0.00     21.30      43.80     67.20      91.80    117.50    144.40    151.20
TOTAL LIABILITIES                0.30      75.62    672.58   1399.33   1574.03   1690.93   1743.06   1748.21   1752.71   1735.04
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES        39.79    186.38   11d5.00   2365.51   2613.11   2874.16   3046.12   3312.14   3597.20   3888.49
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION         1.34       1.52      2.68       6.66     37.65      69.56      99.19    246.32    323.08    454.77
*CURRENT RATIO                   5.47       4.41      4.86       8.86      11.50     14.62       3.78       8.24      9.79      12.50
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)             0.00      40.43     56.73      58.77      59.50     57.77      55.47      50.57     46.05      41.80
141



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PURWAKARTA WATER ENT                                                                                  MILL RUP
Income Statement
1978      1979       1380       1931      1982       1983       1984       1965      1986       1987
POPULATION-THOUSAND              77.80     80.40      83.00      85.50     87.90      90.60      93.20      95.80      98.40    100.80
POPULATION SERVED- WATER          0.00      5.50       5.50       5.50      5.75      58.39      67.22      72.46     74.10       75.06
POPULATION BY STAND-POSTS         0.00      5.40       5.40       5.40      5.40      23.40      27.00      27.20     27.60      27.60
POPULATION by connections         0.00      0.10       0.10       0.10      0.35      34.99      40.22      45.26     46.50      47.46
% POPULATION served water         0.00      6.84       6.63       6.43      6.54      64.45      72.13      75.64      75.31      74.47
% POPULATION by connections    0.00         0.12       0.12       0.12      0.40      38.62      43.16      47.25      47.26     47.09
CONNECTIONS- WATER                0.00      0.02       0.02       0.02       2.22      6.34       7.44       8.40       8.74       8.90
VOLUM.E SOLD-MILLICN  M3          0.00      0.02       0.04       0.04       0.04      1.38       2.13       2.41       2.58       2.70
CONSUMPT TON/CONNEC/MONTH        69.44     84.54    172.59    172.59         1.51     18.12      23.87      23.92      24.61      25.25
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER          0.00     18.00      13.00      18.00      19.00     18.00      18.00      18.00      18.00      18.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3               0.00      0.02       0.05       0.05      0.05       1.68       2.60       2.94       3.15       3.29
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD        0.00      11.96      24.41      24.41     23.34      78.82    105.87    111.12    116.33    120.08
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3       0.00     70.00      80.00      90.00    110.00    164.72    201.73    241.86    302.02    378.09
WATER   REVENUES                 0.00      1.38       3.21       3.62      4.42    226.92    429.71    582.90    779.20   1020.02
_______  -_             ---  __-  __           --  --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
TOTAL REVENUES                    0.00      1.38       3.21       3.62      4.42    226.92    429.71    582.90    779.20   1020.02
WAGES- WATER                      0.00      1.10       6.70      14.30      16.50     63.80      90.50    102.80    115.90    130.90
CHEMICALS                         0.00      0.17       0.18       0.20      0.21      14.10      23.90      28.30      31.50      35.30  4
POWER                             0.00      0.27       0.84       0.96       1.40     47.80      85.70    106.50    125.10    144.10  0
MATERIALS                         0.00      0.10       0.20       0.30       0.60     10.90      25.90      34.60      39.90      43.30
OTHER EXPENSES                    0.00      0.10       0.80       1.70       2.00      7.70      10.90      12.30      13.90      15.70
_______   ----- -- -  _ _ _-- --_  - -- -----  ----- ---  - ------ -  - -- -- ---  - -- -- ---  - --- - -- -  --- -- --
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                0.00      1.74       8.72      17.48     20.71    144.3G    236.90    284.50    326.30    369.30
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS              0.00      0.03       0.06       0.07       0.09      4.41       8.09      11.57      16.00      20.50
TAXES                             0.00      0.00       0.00       0.CO       0.00      5.90      13.80       0.00       0.00     42.71
TOTAL COSTS                       0.00      1.77       8.78      17.55     20.80    154.61    258.80    296.07    342.30    432.51
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        0.00     -0.33      -5.57    -13.94    -16.38       72.31    170.92    286.83    436.90    587.51
DEPRECIATION                      0.00      0.57       1.21       1.36       3.05     54.60    129.51      172.80    199.37    216.63
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST            0.00     -0.96      -6.78    -15.30    -19.43       17.71      41.41     114.03    237.53    370.88
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.            0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00    249.54    246.29    242.75
======~~~~~==  = == = = ==  = == == = _=  = == = = ==  = == == = ==  = == == = ==  = == == = _=  = == == = ==  = = === = m===
NET SURPLUS (+)                   0.00     -0.96      -6.78    -15.30    -19.43       17.71      41.41   -135.52      -8.76    128.13
AVERAGE RATE BASE                 0.00     18.72      39.26      42.66     87.93   1743.43   4088.53   5303.60   5908.72   6159.80
*OPERATING RATIO %                0.00    128.48    273.28    485.38    470.57        68.13      60.23      50.79     43.93      42.40
*RATE OF RETURN %                 0.00     -5 .4    -17.28    -35.85    -22.10         1.02       1.01       2.15       4.02       6.02
x
ON'



INDONESIA
PURWAKARTA WATER ENT                                 SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT            MILL RUP
FLow of Funds
1978      1979       1980       1991       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986       1987
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        0.00      -O.39      -8.57    -13.94    -16.38        72.31     1 70.92    28G.83    436.90    587.51
_ _   _ _   _ _  - - -_ _ -   - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - --__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION          0.00     -0.39      -5.57    -13.94    -16-38        72.31    170.92    286.83    436.90    587.51
LocaL Govt. Equity Increase*      19.00     129.32    122.30    1150.13   1118.90    101.06  -119.13            0.00       0.00       0.00
(onsumer Lontrioutlons             0.00       0.00       " C0       0.00     17.60      49.S0       61.70      63.60      65.30      66.60
GOI Loans                          0 .00    109.15    16 .10   1135.30   1119.75    259.65          32.75       0.00       0.00       o.oo
TOTAL LOANS                        0.00    109.15    116.10   1135.so   1119.75    059.65          32.75        0.00       0.10       0.00
TOTAL SOURCES                     19.00    230.08    222.83   2_71.49   2239. 90    573.54    1 46.24    350.43    502.20    654.12
APPLICATIONS OF FL'NDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT             0.00    218.30    232.20   2270.60   2239.50    519.30           65.50        0.00 oo+o            0.00
OTHER WORKS                       19.00      19.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0 .00     32.00      37 .00     41.)0      46.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                  19.00    237.30    232.20   2270.60   2239.50    519.30          97.50       37.00      41.00      46.00
GOI Loan Amortization               00        0.00       0. o        00        0.00       0.00       0.00      36.11      39 36      42.90
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                 0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0..00      0.00        0.00      36.11      39.36      42.90
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT          0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00        0 . 0 0    0 .00    249.54    246 ^9    242.75
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST        0.00       0.0        0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00        0  00    249.54    240 :9    2 2.75
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                 0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00    285.65    285 '5    2f35.65
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL          0.00       0.78       0.63       0.89       0.46      54.24      48.74       27.78    175 55    322.46
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                19.00    238.38    232.83   2271.49   2039.96    573.54    146.2,          350.43    502 '0    iS4.12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                 0.00      0    0      .00  0     .00  0     .00  0.00       0.00 1O.00            I OO     3       2.06
Total
*IncLudes for Project:                                                                                       1 i79-z.
Payments from GOI                 0.00    109.15    116.10  1135.30  1119.75    259.65            32.75   2t72.70
Less Repayments by WE             0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.76      67.87    151.88    220.51
Project Equity Increase           0.00   109.15    116.10  1135.30  1118.99    191.78  -119.13  2_52.19



INDOI4ESIA
SECOND WATEk SUPPLY PROJECT
Balance Sheet
PURWAKARTA WATER ENT                                                                           MILL RUP
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1978      1979      1980      1981       1982      1983      1984      1985       1986      1987
A S S E T 5
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.           0.00     38.00     42.94      47.66    155.81   3484.47   5149.53   6370.49   6921.13   7520.82
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION        0.00      0.57       1.86      3.42      6.85     62.00    196.47    384.99    615.16    881.01
__ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
NET FIXED ASSETS                0.00     37.43      41.08     44.24    148.96   3422.47   4953.06   5985.50   6305.97   6639.81
JORK IN PROGRESS               19.00    218.30    450.50   272;.10   4857.70   20S0.80    772.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
CASH                            0.00      0.50       1.01      2.15      2.48      9.57      13.58      8.52    143.94    417.85
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE             0.00      0.28       0.64      0.72      0.88     45.38      85.94    116.58    155.84    204.00
INVENTORIES                     0.00      0.10       0.13      0.17      0.27      8.25      16.43     20.76     23.56      25.94
____ ___  - - - -- - - -  - - - - -- - -  - - - -- - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - -- - -- -  - -- - - - - -  - - - -- - - -  - -- - - - - -  ___
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS            0.00      0.88       1.77      3.03      3.63     63.20    115.95    145.86    323.34    647.79
TOTAL ASSETS                   19.00    256.61    493.36   2768._8   5010.29   5546.47   5841.01   6131.36   6629.31   7287.60
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
______________________
LocaL Govt. Equity             19.00    148.32    270.62   1420.75  2539.74    2731.52  2612.39   2612.39  2612.39   2612.39  Z
REVALUATION SURPLUS             0.00      0.00       4.87      9.38     14.25     26.17    299.97    696.21   1175.05   1679.53
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS             0.00     -0.96      -7.75    -23.04    -42.47    -24.77      16.64   -118.88   -127.64       0.49
TOTAL EQUITY                   19.00    147.36    267.74   1407.09   2511.52   2732.92   2928.99   3189.72   3659.80   4292.41
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)             0.00    109.15    225.25   1360.55   24£0.30   2739.95   2736.59   2697.24   2654.34   2607.58
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                0.00      0.10       0.37      0.73      3.87      6.20      10.22     12.35     14.27      16.25
CURRENT MATURITIES              0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      36.11     39.36     42.90      46.76
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES       0.00      0.10       0.37      0.73      0.8,      6.20     46.32      51.70     57.17      63.02
CONSUMER CONTRIBU NS            0.00      0.00       0.00      0.QZ     17.60     67.40    129.10    192.70    253.00    324.60
TOTAL LIABILITIES               0.00    109.25    225.62   1361.23   2493.77   2813.Db   2912.02   2941.64   2969.51   2995.20
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES       19.00    256.61    493.36   2768.38   5010.29   5546.47   5841.01   6131.36   6629.31   7287.60
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION        0.00      0.78       1.41      2.30      2.76     57.00    105.74    133.52    309.07    631.53
*CURRENT RATIO                  0.00      8.80       4.84      4.14      4.19     10.19      2.50       2.82      5.66      10.28
% DEBf/(DEBT+EQUITY)            0.00     42.55      45.69     49.16     49.69     50.06     48.30      45.82     42.04      37.79



INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TANGERANG WATER ENTR                                       Income Statement                           MILL RUP
1978      1979       1930       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
POPULATION-THOUSAND              75.20     77.00      78.80      80.70     82.70      94.70    106.70    124.80    126.90    129.10
POPULATION SERVED- WATER          4.64      12.87     12.87      13.86      51.98     69.45      86.88    109.12    119.78    123.62
POPULATION BY STAND-POSTS         0.00      7.50       7.50       7.50      18.20     21.15      22.50      22.50      26.40      25.96
POPULATION b) connections         4.64      5.37       5.37       6.36      33.78     48.30      64.38      86.62      93.38      97.66
% POPULATION served water         6.17      16.71     16.33      17.18      62.85     73.34      81.42      87.43      94.39      95.76
% POPULATION by connections   6.17           6.97      6.81       7.89      40.85     51.00      60.33      69.40      73.59      75.65
CONNECTIONS-  water               0.47      0.63       0.63       2.89       5.56       7.92     10.52      14.17      15.26      15.90
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3           0.03      0.19       0.31       0.34       1.20       3.75      4.91       6.07       6.67       7.85
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MCNTH          5.91      25.16     41.02       9.68      17.97     39.43      38.89      35.69      36.45      41.13
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER         45.00     40.C0      35.00      30.00      20.00      18.00     18.00      18.00      18.00      18.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3               0.06      0.32       0.48       0.48       1.50      4.57       5.99       7.40       8.14       9.57
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD        35.42     67.48    101.56       94.85      79.06    180.28    188.83    185.80    186.19    212.09
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3    30.00       30.00      30.00      94.51    138.68    139.42    194.37    204.09    209.24    209.27
WATER   REVENUES                 0.99      5.71       9.30      31.76    166.42    522.48    954.36   1238.39   1396.63   1642.22
TOTAL REVENUES                    0.99      5.71       9.30      31.76    166.42    522.48    954.36   1238.39   1396.63   1642.22
WAGES- WATER                      3.50       4.30      6.00      10.60      37.90     83.10    124.20    184.30    215.70    241.70   -
CHEMICALS                         1.30       3.20      5.10       5.50      14.00     43.50      62.00      82.40      93.90    119.00
POWER                             1.40      2.60       4.70       5.50      15.00     49.90      71.10      98.10    119.90    160.70
MATERIALS                         0.20       0.50      0.70       1.30      10.60      30.40     45.00      52.00      58.30      64.70
OTHER EXPENSES                    0.40       0.50      0.70       1.30       4.50      10.00     14.90      22.10      25.90      29.00
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                6.80      11.10     17.20      24.20      82.00    216.90    317.20    438.90    513.70    615.10
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS              0.02       0.11      0.19       0.64       o.12       9.74     17.68      23.S7      27.37      32.17
TAXES                             0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       5.70     32.24      93.00      25.86      38.51      65.92
TOTAL COSTS                       6.82      11.21     17.39      24.84      90.82    258.89    427.88    488.43    579.58    713.19
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION       -5.83     -5.51      -8.08       6.92      75.60    263.59    526.49    749.96    817.05    929.03
DEPRECIATION                      0.81       2.43      3.82       6.91      58.49    166.86    247.49    285.88    320.06    355.30
========  ========  ====_===  ========  =======  ========  ========  ========  ======== =_=====
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST           -6.64     -7.94    -11.90        0.00      17.11     96.73    279.00    464.08    496.99    573.73
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.            0.00      0.0O       0.00       0.C0       0.00      0.00       0.00    386.50    381.47    375.98
====,     ====        ====      ====        ====     ================== ===          ====Z       ====
NET SURPLUS (+)                  -6.64      -7.94    -11.90       0.00      17.11      96.73    279.00      77.58    115.53    197.75
AVERAGE RATE BASE                23.59      70.82    109.33    188.48   1669.72   4809.65   6961.15   7719.87   8261.32   8765.33
*OPERATING RATIO %              688.89    196.53    186.89       78.22      54.57     49.55      44.83      39.44      41.50      43.43
*RATE OF RETURN %               -28.15    -11.21    -10.89        0.00       1.01       2.01      4.01       6.01       6.02       6.55



IF!vOF!ESIA
SECONiD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TANGERANG WATER ENTR                                                                   MILL RUP
Flow of Funds              ML   U
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - - -_-- - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _ _ _ _ _ __- -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984       1985       1986      1987
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      -5.83     -5.51      -8.08      6.92      75.60    263.59    526.49    749.96    817.05    929.03
rPnnrS INTERNAL GENEkATION      -5.83     -5.51      -8.08      6.92      75.60    263.59    526.49    749.96    817.05    929.03
Local Equity Increase*          45.53    134.07    1191.80  1255.51    135.27   -141.31   -255.53         0.00       0.00      0.00
CONSUMER CCNTRIBUTIOnS           0.00      0.00       0.00     17.30      37.40     55.20      83.00    121.50    133.10    122.90
GOI Loan                         0.00    153.96   1774.14   1911.34    320.82    133.68         0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00-
TOTAL LOANS                      0.00    153.96   1774.14   1911.84    320.82    133.68         0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL SOURCES                   39.70    282.52   2957.86   3191.57    559.09    311.16    353.96    871.46    950.15   1051.93
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT            0.00    256.60   2956.90   3186.40    534.70    222.80         0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
OTHER WORKS                     38.00     25.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00    255.00    280.00    306.00    338.00   -
TOTAL INVESTMENT                38.00    281.60   2956.90   3186.40    534.70    222.80    255.00    280.00    306.00    338.00
GOI Loan Amortization            0.00      0.o00      u.UU      0.0        0.00      0.00       0.00     55.92      60.96      66.44
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     55.92      60.96      66.44
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    386.50    381.47    375.98
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    386.50    381.47    375.98
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    442.42    442.42    442.42
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL         1.70      0.92       0.96      5.17      34.39     88.36      98.96    149-04    201.73    271.50
======   ======   =====   ======   ======================== r== ===== ====
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              39.70    282.52   2957.86   3191.57    569.09    311.16    353.96    871.46    950.15   1051.93
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      1.70       1.85       2.10
TotaL
1979-84 
*IncLudes for Project:                                                                                   7
Payments from GOI              o.oo   102.64  1182.76  1274.56   213.88           89.12      o.oo  2862.96
Less Repayments by WE          0.00      0.00       0.00    19.05      78.61    230.43   255.53    583.62
Project Equity Increase        o.oo   102.64  1182.76  1255.51    135.27  -141.31  -255.53  2279.34



INDOt4ESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TANGERANG WATER ENTR                                       BaLance Sheet                           MILL RUP
1978      1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
A S S E T S 
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.            38.69    108.65    122.77    296.18   3248.46   6964.13   8135.27   9191.09  10206.37  11326.88
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION          1.50      4.20       8.56      16.42      76.71    249.70    517.17    844.43   1232.04   1685.90
NET FIXED ASSETS                 37.19    104.45    114.21    279.76   3171.75   6614.43   7618.1C   8346.66   8974.33   9640.98
WORK IN PROGRESS                 38.00    2566.0   3213.50   6240.00   3856.00    722.00    255.00    130.00    156.00    190.00
CASH                              0. 50     0.65       0.93       1.59      5.69      12.47      18.63    107.15    274.63    491.05
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE               0.80      1.14       1.86       6.35     33.28    104.50    190.87    247.68    279.-'23    328.44
INVENTORIES                       1.10      1.70       1.91       2.24      8.12      24.39      35.31      44.35      50.23      60.62
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS              2.40      3.49       4.70      10.19     47.39    141.35    244.82    399.18    604.'3    880.12
TOTAL ASSETS                     77.59    364,.54   3332.42   6529._5   7073.84   7477.78   8117.91   8875.84   9734.  ' 10711.10
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Local Govt. Equity              80.23     214.30   1406.10    2661.61   2796.88    2655.57    2400.04   2400.04   2400.0'    2400.04
REVALUATION SURPLUS               3.70     10.39      23.97      36.54     67.31    321.05    850.20   1459.65   2127.' 3   2845.33   3
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS              -6.64    -14.58    -26.48    -26.48       -9.37      87.37    366.37    443.95    559.. 7    757.22
TOTAL EQUITY                     77.29    210.11   1403.59   2671.67   2854.82   3063.99   3616.61   4303.64   5086.90   6002.60
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)               0.00    153.96   1928.10   3839.94   4160.76   4294.44   4238.52   4177.56   4111.11   4038.69
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                  0.30      0.47       0.72       1.04       3.55      9.45      13.96      19.29      22.56      26.99
CURRENT MATURITIES                0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      55.92      60.96      66."4      72.42
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES         0.30      0.47       0.72       1.04       3.55      9.45      69.89      80.25      89.' 1     99.42
CONSUNMER CONTRIBUTIO             0.00      0.00       0.00      17.30      54.70    109.90    192.90    314.40    447. 0    570.40
________  - ------__  _---_ _ _--  --------  ----- ---  - ------ -  --- ---- -  -- --- ---  - -----   -   - -- -----
TOTAL LIABILITIES                 0.30    154.43   1928.83   3858.28   4219.01   4413.79   4501.30   4572.20   4647. 2   4708.51
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES         77.59    364.54   3332.42   6529.95   7073.84   7477.78   8117.91   8875.84   9734. 2  10711.10
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION          2.10      3.02       3.99       9.15     43.54    131.90    230.85    379.89    581. 2    6.53.13
*CURRENT RATIO                    8.00      7.46       6.49       9.83      13.27     14.96       3.50       4.97       6. 9       8.85
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)              0.00     42.29      57.87      58.97      59.31     58.36      53.96      49.26      44. J      40.22



76                                 ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Financial Assumptions for Part A Water Enterprise
General
1.        The financial statements - income statements, flow of funds state-
ments and balance sheets - in Annexes 2 through 7 show for the six Water
Enterprises in Part A of the project the projected financial results of the
WEs' operations for the years 1978-1987. The basic assumptions for these
projections are given below.
Income Statements
Revenue
2.        Water production for each WE is based on the lower of the antici-
pated water demand of consumers or the projected water production and delivery
capacity of the WE.
3.        Unaccounted-for water is based for the first few years on the
experience of WEs having existing water supply systems, with percentages
declining gradually by reason of metering, leakage detection and waste
control programs. The percentages are projected to decline by 1981-82 to
about 23% of water production for Ambon and Jember; and to decline to, or be
maintained at, about 18% for the other WEs which will have new, or almost
entirely new, water supply systems.
4.        Continuation of the present estimated average water rates is
assumed through 1980 for the four WEs with existing systems. The gradual
increases in water rates projected after 1980, and the water rates for the
two WEs (Klaten and Purwakarta) which do not presently have water supply
systems, are designed to produce by 1985 (1987 in the case of Purwakarta) and
thereafter sufficient revenues to provide rates of return of at least 6% on
the value of net fixed asset in operation (less consumer contributions). The
projected water rate increases are summarized in paras 5.19-5.21 of the text
of the appraisal report. Rates of return covenants are based on revalued
fixed assets, and the financial forecasts project the fixed assets of the WEs
and the rates of return on a revalued basis (para 16 of this Annex).
5.        Charges for metered consumption are assumed to constitute all of
the operating revenues when the above program of water rate increases becomes
effective. Consumer payments for the cost of new service connections are
included in consumer contributions in the balance sheet and flow of funds
projections (para 21).



77                               ANNEX 8
Page 2
Operating Expenses
6.        Operating expenses are assumed at increasing levels required to
provide for adequate operation and maintenance of the systems and for expand-
ing water production and sales. Wage rates and unit prices for other expenses
are assumed to increase by reason of inflation at the annual price contin-
gency rates estimated for local costs, i.e., 30% in 1979, 20% in 1980, 15% in
1981 and 1982, and 10% annually thereafter ("inflation factor"), except where
otherwise indicated.
7.         Staff costs (wages) are based on phased increases in numbers of
staff recommended for each WE by the management consultants to implement the
program. Increased rates of compensation, in addition to the annual increase
by the inflation factor, are projected to enable the WEs to employ adequate
staff with the required skills.
8.         Chemicals are based on the chemical requirements for the volume of
water to be treated and the type of treatment required, and unit chemical
prices are increased to reflect the rupiah devaluation of November 1978
(para 15) and the annual price contingency rate of 7% estimated for foreign
costs.
9.        Power costs are based primarily on the projected volumes of water
to be pumped and on the applicable electric rates, increased annually by
the inflation factor.
10.       Materials for maintenance are assumed at about 0.6% annually of the
average revalued fixed assets in operation.
11.       Other expenses, relating primarily to costs of administration other
than wages, are projected at the annual rate of 12% of wages.
12.       Other indirect costs are the provisions for bad debts which are
assumed at 2% of annual revenue.
13.       Taxes, representing income taxes payable to GOI by each WE as a
Perusahaan Daerah, are assumed at the annual rate of 25% of taxable net
income (net income before the deduction of taxes on income).
14.       Depreciation is calculated at a composite rate developed for each WE
on the basis of the estimated useful life of each type of its fixed assets.
These composite rates, which are applied on a straight-line basis to the
average revalued fixed assets in operation, are for Ambon 3.4%, Jember 3.6%,
Klaten 3.1%, Pare-Pare 4.3%, Purwakarta 3.0% and Tangerang 3.3%.
Balance Sheets and Flow of Funds
15.       The amount of fixed assets in the initial balance sheet of each WE
as of December 31, 1978 (i.e. the four WEs with existing water supply systems)
was estimated by the consultants from available records and physical inspec-
tions at replacement cost, less allowance for depreciation, and adjustment



78                                   ANNEX 8
Page 3
has been made for the effect of the devaluation of the rupiah in November
1978 (from 415 to 625 per US$) on the estimated foreign cost component of
fixed assets.
16.       Fixed assets shown in the projections have been revalued, from 1978
for existing fixed assets and from the year placed in operation for property
additions, at the composite of the price contingency rates estimated for the
local and foreign cost components of fixed assets, i.e., 18% in 1979, 13% in
1980, 11% in 1981 and 1982, and 8% annually thereafter.
17.       Cash balances are projected at a minimum of 15% of annual wages.
18.       Accounts receivable are estimated at about 20% of annual billings,
with allowance also made where applicable for overdue accounts of government
agencies pending their reduction under the prompt payment covenants to be
included in the loan agreement.
19.       Inventories are projected at about four month's supply of chemicals
and materials.
20.       Accounts payable are estimated at one-half month's cash operating
expenses.
21.       Costs of new service connections are included in fixed assets,
and payments received from consumers for connections are credited to consumer
contributions. An average escalated cost of Rp 44,400 for connections
installed in the project is assumed (Rp. 63,600 for additional connections
to be installed later in Tangerang under its JABOTABEK extension program)
payable one-sixth upon installation and the balance in equal monthly install-
ments over a five-year period with an appropriate interest charge (interest
charge ignored for projections).
22.       The proceeds of the Bank loan, together with other GOI funds, will
be loaned by GOI to the WEs. The terms of the loans to the WEs and the
related aspects of the financing plan, on which understanding has been
reached with GOI, are as follows:
(a) Interest rate of 9% annually.
(b) Repayable in 48 equal semi-annual installments of principal and
interest following an approximately 5-1/2 year period of grace from
the date of the project loan agreement, which the projections
assume will be in June 1979. Under this assumption, the grace
period would be the 5-1/2 years ending in December 1984. Interest
will be waived during the grace period, and the first payment of
principal and interest will become due in 1985.
(c) GOI will lend to each WE 60% of the project costs and will make
available to the WE in the form of equity of the local government
in the WE the remaining 40% of project costs, except that for
Purwakarta such percentages will be 50% and 50%, respectively.



79                                 ANNEX 8
Page 4
Any surplus amounts which the WE is able to generate internally
from its operations during the grace period for the loans will be
repaid annually to GOI through the local government in reduction of
the balance of the funds made available to the WE in the form of
equity.
23.       The projections reflect the undertaking of GOI to finance the costs
of the initial rehabilitation programs for the WEs in the period 1978-80 with
GOI grants. The estimated costs are shown as other works in the flow of
funds statements and as local government equity in the balance sheets.
24.    It is assumed that any additional external funds which may be required
by the WEs for operations will be met through increases in equity by the
local governments. This occurs in the projections only in 1978-81 to a
relatively small extent for the WEs with the exception of Jember where
internally-generated funds are estimated to be sufficient. GOI has ensured
that, in any event, sufficient funds will be provided.



80
ANNEX 9-A
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Surabaya Water Enterprise
Income Statements
Rp millions
1978           1979
Actual        Estimate
Water produced (000 cu m)                    57,334          60,200
Water sold (000 cu m)                        46,547          48,800
% sales to production                          81              81
Number of connections (000)                      66               69
Average water rate (Rp per cu m)                 58               68
Water sales                                   2,722           3,329
New connections                               1,403            1,137
Other revenue                                    67               30
Total revenue                             4,192           4,496
Wages and allowances                            648              844
Power                                           400             522
Chemicals                                       178              231
Maintenance materials                           303              243
New connections                                 898             791
Taxes                                           146              128
Other expense                                    85               91
Operating expense before depreciation         2,658           2,850
Income before depreciation                    1,534           1,646
Depreciation                                  1,095           1,264
Income before interest                          439             382
Interest                                          -                -
Net income                                   439             382
Average net fixed assets                     19,600          22,200
Rate of return (percent)                        2.2              1.7



81
ANNEX 9-B
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Surabaya Water Enterprise
Flow of Funds
Rp millions
1978           1979
Actual        Estimate
Sources of Cash
Income before depreciation                  1,534         1,646
Increase in current liabilities               242            32
Total sources                           1,776         1,678
Applications of Cash
Capital expenditures                          905         1,185
Payment to municipality                       302           375
Loan to municipality                          250             -
Increase in accounts receivable               (45)           88
Increase in inventories                       457           192
Total applications                      1,869         1,840
Increase (decrease) in cash                    (93)          (162)
Cash at beginning                              350            257
Cash at end                                    257             95



82                   ANNEX 9-C
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Surabaya Water Enterprise
Balance Sheets
Rp millions
December 31
1978           1979
Actual        Estimate
Assets
Fixed assets in operation                 38,646            45,820
Less accumulated depreciation             17,770            22,336
Net fixed assets                          20,876            23,484
Work in progress                             218                 -
Cash                                         257                95
Accounts receivable - customers              865               999
- other                  62               16
Loan to municipality                          250              250
Prepayment to municipality                    302              375
Inventories                                1,944             2,136
Total current assets                   3,680             3,871
Total assets                          24,774           27, 355
Equity and Liabilities
Capital stock (owned by municipality)  17,000               17,000
Revaluation surplus                        6,770             9,239
Operational surplus                          439               519
Total equity                          24,209           26,758
Long-term debt                                    -                -
Accounts payable                                 29               38
Customers deposits                              113              126
Advance installments by Government              211              228
Taxes payable                                   156              138
Employee savings                                 56               67
Total current liabilities                565               597
Total equity and liabilities          24,774           27_355



ANNEX 9-D
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Statements
of Surabaya Water Enterprise
General
1.        Financial statements are shown for Surabaya Water Enterprise (WE)
in Annexes 9-A to 9-C. The 1978 statements show the actual results of
operations, as adjusted to reflect fixed assets and depreciation on a revalued
basis. The 1979 estimates are a revision of budget figures, similarly
adjusted for revaluation. The basic assumptions are given below.
Income Statement
Revenue
2.        Increases of 5% in water production, volume sales and number of
connections are estimated for 1979. Unaccounted-for water is estimated to
continue at about 19% of water production. Water revenues reflect an increase
of about 40% in average water rates, which became effective June 1, 1978.
The 1979 revenues assume an additional increase in average water rates of
about 8% on an annual basis from August 1979, i.e., effective for the last
five months of 1979; that rate increase has been proposed by the WE, and is
subject to the approval of the municipality.
Operating Expense
3.        Operating expenses are assumed at budgeted levels for 1979, including
increases over 1978 of about 30% in wages, power and chemical costs by reason
of rising unit prices and a moderate increase in the level of water production.
4.        Taxes represent income taxes payable to GOI by WEs as Perusahaan
Daerahs at the annual rate of approximately 25% of taxable net income (net
income before the deduction of taxes on income).
5.        Depreciation is calculated at a composite annual rate of 3% applied
on a straight-line basis to the average revalued gross fixed assets in
operation.
Balance Sheets and Flow of Funds
6.        The amounts of fixed assets in the balance sheets are shown at
revalued amounts. For this purpose, a valuation by consultants as of March
31, 1976 at approximate replacement cost, less accumulated depreciation, was
updated by including subsequent property additions; allowance for price
increases at a composite rate of 10% annually through 1978; and adjusting for
the effect of the devaluation of the rupiah in November 1978 (from 415 to 625
per US$), which was estimated to increase the total amount of fixed assets in
terms of rupiah by about 25%. For the December 31, 1979 estimated balance



ANNEX 9-D
Page 2
sheet, the year-end 1978 fixed assets were further increased by the composite
price contingency rate of 18% estimated for 1979 for local and foreign cost
components of fixed assets. The amounts of accumulated depreciation were
increased to correspond to the revaluation of the fixed assets.
7.        Revaluation surplus shown in the balance sheets is the surplus from
the revaluation of the fixed assets (para. 6) arising since a restatement of
the WE's fixed assets and establishment of the amount of its capital stock as
of December 31, 1977. The restatement was based on an assessment of the WE's
fixed assets by the municipality, with which the current revaluation is in
line before reflecting the 1978 and 1979 adjustments.
8.        Capital expenditures and changes in current assets and liabilities
for 1979 are based primarily on budgeted figures and are consistent with 1978
results.
9.        The WE has included in its balance sheet as a current asset in 1978
a prepayment (designated as "prepaid royalties") made to the municipality in
the amount of Rp 301.8 million and has budgeted a similar prepayment in the
amount of Rp 375 million for 1979. The 1978 payment has been treated in the
balance sheets as reduction of operational surplus in 1979. The operational
surplus shown for 1979 is before a deduction for the 1979 payment.



85                              ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  Sector Reports
Al. WHO/IBRD Sector Report, 1977
B.  Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bl. Feasibility Reports
(a) Ambon
(b) Jember
(c) Klaten
(d) Pare-Pare
(e) Purwakarta
(f) Surabaya
(g) Tangerang (with supplement for JABOTABEK alternative)
C.  Documents for Project Implementation
Cl. Guidelines for a National Standard Water Rate Structure
C2. Water Rates of the WEs
C3. Draft Policy Statement
C4. Initial Rehabilitation Program
C5. Project Content
C6. Monitoring Indicators
C7. Internal Rate of Return Data and Average Incremental Costs
C8. Report on Training Program, H.W. Barker, January 12, 1978
C9. DSE - Detailed Staffing Plan
ClO Interministerial Decree
Cll Reporting Requirements
C12 Ordinances Establishing the Water Enterprises






: z
0~~~~ 7   ..n;    ......      ......    
;~~~~~-~ ~                            L   .)S>-Z n     
h X  3n .  0  ]    r   r~   ;          ^>        <        a             ,        r2
t t   000                          6<   :<  >    ,=                                      va(
-7 f X ; -~~~ ;                                        7_ 2Xg  -Dm  Z 
22 ff'  ''                                     X                                                t
*    k          r'at--                  0E>tX   t; °ci  x3 
C)     A f;       :          >,,-o.   £t'S 
2 a fiS ?r4                                          g    zJg      
'  X       - 2 J.   _x3   ;<               _S             tY           o99~~~~iJ~/~   6
U8< 2r-  B                a2N7t l'7                                     G                  _
s~8   li                             t                         3   .,       \,r
c53   0 0  0       CX     /~~t,     -s-- i     3 
_ f _ _    |               3                               e 22} s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
2.         2AU       E      UIE              
_. i   j       ^                |              tn                               >   w m~~~~~~~~






IBRD 12939
\   28 1 PROPOSED NTAKE AND    ,                                                        AUGUST t977
WTER 7REATMENT PLANT      ;
$fANNM'A  8AY
_--100300
INPONESIA
--  INctoNeslA                         - se    X  E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GACLALAf 
Second Woter Supply Project                                                                  L ^  CAP
CITY OF AMBO,N
ma U*~r Ptps.d  ?utur2                                                                            /teS   <        /      I
250    250     __°°__ TmntiiR$                                                               1 00
Water trootmen plOaf                                  10
Moster plan bkoudory
0     0000        4000         6000erAIRIREBEAR
100-    ElevofnCofthttourS(rnetere)                                                                                /       SPRINGC    ,
:                        /3/             tKARANG ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~      ~     ~~~~~~~PANJA G  ^   -/4     0
FEET~~~~~~~~~~T
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAPe  )0.3i 1
2     ~E 2 0   TW  -d   5                                                                                     ;3 -
N                                CAP|n  10                      GAJAH'|              ,  5.-                      yuffs/ftAYf/
000  1500  2000  f         1                                    t~~~v~    /o w AP          9_4 0
20   0   6000|__,                  t                                 .'5 0
128'10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>~ALN






IBRD 12940
200                                                    04                                                                                                          JULY 1977
E,18010                                                                                                      R
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
/  EGALGEND6INOEA
I        ~SECOND WATER SUPPLY
120                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
CITY OF JEMBER
0 200  400  600  800 100CC
Al                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METER S
8'07'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~07
loo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGAL BAL,                                                        E.   zUs~JdePopsdPintiurPoir
T  N  S   I                                                                                                    ioo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KD   0  100    ___12.... Tran-i-io and Dwstrbutio
Main  (Diameter-i Mdlimeter)
x/                                           iJ    Deep Welks
8I Sor 'SBE                                                       sprigs
80         80 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMaster Plan Boundory
1CIANDR                                                                                                         Pressue Zone Boundary
-         Roa~-pdsR.
j                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roil-y  N
.-100-~*Cnor  M&erer
Pacfic Ocean
TEGAL!BSRkJ                                                              10r  --
113-45            SUMBER PAVI- 0 z






IBRD 12941
r 1U,32                                                                          AUGUST 977
MatS K  r4DMANSAN ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       JOGGANA
t                               - -m          =. a,,   EA       ,, _   _ 1_5_  GERGUNUNG
SEKARSLLI                                                             -     TO L       ,
; >. I19Q.  '\   ,    X   ; X    -r  2 X  t    t: r t ff  ,,9G !    j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                   ; 0
N, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/              BAR o;    SEMANGKAK  0,ENG  IKARANGANOM       /
TENGAH  -
-7040'.j                                                                                                                                                                                                  7040'
INDONESIA
Second Water Supply Prolject
CITY OF KLATEN
\ . 0> \ \ / ~~~~~~~KLATE/ \   $'M]N 
AAOJAYANPrjtPoet
TEGALY   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-Transmission and distribution mains
\0 T                                                                  (diameters in millimeters)
6= .=   . ._X;TONGGALANt<] =.  > 4z.- >  \   r n ';Mu  -                        -,   Deep wells
--Master plan boundary
Roads
-t-4-.Railway
Rivers
0        400        800       1200
. , ,5                                                                                   p 0'   110°tS  |   0    1000    2000    3000    4000
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~1tOP32'                                                                                  FEET






IBRD 12942
171904Q7E                                                                  TO (RATO P    N  TOAPPANO    NOVEMBER 1977
INDONESIA                                                            9,
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CITY OF PARE PARE                                                                     K  REANG
Propnod      Fuwue
zXisti 9     Pnto\                                                                                  KEG S         G j
-   - ~    Traamsision and Distrtbutfon Meats
*  rametsrs in Msimefters)
*FeopWers wel ls)                                                                    ' 9
R * -- *iW | :\ SOREANG SRNt/ 
+                       S36mP                               J           \  K SpdSAND FIL,ER7 S
A                               Purnpios Stations                                                                           /
-         Master Plan Boundary                                                                coP is 1/
Pressure Zone Boundr                                                                                /           //
RoadsI                                                                               "
R-iPers                                                      j           /      /     / jNGK WT      /      /            -  -
50o    Contour in Meters                                               / SOREANG
2-0 49 0   6 r                         .   Ct1  I   P R0I O 4           / /
UETERS                         18CAP40 M                                                                                   -
4~~~~~~OO'S  {                                               /                 L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INGK LAPADDE400-
)/LINGK UJUNI          K                                    9
~~ULU            ~BATh BL 
hfs                  i o  s       
I '                                                             I   IJY -      '  
;    /                               -I NG  
xl Y.    i                    V  '/                            L        !  
Stroit
xi    ||                         XA -  I' (                    r f
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
01.,.,< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Bank's' stffeoloirlyfo
LINGK CAPPA GAL UNG                                      This  ap has been prepared by the
th.con-enienb  of the readers f
r port t, \hi,,h it,,t  S attahed
5'                    ~~~~~~~denominations used sod the
SO                       ~~~~~~~~boundaries showyn on this map
ds not imply, onthe part of the
World Bank an  s affiliates, any
judgment sn the legal status of
.*oy territory o, any endorsement
or acceptance f such bondar-es.
IIAILANa ID        at
LINGK LUMPUE         /      ,                                        IS5OE1,
~ >MM              lIE    ,             "   /             )     
L10 oitcAI                                                                                                                                             Au tNG  J






I BRD 1294'
d                                                                                   LAND                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMBER iBE1
< INTAKE AND                                                                                  OooOWOOSlOoOOdOor,o 
R9ft NRR,A            /          JAN40
107'02
KIl I: C r   X    z ,   tv @ X   tQ, X   \ \                                           2BENTENC V XV                      t    L_//t       (                                l
UX_ao_ Tanmd1ntendniniilbUeesXoK                                                                                          1 /      -      ICA R/
.1 o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
RAWAROKO                      6030-
SECOND  ATR1JLYPROJECT
PROPOSFD PROJECT   FUTURE PROJECT
PUG          __100    _ T-onorission  0nd dislributiOo  mnains
U        L)      R~~~~~~~~~p eso dvia-.    ,,rslntr
- M       aster 1000           1oundary 50Mte     p   bound.0 y
I                               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ers                                                        IGD






IBRD 12945
y     , 6.                                                                                                                                                  AUGUST 1977
NEGLA  SARI
-          -     -To J_ k.,
CAP   500 '1~ =9,   -    ,    ,            '          ,*           BATU         CEPER
I ' PASAR tX'F    Sakit ?  A
1-  ~4 /f   CAP5(20 2_                                                                                                         PORIS PELAWAD
6-14'                                GERENDENG                        J r4_4                                                                                                                                                                           6014
/ C    t                                              I \   r\l  G1  . 11.S  '-l   |    TANAH   TINGGI                                                    PORIS   GAGA
EXISTIN                                                S       -
TREATME T             '             .     a
/~ Po rood    7 .  >PLANT r
'/'V' flr     SUKASARI
KARAWACI             / IL
IN DONESIA
Second Water Supply Project
CITY OF TANGERANG
E.,"ir~g    Prop-d   F.t-r
_I NEN'Tl TO     /  /       \t) 0/    1/                            Ex75              100         Transmission and distribution maoins
['tHUMI1U5 F' L'EI rN H li    i.J: /3 .  1/^ /                                            (diameters in millimeters)
.- -    -26r'3  F1ir /                       *          rJ    Reservoirs
I  §  Fut-rs drofXu4  \  \                   NOTE  ONLY THOSE EXISTING PIPELINES WHICH WILL NOT BE ABANDONED ARE                          TRaS;'zetVw Wsm0tMfvh,N,d,
SHOWN. SEE MASTER PLAN AND FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT FOR LOCATIONS                                     
OP EXISTING PIPELINES.                                                               ,aO      a,",
t  /  2  \t   II |  @  ,/r,             ---M aster pian boundory
"'A ~~~~~~~~~~~~*Roods                                                                                    I-
CIMONE~~~~~~~-               ~                                                         .---.--o Railwaiy                                              suakSO,RAA/AN
CAP 7ONE                                                                  0      100   00 0      ETS         1, 20
TWL 45  ._ _                                               METERS 1  20 30040  00 60    0
To Eoaor         To SRPPORg ~ ~~~~0            100   200 3000  4000   5000   6000  7000 



