>AJ~~  6:Cs, "-I/ 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11627-CZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CZECH REPUBLIC
TELECOHMNUICATIONS PROJECT
AUGUST 16, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 11627 CZ
Type: SAR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Central Europe Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
Ts docment has a restided disbutn and may be used by recipiens only in the perfonrace of
their offcil dutes. Its contens may no otherwise be dbslosed without Wodd Bank autlonzalldon



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Koruna (Kcs)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1987    1988        1989       1990        1991      1992
US$1.00         = Kcs  13.68    14.36        15.05       17.95       28.50    28.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                            US System
I meter (m)                                        3.208 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                                   0.6214 mile (mi)
I square kilometer                                 0.3861 square mile (mil)
I metric ton (m ton)                               0.9842 long ton (Ig ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                                    2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CR        -   Czech Republic
CRc       -   Ceske Radiokomunikaci
DEt.      -   Direct Exchange (telephone) Line
DON       -   Digital Overlay Network
EC        -   European Community
EBRD      -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB       -   European Investment Bank
FDM       -   Frequency Division Multiplex (method used in the analogue environment for
combining multiple conversations on a single wire or radio channel)
PMPT      -   former Czechoslovakian Federal Ministry for Post and Telecommunications
CDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
GOCR      -   Government of the Czech Republic
GSM       -   Group Special Mobile (proposed standard for digital cellular telephone systtms)
IDP       -   Institutional Development Program
JV        -   Joint Venture
MAN/WAN    Metropolitan Area or Wide Area Network
MB/s      -   Megabit per second
MIS       -   Management Information Systems
MOE       -   Ministry of the Economy
MW        -   Microwave
OSS       -   Operations Support System. for network maintenance
PBX       -   Private Branch Exchange
PHARE   -   EC grant program for providing assistance to CEE
PIU       -   Project Implementation Unit
PSTN      -   Public Switched Telephone (or Telecommunications) Network
SPC       -   Stored Program Control (type of digital switch)
SPT       -   Sprava Post a Telekomunikaci (Czech Republic's former Post ard
Telecommunications organization)
SPT Telecom s.p.
-   (current teleconmnunications operating company in the Czech Republic)
SR        -   Sprava Radiokomunikaci (Czech Republic's former Radio services provider)
TC        -   Telecommunications
TCMI    -   Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry
TCO       -   Telecommunications Operator: i.e., the telecom section of the SPT until separation,
ant' the telecom enterprise thereafter
USTDP   -   Un'ted States Trade Development Program
CZECH FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
CZECH REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
page
LOAN ANDPROJECTSUTMMARY .......................... i-iiu
I. INRODUCTION ...................................1 I
H.    THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR  ..................1
A.    Int uction ................. 
B.  Goveniment Authorities ..................                                        3
C.    Telecommunications Service Providers ..................                        4
D.  TelecommunicationsUs  ..................                                         9
E.    Telecommunications Manufacuing Industry ................... 9
m.  TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR POLICY ................... 10
IV.  DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ............................... 14
A.  Development Plns................................... 14
B.    Project Description and                  ...................... 15
V.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................................. 24
A.    Introduction ......................................  24
B.    Past Perfornance ................................... 25
C.    Projece  Finamial Performance .......................... 29
D.    FinaingPlan ..................................... 31
E.    Tadr   .....................................                                  32
F.    AccountingandF inac.33...........................                             3
0.    Cash Mageent ................................... 34
H.    Auiting .....................................                                 34
I.       eports .....................................                               35
J.     Financial Coveants ................    ................ 35
Ths document has a esicted d bution and msy be usid by eents only In the  morm
of their official dutie Its contents may aot otbrisL e  4acalosed witout World Dak authriation.



VI.    ECONOT*UC ANALYSIS .................................  35
A.    Rate of Return/BenefiRisks ............................ 35
B.    Environmentaland Health Aspect  .........................             .37
VII.  AGREEMENIS TO BE REACHED                ........................... 38
VII. TABLES
2.1   QualityofService ndicato   .....       ......  ................  7
4.1   Total ProgramCost: .............  ............... ... . 19
4.2   Itrject Financing ......................    ............  0
4.3   Procurement: .....................  ................ 21
4.4   Perfonnce       cators:.  .........................                     24
5.1  PantFinancialPerfoman  .......................... 
5.2   Projected Finacial Performance .........................  29
5.3   FinancingPlan: .........................                                32
ANNEXES
1     Organization Chart of SPT Telecom s.p.
2     CR Basic Telecom Data
3     CR Telephone Network Architecture
4     Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry
5     Physical Investment Data
6     Institutional Development Program
7     Training and Technical Assistance
8     Project Costs
9     Schedule of Disbursements
10    Implementation Schedule
iI    Performance Indicators
12    Financial Statements
13    Interational Comparison of Number of Employees per 1,000 DEL
14    Tariffs
15    Calculation of Intermal Rate of Retun
16    Recommendations: PA Consultants
Map No. IBRD-No. 24627, July 1993



CZECH REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrowes:               SPT Telecom s. p.
Guarantor:              Czech Republic
Amount:                 US$80 minlion
Terms:                  15 years maurity, including five years grace penod at the
Bak's sutdard variable interet rate. The foreig exchange
risk would be borne by the borrower.
Project Objectives:     The project would support the digitalization and expansion of
the core network to: (a) reduce congestion on key network
elements (thereby improving service for all subscribers); (b)
rapidly provide modem digital commuiications for businesses
(especially export-related businesses); and (c) provide a sound
foundation for fubilre modenizaion and expansion of the entire
network. The projeLt would also focus on institutional and
policy improvements aimed at: (a) incresed efficiency in TC
investment and operations; (b) improved quality of service; and
(c) transidon to fill commercial operaion.
Project Desciptio:      The project would support SPT Telecom's development program
for 1993-1995 and would consist of two main elements: (a)
constuction of a digital overlay network focussing mainly on
long-distance facilities but with apropriate complimentary
internatonal and local netwo  improvement; and (b) technical
assistance and taining to support insdtitonal improvements,
especially in financial management, hman resource
management, and market orienation.
Project Beneft:         The proposed project would help improve the quantity and
quality of telemmunications service-thereby directly
benefitting immediate users of these services and indirecdy
benefittng all sectors of the economy which depend on
commuznications. Direct beneficiaries would include all existing
subscribers (who would beneit from the improved quality which
will result from decongestion of the long-distance network); and
high volume subscribers rimarily businesses) who would



-ii-
benefit from access to modern digtal co catons. By
facilitating the performance of business and the spread of market
mchanism (which depend on telecommunctions), the project
woud benefit and support the development of the economy.
Project Rbb:            The pricial risks reae to: (a) the fcial strength of SPT
Telecom and its ability to sustain high investment; (b) the
implementation capacity of SPT Telecom; and (c) the limited
expence of the new Czech Govemment institutions. These
ridsk are acceptable because it is the Government's policy to
promote self-financing infrastructure investment, which means
that the Govemment has agreed to set tariff levels that will
permit the inplementatdon of the agreed development project.
Furthermore, the Government gives the highest priority to
investments in those areas of telecommunications in which the
customers are willing to pay higher rates for services rendered
and in which the tariffs are relatively low, leaving room for
these increases without loss of traffic.
Moreover, to increase the capacity of SPT Telecom to manage
these risks, a number of provisions have been made. Measures
to stengthen the financial management of SPT Telecom would
be included in the project, such as the creation of a strong
financial department and training of its staff, tariff studies
leading to reform and rebalancing, and the design and
plementation of commercial accounting systems and related
MIS. A series of financial covenants (tied to internal cash
generaton and operating ratio) are designed to ensure adequate
financial peromance of the borrower. A strong Project
plementation Unit (PIU) has been created in SPT Telecom,
which would be supported by technical assistance provided by
the project Initially, this unit is dealing with procurement
preparationi later, it would be responsible for project execution.
Finally, the Govermment's policy and regulatory function is
being developed with the assistance of consultants.



- iii -
:Coss:
ELt               Lo4Ca        Foreip          TOW
LOng Dismce Network        32.5           50.2           82.7
Local Network             451.2          174.9          626.1
Tecbnical Assisce          14.6           13.5           28.1
Otber                      37.S           31.9           69.4
Contigcies                 55.7           29.5           85.2
TOTAL                     591.5          300.0          891.5
US$ Millin
Lcal         Forep            TOa
BRD                         -             80.0           80.0
EJBB-                                     80.0           80.0
EBRD                                      80.0           80.0
Export crdit                -             60.0           60.0
SPT Telecom               591.5                         591.5
TOTAL                     591.5          300.0          891.5
Esd   Diue             (USS amuom):
IBRD FY:    FY94       Fns         FY96        FY97        FY9      FY99
Anmal       6          14         20         22           13       5
Cumulative  6         20          40         62          75        80
Ecnomic Rate of Rdu: Over 40%
Povety Ca y: 1 m o Taged  te               o: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Repot: 11627-CZE
Map: 3RD-No. 24627, Jul 1993.



CZECH REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Inormation systems in general, together with the telecommunication (TC)
networks which form their core, have become the central nervous system of the world's
economies, and they are becoming more sophisticated, more capable and more important
every day. However, the TC infrtcture of the Czech Republic (CR) is severely
underdeveloped. For most of the post-war period, the telecommunications network was
accorded low priority by the Govermment of the former Czechoslovada, with the result that
it is now inadequate to support the quantity and quality of economic activity generated by a
market-oriented economy of the CR's level.
1.02        Demand for TC services is increasing rapidly in the CR. This is already
putig a severe strain on the existng TC network. As the process of transformation
proceeds and economic growth picks up, the emergence of new private fms  operating in a
competiive, free-market mode and oriented toward the European and global economy will
accelerate still firther the increase in TC demand. Investment along traditional lines will not
be sufficient to prevent TC from becoming an increasingly severe constrait on economic
development. Therefore, a substantal change both in the magnitude and in the nature of TC
development will be necessary. As a result, the Government of the Czech Republic (GOCR)
and the Bank have identified the telecommunications sector as a major priority for investment
and reform and have designed the proposed program to meet the pressing needs of the sector.
I. THE STRUCTURE OF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01        The Czech telecommunications sector consists of the following five main parts:
(i)   Government authorities: The Ministry of the Economy of the Czech
Republic (MOE) exercises the Government's authority over the sector, except
for final approval of tariffs. The final authority for setting TC tariffs rests
with the Ministry of Finance (para. 3.16).
(ii)   Telecommuications operating company: The state-owned SPT Telecom
s.p. was created by the Czech Government and started operation as of JMuary
1, 1993. The same decree created Czech Radiocommunications, or CRc,
which operates microwave links for SPT Telecom as well as the nation's
broadcasting facilities. Furthermore the same decree also effectively split
telecommunications from the Post.



-2-
(iii)  Other TC operators: Currently several of the various Ministries and
industries own and operate their own private networks. These are largely
seprae from SPT Telecom's network, but they have some points of
interconnection with it. There are already a few joint ventres between SPT
Telecom and foreign investors, as well as several potential joint-ventures.
There are also a few specialzed operators that primaily exist on the basis of
leased SPT Telecom F"es, of which tle most important is the banking
network. Although node of these is a "TC operator", in the sense of offering
TC services to others on a commercial basis, some of thenD (including the
CRc) are beginning to think about becoming operators of one sort or another
in the future. Cellular service is being offered bv Eurotel, a new joint venture
between SPT Telecom and Atlantic West, with a 20 year franchise.
(iv)  Users of telecommunications services: Approximately 1,199,000 residential
subscribers and 508,000 govermnent and business subscribers.
(v)   The Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry (TCMI): Although not
strictly part of the TC services sector, the TCMI has a close and important
reationship with it. The industry was traditionally organized as a single
conglomerate, known as TESLA. Since the 1989 revolution, and subsequent
creation of the Czech Republic, large parts of this conglomerate have been
dismanded and the consituent parts now operate independently under names
which begin with TESIA, followed by the name of the town or suburb where
they are located. Traditionally TCMI of the former CSFR supplied 90% of
domestic needs for virtually all types of TC equipment (switches, cables,
multiplexors, microwave equipment, telephone sets etc.) and exported a
santal amount (primrily to the former USSR). However, the revolution
of 1989, and the subsequent relaxation of Westem controls on high-tech
exports, has presented the local TCMI with a severe dilemma: it must rapidly
convert its obsolete analog technology to modem digital technology or face
extinction. It is the view of the Bank that the development of SPT Telecom
should be insulated from whatever industrial policy the GOCR may choose for
the TCMI by a competitive procurement policy (para 2.33). There is now also
a major joint venture with Siemens to produce digital switching systems in
Prague.
2.02        The proposed Bank loan will be made to SPT Telecom with the guarantee of
the Govenment of the Czech Republic. Accordingly, these authorities are discussed in
greater detail below.



-3-
B. Government Authorities
The Ministry of the Economy of the Czech Republic (MOE)
2.03        The former Czechoslovakian Federal Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications (FMPT) was abolished in October, 1992. It had been the repository of
the Federal Government's statutory, regulatory (except tariffs), administrative and ownership
authority over the sector and, particularly, over the two SPTs, located in Prague and
Bratislava, respectively. In 1990, the FMPT ceded a substantial amount of authority to the
two Republics (including the power to appoint the Directors General of the SPTs).
However, the FMPT retained de jure pre-eminence and continued to exercise substantial de-
facto influence on what might otherwise be considered internal SPT issues (e.g., investment
planning, choice of equipment, joint venture negotiations, etc.). In the second half of 1991,
the Federal Ministry attempted to recoup some of the authority which had been ceded to the
Republics and the SPTs.
2.04        At the end of March 1992, a Telecommunications Law was passed (as an
amendment to the existing 1964 Law) which reaffimed the dominant legal position of the
then Federal Government (and, specifically, the FMPT) in TC regulation. However, this
law did not touch on the ownership of the SPTs. The law explicitly gave the FMPT the
following powers: (a) setting and enforcing technical standards and rules; (b) allocation and
control of radio frequencies; (c) conduct of international TC relations; (d) licensing public
long distance TC operators; (e) licensing private operators whose facilities cross Republic
boundaries; licensing mobile TC operators; and (f) licensing broadcasters. The law gave the
Republics the power to license and regulate local telecommunications operators, but the
Federal Government was given the authority to define the boundary between local and long-
distance.
Regulatory Structure
2.05      No framework for a separate regulatory function has been set up so far. The
existing Federal law will remain in force until it is replaced by new Republican legislation.
In general, it is planned that the Ministry of the Economy (MOE) will take responsibility for
setting strategy and policy for the sector, and a separate telecommunications regulatory
agency headed by a Director General for Telecommunications will be set up to be in charge
of setting tariff policy, assigning radio frequencies, homologization, etc. This agency would
be set up based on recommendations from a study done by PA Consultants together with
outside legal experts (see Annex 16). Preparation and adoption of the new
Telecommunications Law will be required for these plans to be implemented.
2.06        Price regulation. The existing regulatory scheme for pricing is still in its
infancy. The MOE is currently preparing a proposal for tariff changes, but the final
authority for adoption of tariff adjustments rests with the Ministry of Finance. Until the new
law is adopted, existing Federal law will continue in force, although the existing criteria and
methodology for setting TC tariffs--both in terms of level and structure--are rudimentary.
The Bank and the EIB will work closely with SPT Telecom under the Institutional



-4-
Development Program (pan 4.12) to improve its capability in desiing tariffs. The
Government's capability in this area will be addressed by the PHARE program assistance.
C. Telecommunications Service Proriders
SPT Telecom s.p.
2.07         SPT Telecom s. p. currendy delivers TC services to funal customers.
Telecommunications was split off from the other activides of the former SPT at the end of
1992, when SPT Telecom became an independent telecommunicatins company, functioning
as a state enterprise under te law 111/1990 on January 1, 1993. At the same time, the
former Sprava Radiokomunkci (SR) was constituted as a separate entity, Ceske
Radiokomunikaci (CRc). Currently, thert are plans to transform SPT Telecom into a joint
stock company by means of a -oucher privatization program of the minority part of the
company, along with a new share issue aimed at foreign interests. However, it is recognized
that privatization camot proceed until a proper regulatory enviroment can be set up, and
until a well defined and functioning tariff-seig mechanism is in place.
2.08        Organizatn. SPr Telecom is organized on a territorial basis into seven
regional authorities. The regions are further divided into 72 district organizations. In
addton to the tetorial unts, there are several special fiutional units, or branches. The
major branches cover the interuran cable network, TC operations in Prague, and long-
distance and international network and services (see Annex 1).
2.09        Exsting fadlites. At the end of 1991, there were about 3.1 million
telephones and 1.7 million diect exchange lines (DEILs) in operation in the Czech Republic,
giving a density of 16.6 DEls per 100 population (see Annex 11). These mnmbers, while
slghtly higher than in other CEE countries, are far lower than in Wesiern European
countries (including those with relatively similar income levels) and much below what is
needed. Ihe regisered waiting  Ist of 418,424 at SPT Telecom is equivalent to an average
waiting time of 5.3 years. In fact, the real number of unserved customers is much higher,
since in situations of such large and chronic excess demand, registered waitng lists greatly
understate the actual demand, usually by a factor of 50% or more, because potential
customers consider it futile to register.
2.10        Telephone penetration is also geographically unbalaced. Penetration exceeds
30% in Prague, but is far lower in all other towns and in t;e vilages and countryside;
typically it runs between 2 and 6%, except for Brno and Ostrawa, which have a penetration
of just over 10%.
2.11        SwitchIng network design. The national network is designed as a unit.
Network topology is a three level hierarchy. The top level is comprised of 15 transit
switches (all crossbar) wh.ch are directly interconnected with each other in a mesh network
(see Annex 3). Two centrl exchanges are located in Prague and Brno, and the Prague
centrl exchange acts as a combined transit exchange and main international gateway.



-5-
2.12        The second level of the hierarchy consists of 161 nodal exchanges which are
also all crossbar. Below this Is the td  level consisting of approximately 3,063 local
exchanges. The local telephone network is virually fully automated; equipment is almost all
electro-mechanical analog-srowger and crossbar. There are a few early vintage E-10 digital
exchanges of Polish manufacue, but their significance for network design and capability is
negligible.
2.13        Long Distace Systems. The long distance network comprises some 72,635
trunk exchaLge lines intrconnected with 4,300 tube klm of coaxial cables carrying Frequency
Division Multiplex transmission systems of 300 to 2,700 channels. There are some 94,218
kn of symmetrical cables carrying 60-120 channel systems. Furthermore, there ar 3,000
route lkm of microwave links employing systems of 300 to 1,800 channeis. These are
operated by the CRc (paras. 2.23, 3.11-3.12) There are 108,197 channels of multiplexing
equipment.
2.14        The longistance network, (especially the cable network) is of relatively
recent vintage and is in fairly good condition. However, its capacity, capability and
architecture are old-fashioned, inefficient and ill-suited to the needs of modem
telecommunication systems. Nevertbeless, the comparatively good condition of this portion
of the network has implications for the design of the proposed Digital Overlay Network
(DON) which has been adjusted to make maximum use of existing trunk cable capacity (parm
4.09).
2.15        Internaional Faciliies. Internatonal traffic is handled by a main
international exchange in Prague (crossbar of Ericsson design, ARK-SPC). It was
manufactured by Nikola Tesla in Yugoslavia on license. The total number of circuits is
2,204.
2.16        Telex/telegraph/data. The telex network is fully automatic with a total
installed capacity of 10,722 subscriber lines, of which 6,816 are connected. About 985
potential subscribers awaiting connection were registered in 1991. The telegraph is sdll
fairly popular, especially among private citizens in rurl areas, because of the scarcity of
telephones. Currently, about 4.6 million inland telegrams are tnmitted per year. In the
West, the advent of fax, voice mail, electronic mail and similar services has practically
eliminated the telegraph and is rapidly eliminat  telex. In CEE, however, the scarcity and
congestion of the telephone network (which is the medium for the newer services) keeps
Telex (for business customers) and telegraph (primarily for private individuals) afloat and of
continuing significance. However, as the telephone system improves-and especially as the
planned DON comes into operation during the next 2-4 years--one can expect these two
services to go into decline in CEE as they have in the West.
2.17        Data services, as these are understood in the West, are almost non-existent.
There are about 17,400 Fax machines and about 4,077 customers using data systems based
on SPT Telecom leased lines A joint venture to build a packet switched data network has
been formed with Atlantic West. The network is expected to be operational by mid-1993.



-6-
2.18        Mobile serice. In addition to existing limited traditional mobile radio
services (for police, etc.) cellular telephone service has receitly been initiated. The new
cellular service is based on a license awarded to Eurotel, a joint venture between SPT
Telecom and Atlantic West (which is itself a joint venture between Bell Atlantic and US
West).
2.19        Eurotel is S1% owned by SPT Telecom, while Atlandc West owns the
remaining 49%. The venture is offering service based on analog technology operating in the
450 Mhz band using Nokia equipment. It has an exclusive fianchise for 20 years to operate
in this band. Atlantic West hopes that the franchise will be upgraded and extended when the
890 and 900 Mhz bands become available, together with GSM digital systems standards (this
is expected in late 1993). However, there is no guarantee of this; the Czech authorides may
decide to open the additional bands for one or more other carriers.
2.20        So far the Eurotel venture is growing very slowly; nearly twelve months after
service was initiated, only 700 cellular subscribers had been connected in the former CSFR.
The main reasons appear to be high tariffs and connection charges and the reluctance of
Atlantic West to invest in additional infrastructure or to market its services aggressively.
2.21           ,Jlty of Service. The overall quality of telecommunications service in the
CR has been poor compared to that available in Western Europe - including those countries
with middle incomes (see Table 2.1). Furthermore, quality is deterioradng. Congestion, in
pardcular, is steadily reducing the call completion rate, especially in the long-distance
network. In general, call completion can decline to about 38 - 40%; after this point, if the
number of unsuccessful calls clogging the system rises further, a network begins to jam, thus
causing a rapidly accelerating decline in completion rates and a perceived collapse of quality.
Currently, call completion rates in the Czech Republic are at or below this crucial point,
ranging from 35 to 49 percent, depending on whether the call is local, long distance, or
international. Indeed, some routes are already experiencing completion rates of below 20%
(and occasionally as low as 5%) in busy hours. At these low rates, the network is almost
non-functional. When the network jams, costs actually rise (since the equipment is working
at higher than designed capacity)-while revenues plummet (since only successfl caLs yield
revenue). Since TC networks in the Czech Republic do not have the capability common to
electric power networks of cutdng off low priority customers for a period when demand
overloads the network, it is cridcal for TC networks to avoid the problem in the first place
by building necessary capacity.



- 7 -
Table 2.1: COMPARATIVE QUAUTY OF SERVICE INDICATORS, 1989
Czech     Hungary   Poland      Average
Rep.                            European
Comnmunity
Call conipletion rate,  36%       38%        37%        65%
local
Call completion rate,   36%       36%        38%        60%
long dist.
2.22        Organization of maintenance in the Czech Republic is relatively good, at least
by CEE standards. Outside plant is somewhat better tdan average for the region and the
long-distance trunk cable network is relatively new and in good condition. The prncipal
difficulties in the network are due more to antiquated equipment and inadequate capacity in
the face of rapidly expanding demand than to poor maintenance. However, with the rapid
introduction of new digital and optical technology, the nature and organization of
maintenance activities will change substantially. Training and organizational adjustment will
have to be stepped up to keep pace. These will be dealt with in the appropriate parts of the
Institutional Development Program (para 4.16).
Other Service Providers
2.23        The Ceske Radiokomunikai (CRc). The CRc is an independent state
enterprise operating separately from SPT Telecom but under the same umbrella of
goverment ministerial control. The CRc provides the infrastucture and service elements
for broadcasting (but not the programming). These elements include long-distance tunk
distribution of broadcast signals as well as over-the-air broadcasting to final audiences. In
addition, the CRc provides and operates the microwave channels currently used by SPT
Telecom. However, in the future, SPT Telecom will begin to purchase its own microwave
truk equipmment (para 7.01 (a) (vi)).
2.24        Other MWistries and Enterprises. A number of other ministries besides the
MOE have the authority to build and operate their own TC networks and have done so.
Under this authority a number of independent TC networks exist, e.g., those of the military,
railroads, rivers commission, airlines administration, pipelines and electricity system. The
technology of these networks is roughly the same as that of the main telephone network, but
with simpler architectures and less capacity and capability. Most of them have at least a few
points of interconnection with the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), but this
interconnection is accomplished under standards that give them the status of being large
customers with PBXs rather than being dictly integrated into the PSTN's own workings.



- 8-
2.25        Recent legislation continues to allow these organizations to build and operate
networks for their own use without licenses. However, should they wish to connect their
networks to the "United Telecommu,iications Network" (i.e., the PSTN) or to offer services
to the public then they would require a license (para. 3.06).
2.26       Jont Ventures (JVs). Two JVs with SPT Telecom are now in place and
operating. The first, aleady described in pans 2.18 - 2.20, is with Bell Atlantic and US
West for a cellular mobile telephone service and a packet switched data service. The second
is with the Dutch PlT's consulting firm (NePosTel) for the development of software. A
number of other NVs are currently under negotiation and nearing completion, including one
with a French company for a nationwide paging system. Each of these is structured so that
SPT Telecom would retain majority control and the JV would be operated under t  terms
required by current State Enterprise Law.
2.27        Independent operators. When compared with Hungary and Poland, the
Czech Republic has so far seen relatively little overt activity by potential independent
operators. An exception is the network being constructed by the bans. Initially, this would
uilize an optical fiber loop to link banking locations in Prague and connect them to the
planned digital switch. Simultaneously, the banks are developing a nationwide nework
Primarily using leased SPT Telecom lines and facilities (supplemented with new iudependent
constuction where necessary). The banking network is being done in full cooperation with
SPT Telecom, but future networks may be more independent, especially if/when it becomes
apparent that such networks (mcluding the Banklng network) have spare capacity (with zero
or near-zero marginal costs) which can be made available to third parties at rates which are
Very favorable compared to SPT Telecom facilities. The draft law would pernit the entry of
new operators independent of SPT Telecom, but would require them to obtain licenses from
the MOE (para. 3.06).
2.28        There has also been some activity among potential "interconnect" companies
but, so far, not very much. These sorts of companies begin by offering simple "add-ons" to
the exisng TC network (by providing terminal equipment, PABXs, LANs, etc.). Typically,
however, they tend to expand the scope of their activities into Metropolitan Area Networks
and Wide Area Networks (MANs/WANs) with sophisticated capabilities. As such they are
one of the main avenues by which competition enters the TC market. These sorts of
companies are becoming active in neighbonng countries and one can expect the same in the
Czech Republic if they are permitted. The new law explicitly permits networks which are
confined to a single premise (LANs) to operate without a license, which will presumably
encourage these arrangements. Wider networks are usually classified as a part of the public
network and hence require a license. On the other hand, if they come under the category of
whatever the Ministry uldmately defines as "local" telecommunications, it would be up to the
Government to decide whether they need licenses or not.
D. Telecommunications Users
2.29        There is substanial and growing pressure on the Government to provide rapid
improvement in TC services. This comes both from the general population, most of which



- 9 -
does not have a telephone at all, and frm businesses and large organizations which geneally
have basic telephone service--but far less (both in quantity and quality) than they would need
to compete in modem global markets. This pressure expresses itself, among other things, in
speeches by governent officials and members of Parliament calling for radical liberalization
and privatization. It is probably also finding an outlet in the efforts of large enterprise to
develop bypass options, primarily by building their own TC networks (of which the
previously mentioned banking network is an example).
E. The Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry (TCMI)
2.30        Like most other CEE countries, the Czech Republic has a large, full-range
TCMI which, in the past, made the county practically self-sufficient in TC equipment.
Prior to the revolution in late 1989, the former Czechoslovak TCMI supplied 90% of the
equipment required by the domestic TC sector, as well as exporting a significant amount--
primarily to the former USSR. At that time, virtally all TC manufacuring was in the hands
of a single conglomerate, TESLA. Today, the TCMI is composed of a number of factories,
all of which were formerly part of TESLA, but which have now been broken off. All still
retain the first name, TESLA, foRowed by the name of the town or suburb where they are
located. Most of these are actively seeking, and some have found, foreign joint vetre
partners in order to obtain modem technology and capital. Nevertheless, there is a question
as to whether al of them can remain in business and remain competitive. A summary of the
industry, its products, level of employment etc. is contained in Annex 4.
2.31        A joint venture has been concluded with Siemens (Tescom-Tesla Karlin) to
produce digital (EWSD) switching systems in Prague. Siemens was chosen after a
competitive process which was similar to ICB and yielded good prices for what are
competitive modern systems. The JV has been guaranteed 30% of SPT Telecom's demand
through 1995; another 30% of SPT Telecom's demand has been guaranteed to the Alcatel-
SEL JV in Slovakia. (The remaining 40% is, in principle, open for competitive bidding.)
The supply contracts for 1992 have been signed and are being financed by export credits
from KFW, the German Government's reconstruction credit agency. Similar supply
contracts following the same arrangements have been finalized for 1993 subject to financing
agreements. Cable, transmission and terminal equipment producers are also looking for
foreign joint venture partners, but no firm agreements have yet been achieved.
2.32        There is no question that the switching systems chosen are of internationally
competitve quality and that the prices obtained were also good by international competitive
standards. But the profile of delivery volumes is, in the Bank's view, suboptimal, with too
much being delivered too soon. This leads to "warehousing" of expensive equipment until
the entire supporting network can be put in place to allow the equipment to be fully utilized.
However, these decisions have already been taken. Where possible, the Bank has worked to
stretch out the deliveries and reduce the warehousing effect, but it has not been possible to
eliminate it altogether. To minimize the damage of the remaining "excess" early deliveries,
some aspects of the Bank's own project have been rearranged to permit earlier utilization of



- 10-
some of the Siemens and SEL deliveries. The end result, while still somewhat less than
optimal, is the best that can be managed, given the cimstances and prior decisions.
2.33        The existing contract with Siemens (or any other manufacturer) ensures good
prices and terms through 1995, and for the duration of the Bank-supported investment
program as well. However, it remains to be seen whether Siemens will be able to produce
world class equipment in the Czech Republic with a significant amount of domestic value-
added services at competitive prices. For this reason, it is important that the economics of
investment in TC networks be insulated from the fate of the domestic TCMI by competitive
procurement practices to ensure that SPT Telecom and other operators have access t. quality
equipment at competitive prices, whether domestic firms are chosen or not, The foundation
for the development of such a policy will be laid in the procurement practices for the
proposed project (para. 4.22 et seq.).
III. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR POLICY
3.01        Until 1990, the former CSFR's operational and govermmental TC functions
were combined in one body which was itself part of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications. As was usual in CEE, the law under which the sector operated gave sole
authority to build and operate public TC networks to the Ministry.
3.02        In early 1990, initial steps were taken to reform the sector, ostensibly in line
with evolving European practice as expressed in the EC "Green Paper" of 1987.
Accordingly, policy/regulatory authority was distinguished from operational responsibility,
with the former vested in a new Federal Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (FMPT)
and the latter in the two Post and Telecommunications enterprises for the Czech and Slovak
republics, "Sprava Post a Telekomunikaci (SPT-Prague and SPT-Bratislava). At the same
time, a Federal Government Resolution was passed setting out the "Principles of the State's
P¶IT Policy". These actions were taken administratively under powers given to the FMPT
under the then-existing law (Act No. l10 of 1964).
3.03        At the same time work was begun on: (a) drafting a new TC law; (b)
reorganizing the SPTs; (c) further defiming the government's regulatory/policy
responsibilides vis a vis the SPTs' operational responsibilities; and (d) allocating
governmental authionty over the sector between the Federal and Republic levels. As of mid
1993, after more than two years of effort, the following progress has been made on these
four tasks:
3.04        Recent TC legisation. On the basis of the Federal Govermment's resolution
on PTT policy, a new law was prepared by the FMPT, approved by the Cabinet, submitted
to the Parliament, and passed in March, 1992. The new Federal law, 150/1992, took the
form of an amendment to the TC law of 1964. In line with the emerging pattern in CEE
(e.g., Poland's new law and the new law in Hungary), the law is permissive in form, giving
broad powers and discretion to the Government (to be exercised through the Ministry). It
takes the essential steps of: (a) ending the mandatory monopoly of the State (and its agent,



- 11 -
SPT Telecom) and permitting the licensing of other operators; and (b) distinguishes
regulatory authority from operations of the TC network.
3.05        The new Government of the Czech Republic has adopted a general law which
will maintain the existing legal environment until new Republican legislation can be
implemented. This means that the existing Federal law for telecommunications will continue
in force until a new Republican law is enacted. Simultaneously, a new regulatory agency is
being organized along the lines recommended by the PA consltants (para 3.15). This
recommendaton calls for a Director General for Telecommunications, who would preside
over a semi-auitonomous government agency (see Annex 16).
3.06       1t., law defines the "United Telecommunications Network" (UTN) as being,
in effect, the PSTN. Any person (human or juridical) who operates any part of the UTN
must have a valid license to do so from the MTC. This includes SPT Telecom. "Private"
networks of the railroads, electric power system, Ministry of the Interior, military, etc., do
not have licenses now and can continue to operate without licenses so long as they are not
part of the UTN, i.e. if they provide service only for their own use. Networks within a
single premise are similarly not required to obiain licenses.
3.07        In general, the law provides only the bare skeleton of sectoral authority and to
date, the Government's sectoral policy has been expressed only in the most general terms
(mainly in the policy resolution mentioned in para. 3.02). The (meat, sinews, blood and skdn)
of TC sector policy, structure and regulation still remain to be established by the detailed
decisions of the GOCR and the MOE after the law takes effect. The law itself provides
relatively little policy guidance or criteria for decision making, but it is compatible with a
wide variety of different policies. For instance, the law specifies who must obtain a license,
but it gives no guidance as to what these licenses should contain. In fact, the content of
licenses for all operators (SPT Telecom and non-SPT Telecom alike) is one of the most
important tools for setting and implementng policy.
3.08        A major program of studies (para. 3.15) has been arranged, and is being
financed by the EC and the US Government (through the PHARE and the USTDP
respectively). The immediate "client" for these is the GOCR and specifically, the MOE.
These studies have been coordinated and overseen by a steering committee consisting of the
senior officials of all major concerned institutions, including SPT Telecom, CRc, MOE, and
the Ministry of Finance. While the Bank does not have a rigid view as to what constitites
the "correct" policy and regulatory framework, it strongly believes that a clear, rational,
orderly system which addresses the main issues is required. It is in close contact with the
steering committee and with the PHARE and USTDP and is confident that this process will
lead to policy and regulatory recommendations which are in the mainstram of Euopean
practice and which the Bank will find satisfactory.
3.09        Internal reorganization of SPT Telecom. Separation of TC operations from
Posts within SPT Telecom was accomplished January 1, 1993. Joint telecommunications and
postal services in small villages continue to be regulated by contracts between SPT Telecom
and the Post. SPT Telecom is aggressively moving middle level management staff into
international seminars and training courses to develop internal business and corporate strategy



- 12 -
capabilities. The Institutional Development Program associated with the Project will assist
SPT Telecom in upgrading all aspects of its evolution into a commercially oriented public
utility.
3.10        There is a serious lack of financial expertise in SPT Telecom. There are, of
course, "finance" or "economic" departments. But these are primarily bookkeeping or
accounting departments, oriented to the old system in which their function was monitonng
and control vis-a-vis the cental planning commission. In a modem TC business, accounting
and finance have a much more complex and critical role involving analyzing performance,
setting strategy, choosing investments, etc. The Bank has worked intensively with the
fnance personnel in SPT Telecom during project preparation (including an intensive, eight-
day course for all CEE which CRc staff also attended). The Bank, in cooperation with the
EIB, will take the lead on further developing financial capability and introducing modem
accounting systems (as their part of the Institutional Development Program jointly agreed
with SPT Telecom, the EIB and the EBRD, para 4.11 - 4.12).
3.11        Role of CRc vis-a-vis SPT Telecom. In most countries an organzational
division is made between "broadcasting" (non-addressed, one-way transmission of signals to
a general area) and "telecommnications" (i.e., addressed, point-to-point transport of
signals, including TV, radio, telephone, data, etc.). The former are normally controlled by
broadcasters and the latter by the national telecommunications company. The former activity
(by its nature) always uses the airwaves, but the latter should be free to use whatever
techniques (coaxial cable, optical fiber, terrestrial microwaves, satellite, etc.) are
economically and technically appropriate. Under this arrangement, broadcasters come to the
TC company to transport their signals around the county like any other customLer for this
service. In the Czech Republic, however, SPT Telecom constructs and operau-. the closed
media portions of the TC network (e.g., symmetrical and co-axial cable, optical fiber) but
goes to the CRc whenever it wants to use microwave transmission for a given link. In the
past, this was not a grave problem as the CRc and SPT Telecom were closely related and
operated under the same tight ministerial control. Now, however, the CRc is seeking to
become an independent long-distance TC operator in competition with SPT Telecom.
3.12        This could create a conflict of interest which, if not properly handled could
distort investments by both SPT Telecom and the CRc. To prevent this, the proposed project
will mandate that microwave equipment purchased with Bank funds will remain the property
of SPT Telecom and that any lease or management contract with CRc covering this
equipment must be approved by the Bank (para. 7.01).
3.13        Separation of Operations from Government Responsibility. There is a
consensus at the level of general principle that the Ministry should withdraw from the
business and operational activities of SPT Telecom and confine itself to "policy and
regulatory matters". In past years, the former FMPT had attempted to follow this guideline,
stepping back from routine management and leaving the two SPTs to function with
substantial independence in day-to-day operations.
3.14        As the operational activities of the responsible Ministry continue to decline,
regulatory activities should increase. This does appear to be happening, but intermittendy



- 13 -
and without clear direction. Pardy this results from the lack of an agreed, well defmed
policy on such basic issues as sector structure, ownership, division of powers etc.
However, it is also the case that responsibilities, resources, staff and authority have not yet
been well defined and allocated within the Minstry. The MOE will need to develop more
expertise on the central issues which will dominate its regulatory function in coming years:
(i) regulating a dominant, increasingly independent and commercially oriented TC monopoly;
and (ii) encouraging competitive forces while chaneling them in directions which are
constructive and valuable. In the near term, these factors are unlikely to affect the viability
of the proposed project. In the longer term, however, the health and growth of the sector
will depend on the nature and quality of regulation as much as on the telecom management
itself.
3.15        The MOE is aware of the urgency of the regulatory tasks facing it, and has
chosen to utilize both USTDP and PHARE gant funds to meet the problem. PHARE has
allocated approximately 1.2 million ECUs for a broad range of technical assistance activities,
primarily to the former FMPT. The defmition and organization of this program has been
going un for a year. The first major element of this program is a study of regulatory policy,
rules, systems, etc. A well-respected TC consultant fim was chosen as the main contractor
and spelled out a detailed work program. In parallel, the USTDP financed a major law firm
to draw up proposals for detailed regulatory mechanissms. The PHARE financed work done
by the PA Consulting Group was completed in late 1992; an abstract of its findings is given
in Annex 16. Furthermore, PHARE agreed to extend PA's contract to help implement the
recommendations and to assist MOE and SPT Telecom in the organizational changes that will
be required foliowing separation of the two new republics.
3.16        Tariff policy. The MOE has responsibility for making detailed tariff
proposals but final authority for setting TC tariffs (as with all other public utlity pnces) rests
with the Ministry of Finance. The Finance Ministry has a mandate to apply macro-economic
considerations and has little micro-economic sectoral expertise. Clearly, the Government has
to take into account a number of factors: (a) macroeconomic stability; (b) revenues to the
Government; (c) protecting customers from monopolistic overcharging; (d) assuring enough
revenues to the company to finance investment (including extension to rural high-cost areas);
(e) microeconomic incentives to the company to improve efficiency; and (f) incentives to
customers to realign their TC usage with the structure of costs, etc. Some of these interests
conflict-often in complex ways. Some push in the direction of higher tariffs, some in the
direction of lower tariffs; some militate fcr one rate structure, and some for another.
3.17        In the long run, micro-economic price regulation and other regulatory
authority should be put into the hands of the relevant expert sectoral body, which should be
mandated to give micro-economic consideratioxis the predominant weight in direct, sector-
specific tariff decisions. As of now, however, the GOCR considers that control over
inflation is such an important and overriding concern that all price authority must remam in a
single location-the MOF. This being the case, the project wil emphasize development of a
workable division of responsibility between MOE and MOF and development of a workable
pricing policy to be adhered to by the MOF as well as by the MOE (para 5.27 - 5.31).
4



- 14-
3.18        Regardless of the tariff and regulatory scheme chosen, STP Telecom should be
mandated and permitted to act as an autonomous economic/financial entetprise subject to the
same rules as other economic enterprises. Within general tariff guidelines, it should be free
to set tariffs in response to market signals and business considerations. It should pay the
same rate of taxes as others.1 It should make its own investment decisions and be required
to raise its own finacing. If the Government chooses to leave dividends with the company
to help finance investment, this should be reflected in the value of the Government's holding
and dividends paid at a later date. Such a system would not only put SPT Telecom on the
track towards becoming an efficient economic entity, but would also set the scene for the
introduction of competition and for private investment in SPT Telecom at such time as the
Govermment decides to move ahead with this agenda. The covenants and action plan
associated with the project are thus designed to move SPT Telecom in this direction.
IV. THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Development Plans
4.01        Development Objectives. The Government of the former CSFR was aware of
the critical imporance of TC for overall economic transformation and development. To
articulate its vision, it adopted a policy resolution setting forth the principles of
communication policy (para 3.02). This, however, was a ten-year progam based on very
wide-ranging, long-term trends. Although this long-term prospectus provides a useful
framework for planning, it must be supplemented by a concrete strategy for achieving the
stated goals that also takes into account the new situation created by the separation of the
Czech and Slovak Republics. The details of such near/middle term strategies have been the
subject of a complex dialogue involving SPT Telecom, the former Federal Govemnment, the
current Republican Government, multilateral banks, expert consultants, and several foreign
TCOs. The result was the three-year development program which forms the basis for the
proposed project.
4.02        Background. During the summet of 1990, Bank staff worked with CSFR
authorities to frame the initial, development strategy for the sector, which consisted of the
following: (a) to immediately offer a tender for a joint venture for cellular phone service
and for a basic packet-switched data network; (b) to use the franchise fees obtained from the
cellular tender to finance major studies on network development strategy and to do initial
investment in the most urgent areas (e.g., on the PraguelBratislava corridor); (c) to begin
preparation of the basic changes in law, regulation and policy which are necessary; (d) to put
Eventualiy, the government should receive a dividend on its equity in the SPT Telecom in addition to
taxes. During the coming period when high rates of investment are needed, however, this dividlend
should be foregone-just as a private investor wold forego dividends during a period of rapid capit
build-up.



- 15 -
SPT Telecom's procurement procedures on a more competitive basis; (e) to begin seeking
strategic partners for core network development; and (f) to draw up an agenda of the most
urgent technk.al assistance items for the above activities.
4.03        Strategy. The core of the near term strategy is to begin the digitalization of
the network by constmcting a Digital Overlay Network (DON) designed to: (a) rapidly
improve the long distance and international networks; (b) quickly provide modem service to
large scale (especially business) customers--without which they cannot hope to compete in the
world market; (c) create a modem digital "backbone" network which will form the basis for
future national network development; and (d) generate substantial profits to fnance expansion
and modernization of the main national network.
4.04        Agreement on this strategy was reached with the FMPT and the SPTs in the
spring of 1991. Following this, two major studies were commissioned to provide detailed
alternative designs for the digitalization plan and the DON. These studies (costing about
$2.0 million) were undertaken by Bell Atlantic/US West of the USA and DETECON of
Germany. Bank staff worked closely with CSFR authorities tiroughout this process:
designing, monitoring and evaluating the studies. They were completed in late summer,
1991. Although different in some respects, both confirmed the SPT's development strategies
and provided valuable data and strategic insights and the decision was made to attempt to
combine the best of both studies. British Telecom (BT) was commissioned to assist in
evaluating and combining the best elements of both into a single plan. By the end of 1991,
the BT exercise was complete. This, plus the two previous studies, provided the basis for
SPT Telecom's development proposal over the next four years. On the basis of this
proposal, and of the extensive dialogue behind it, a joint IBRDIEIB/EBRD appraisal mission
visited CSFR in February 1991. The findings of that mission resulted in the agreed program
which is reflected in this SAR.
B. Project Description and Implementation
4.05        Design. The project consists of a Three-Year Development Program. It has
been conceived and designed as a national telecommunications development program with
consistent technical standards, dimensioning and optimization, and where the inter-worlkng,
interfacing, traffic routing, tarifring and operational characteristics are harmonized.
4.06        Progrm Description: The Development Program consists of three main
parts:
(a)   A physical investment program;
(b) Institutional and policy improvements to accelerate SPT Telecom's
transformation into a modem, commercially oriented public utility; and



- 16-
(c)   Technical assistance and training to support the above activities.
4.07        In addition, the program envisages support to the GOCR from other sources
(especially PHARE and USTDP) for the creation and strengthening of regulatury and policy
capabflity (para. 3.15). This support will be closely monitored by the Bank.
4.08        The Physical Investment Program. The purpose of the program is to begin
the process of modenizing, digitalizing, and txpanding the TC network. The first major
step of this process constitutes the core of the program and would include construction of an
international and inter-urban Digital Overlay Network (DON), plus complementary local
digital network development. The DON and related developmen: has been designed to: (a)
telieve the most vital and congested portions of the national TC system; (b) to rapidly
provide modern TC services to the business community; and (c) to build a sound backbone
network to serve as the foundation for the future modernization, digitaliation and expansion
of the entire TC network in the Czech Republic.
4.09        The three-year investment program (1993-1995) would result in the installation
of the following elements:
A.   A long distance digital overlay network (DON) consisting of:
(i)   A combined international and transit exchange (14,200 trunks) and
tnsmission facilities;
(ii)  Transit exchanges with a total of 32,000 tmnks; and
(iii) A long distance transmission network with 3,190 km fiber optic cables and
also including multiplex equipment.
B.   Local network development consisting of:
(i)   Provision and installation of 154,000 lines of switching capacity (analog type)
mainly for expansion of existig analog exchanges;
(ii)  Provision and insallation of 384,000 lines of switching capacity
(Digital SPC type) of which 125,000 lines would be used for replacement of
worn-out and obsolete equipment. During the project period some 310,000
new subscribers would be connected, including both digital and analog
equipment. Of the nevt digital subscribers about 65,000 would be high traffic
volume business customers. Another 55,000 analog business subscribers
would migrate to the new digital network; and
(iii) Expansion of the associated local network and subscriber plant would include
instalation of about 1,000 kan of optical-fiber cables (with an average of 16



- 17-
fibers per cable) and some 1,900,000 Ikn-pairs of copper cables and subscriber
equipment.
The program also provides for network managemen ceners, measuring and testing
instuments, taining equipment, software tools and miscellaneous equipment.
4.10        Physical investment data for the program are given in Annex 5.
4.11          snal Development Program (IDP) and Technical Assistance (TA)
Program Objective and Scope: The main objective of the IDP is to assist SPT Telecom in
the resuctring process. This would involve: (a) the transition fr3m analog to digital
systems and the itroduction of modern technology; (b) the transformation of thae operating
entity from a state owned and run bureaucracy in a centrally planned system into a
commercial enterprise operating in a market economy; (c) the introduction of competiton
and the reduction of the basic telephone monopoly; and (d) the eventual privadzation and
uansformation of SPT Telecom into a joint stock company. To summarize, the IDP and
related TA would support the transformation of SPT Telecom from a government agency into
an idependent and autonomous company ran in a commercial fashion. The IDP would
mclude direct technical assistance for the execution of the Program and the Development
Plan as well as for the overall institutional development of SPT Telecom.
4.12        The IDP would be executed through technical assistance (TA) and traig for
SPT Telecom experts that would focus on the design, development and implementation
aects of management systems, on human resources development, on the transfer of
technology and on commercialization, all of which would include the transfer of know-how
and hands-on skills through in-house trinig. In-house training would consist of both on-
the-job training and classroom lecturing, and could include study visits abroad. The IDP
would include six main components:
-     Corporate Strategy, Service Planning and Organizational Development
-     Human Resource Management and Development
-     Accounting and Finance
-     Auditing
-     Technical Expertise
-     Project Implementation
The Bank, EIB, and EBRD would all participate in the organizing and monitoring of all of
tbese wmponents, but the primary responsibilities would be divided up among them. In this
arrangement, the Bank, together with the EIB, would have the main responsibility for
organizing, supporting and monitoring the activities associated with the Accouting and
Fimance and the Auditing components.
4.13        Progra  Implementaon Unit. The IDP would support the Progam
implementation Unit (POM) in SPT Telecom with 70 person-months TA. The responsibilities
of the P1IU would be the coordination and supervision of the execution of the entire program.



- 18 -
The main responsibilities would include: (a) coordination of program and project preparation
and implementation (planning, procurement activities, installation and acceptance testing,
synchronization of different activities, interfacing with foreign suppliers, etc.); (b)
coordination of different technical assistance and training activities; and (c) liaison with and
reporting to the three banks. The total support of foreign experts for the IDP would be about
322 person-months (including the person-months for the PIU).
4.14        Detailed Terms of Reference for each IDP component are given in ALnnex 6,
together with the estimated cost of foreign consultants. The details of IDP and related TA
were confirmed during negotiations.
4.15        Technical Assistance and Training: Besides the IDP and related TA, SPT
Telecom will be the beneficiary and recipient of an array of other TA and Training
assistance. A preliminary list of these includes:
-     US Trade Development Program Assistance;
-     UNDP Project executed by International Telecom. Union;
-     PHARE Program Assistance;
-     Bilateral TA from European TC Administrations, EC assistance,
etc.
4.16        Additionally, SPT Telecom has mapped out its own training and technical
assistance requirements, including the upgrading and modernizing of its training facilities.
This would entail resources for training at a cost of 31,500 person-days (US$33.4 million).
The cost has been allocated equally between local and foreign currency. Details of training
and TA requirements are found in Annex 7. These costs are based on estimated late 1992
prices for equipment and services.
4.17        Program Cost: Total program cost is estimated at Kcs. 25.4 billion
(US$891.5 million) with a foreign exchange component of Kcs. 8.6 billion (US$300 million).
These costs are based on estimated late 1992 prices for equipment, materials, services and
civil works. Cost details are given in Annex 8 and summaized in Table 4.1.



- 19-
Table 4.1: CZECH REPUBLIC 3-YEAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM
TOTAL PROGRAM COST
(US$ Million)
ITEM                          Local         Foreign      Total
LID Network
Switching                                        2.8          11.0        13.8
Transmission                                    29.7          39.2        68.9
Local Networks
Switching                                       69.4         113.5        182.9
Network'                                       381.7          61.5       443.2
TA and Traing                                     14.6          13.5        28.1
Othef                                             37.5          31.9        69.4
Base Cost                                        535.8         270.5       806.3
Contingency                                     55.7          29.5        85.2
Totdal                                           591.5         300.0       891.5
"Local line network3 includes local optical cables and subscriber multiplexing.
2 Other- includes operWational suppot system, instruments, tools, and misclanous.
4.18        Contingencies. Physical confingencies are based on 5% for local and foreign
equipment, and 10% for civil works and local and foreign services. Price contingencies are
based on foreign cost increases of 3.8% in 1993, 1.9% in 1994 and 2.7% in 1995.
4.19        Least Cost Solution. The dimensioning and financing of various elements in
the system are based on generally accepted engineering practices for selection of techniques
and equipment, after study of feasible alteratves supported by foreign consultants. Project
plannmig of the overlay digital network is based upon the least cost solution with strategies
which are satisfactory. The program includes allowance for an amount of local network
investmen which is larger than optimal but which derives from previous contractual
agreements with suppliers and bi-lateral fnancing authorities. The remainder of the program
has been designed to be optimal, taking into account these previous commitments. The
agreed investment for the development program represents the least cost ^olution for
providing the service level improvements planned with the constraints imposed by the
existg configuration and technology of the telecommunications network. The agreed pace
of replacement of the obsolete and worn out equipment and materials is necessary in order to
achieve the service quality improvement required during the program period.



- 20 -
4.20        Flnneng: The proposed sources of financing for the development program
are shown in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION)
US$ MUlion
Source                           Loca           Foreip           Total
IBRD                             --             80             80
EIB                              --             80             80
EBRD                                            80             80
Export credits                   -              60.0           60.0
SPr Telecom                    591.5            -             591.5
TOTAL                          591.5           300.0          891.5
4.21        The estmated program cose and the financing arrangements were agreed
during negotiatons. Total program cost estimates are given in Annex 8.
4.22        Procauremet: Procurement arrangemens for SPT Telecom are summarized
in Table 4.3. The Bank loan would finance $80.0 million for equipment, materials and
associated services, of which $57.9 million would be procured through Internatonal
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's pro ent guidelines.
Equipment, supplies and materials have been grouped into ten main biddmg packages. This
has been done to attract bidders, enhance competition and benefit from economies of scale in
bid price.
4.23        There are several exceptions to the ICB requirement. Interatonal shopping
based on price quotations from at least three suppliers, and from at least two eligible source
countries, would be used for those equipment packages with an estmated value below
US$300,000, and not exceedig an aggregate of US$11.1 million. Procurement of goods
which are of proprietary nature, which require starization with existng equipment, or
for which early delivery is crucial for exedited program execution, would be carried out
through direct contracdng (amount not to exceed US$2.0 million). Contracts for consultant
services and training being financed by the Bank, totallmg US$ 9.0 million, would be
awarded, subject to the Bank's prior review, according to Bank guidelines for use of
consultants. Such review would include the letters of invitation, TOR's, proposed short list,
draft contract etc., in accordance with said guidelines. During negotiations, the procurement
arrangements were confirmed.



- 21 -
4.24           Psfitcpaon by Czech suppliers in the bidding is expected to be lnt   since
equipment and supplies to be procured under the loan are geneally not yet manufactured in
the Czech Republic. In the evauation and comprison of bids for equipment to be procued
through ICB, domestic m a            s, offering domestically manufa     goods having at
least 20%  value added, would be g            a margin of preference of 15%  or the relevant
duty, whichever is lower.
Table 4.3: Telecommunications Project
Procurement Arrangements (US$Milion)'
ICB PROCUREMENT                     OTHER PROCUREMNT
IMMD    B       EBRD          MMRD    EI    OERD    SPTTelecom         TOTAL
FOR     LOC    (million
___________________                                    ~~~~US$) -
:TM
Buildings                                                                            16.8     16.8
Transit Switches     -        -        -            -       -        -        3.3   12.7      16.0
Local Switches        -       -       34.9          -      49.0      -       21.9   65.7    171.5
Long Distance         18.5    -       10.0          -       -        -       31.2   19.7      79.4
Optcal Fiber Cables                                                                          (18.5)
Local Optical         -       7.9      3.9          -       -        -        3.6   15.6      31.0
Fiber Cables
Copper Cables        28.4    -        26.8          -       -        -       -    431.4    486.6
(28.4)
Network Operation     -      12.5      -                    -        -        -      3.1      15.6
Facilities (OSS)
TAandTrainmg          -       -        -            9.03    5.3      2.1      -      11.7     28.1
(9.0)
Insments, tools       11.0    -        -            10.04    2.0     -        -       3.3     26.3
(21.0)
Miscaneous'           -       -        -             3.1'   3.3      2.3      -      11.5     20.2
(3.1)
TOTAL                57.9   20.4    75.6            22.1   59.6      4.4    60.0  591.5    891.5
(80.0)
4 iguwm tprenesis indice amounts to be fne under the proposed loan
Includss Contdgencies
2      hlubldes hnternational shoppig, local prmn procedures, negodated conracts direct purchas, and
reserved purchase.
3      I accordance with World Bank guidenes for use of consults (August 1981).
4      The aggregate amount for international shopping wil be $11.1 mMion and for direct contacting $2.0
million.
5      Includes office equipment Cs, faxes) etc.



- 22 -
4.25        All Bank-financed bid packges for goods estnated to cost US$1.0 million
equivalent and above would be subject to the Back's prior review of procurement
documentation. It is estimated that the Bank's prior review of goods procent
documentation would cover about 80% of the total estimated value of contracts. The balance
of Bank-fumaced contracts would be subject to the Bank's review of the contract award.
Recent relaxation of Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Exports (COCOM) regulations,
effective August 1, 1991, would practically eliminate restrictions on most of the equipment to
be purchased with the Bank loan. Nevertheless, the Bank would continue to review bid
documents prior to issuance for any possible residual problems.
4.26        Procurement of equipment finaned by EIB and EBRD would be in accordance
with their respective regulations. Locally produced goods would be contracted according to
usual SPT Telecom nd telecommunications industry practice through local competitive
bidding, direct purchase and negotiated prices as appropriate, subject to GOCR regulations.
4.27        To assist SPT Telecom and ensure timely implementation, some contracts
combiing supply of goods and installation are envisaged (e.g., long-distance fiber optic
routes and some key local networks). Such contracts, procured under ICB procedures,
would be paid for through the Bank loans.
4.28        Disbursement. Disbursement from the proceeds of the proposed loan would
be made for:
(a)   100% of: (i) foreign expenditures of direcdy imported goods; (ii)
installation services; (iii) local ex-factory cost of goods manufactured in
the Czech Republic; and (iv) 85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(b) 100% of total expenditures for consultant's services.
Disbursement requests would be required to be fully documented, except for those
expenditures for contracts valued below US$150,000, which could be submitted on the basis
of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). In this case, supporting documentation would
be retained by SPT Telecom for at least one year (after receipt by the Bank of the audit
report for the period during which the last disbursement was made) and would be made
available to auditors and Bank supervision missions upon request. In order to facilitate
project implementation, a special account in the amount of US$3.0 million equivalent
representing about four months of average expenditures would be established and maintained
by the borrower. The estimated disbursement schedule for the project is shown in Annex 9.
The loan closing date would be June 30, 1998.
4.29        Project Implementation. SPT Telecom would be responsible for overall
project implementation, since it has sufficient experience in the execution of similar works,
albeit in analog technology. SPT Telecom's investment organization would be charged with
the responsibility of executing their part of the investment by interacting with the foreign



- 23 -
suppliers under overall coordination of the MOE. SPT Telecom's organization would also be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the systems after implementaton is
completed. SPT Telecom has created a Programn Implementation Unit (PIU) reporting to the
Director General which would be responsible for overall coordination and execution of the
project. It would also carry out coordination, support and direct supervision of works at the
locations where the digital t.ansit, local exchanges and tansmission systems would be
installed. The supplier would be responsible for the installation and commissioning of the
exchanges and training of local staff. The PIU would contain sufficient experienced
personnel to execute its mandate, and would be supported by five man-years of foreign
expertise as part of the IDP's technical assistance program, in order to ensure smooth
program implementation. Suppliers would be asked to contract for maintenance supervision
for one year in order to assist SPT Telecom in handling the complex new systems and the
new technology. During negotiations, the creation of the PIU was confirmed. The proposed
implementation schedule is given in Annex 10.
4.30        SPT Telecom has already appointed a procurement coordinator, who would be
incorporated into the PIU, and who would coordinate the work of preparation of bid
documents, bid evaluation and contract signature. The three banks are supporting the group
with foreign expertise for the early preparation of technical specifications for digital
switching (EEB), optical transmission equipment (EBRD), and microwave equipment (World
Bank).
4.31        SPT Telecom has decided to rely more on outside contractors and complex
subproject deliveries in the implementation of the development program than it has in the
past. The eventual aim is to create and equip a special expert unit within SPT Telecom
which would help negotiate, contract and supervise the implementation of such contracts in
the future, including final acceptance. This unit will be supported by an MIS with an in-built
finance and time control function. SPT Telecom's plans for more aggressive development
and elimination of state support would necessitate more efficient and cost conscious methods
to ensure investment efficacy. In any case, the more complex installations and new
technology would require special assistance and supervision by contractors and suppliers. As
the digital overlay network is an important element of the whole system, one year of
supervision of maintenance would be requested from and contracted with the successful
bidders.
4.32        Performance Indicators. An Action Plan consisting of performance
indicators and target values (see Amex 11), plus a mechanism for monitoring the execution
of the project in reladon to the agreed targets was agreed during negotiations together with
targets for each indicator for the program in each year. More specifically, agreement was
reached on the following points: (a) SPT Telecom monitoring of the agreed indicators, and
semi-annual reporting to the Banks of actual vs. target performances: (b) discussions, once a
year, between SPT Telecom and the Banks of any shortfalls, reasons for them and remedies;
(c) agreement following this discussion will be reached between the Banks and SPI Telecom
on adjustment of performance targets for the following year(s). Examples of key
performance indicators are:



- 24 -
Table 4.4 Czech Republic: Performance Indicators
1991       1995
(actual)  (projected)
Network Development Indicators
connected DEL's (lines) x 1,000    1,707      2,205
exchange capacity (lines) x 1,000  1,892      2,518
DELs per 1,000 inhabins             16.6       22.2
Quality of senice Indicators
faultsllOO DELs/month               5.5        4.5
effectve completion rate           40%         55%
Efficency indicators
employees per 1,000 DEL             14.7       11.3
V. FINANCLAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
5.01        The former SPT-Prague's accountimg system was not primarly designed to
provide management with relevant and reliable accountng informataon, but rather to furish
the informaton needed by the State Planning Commission for its overall planning.
Consequently, the quality of the information on which management decisions, as well as
assessments of long-term profitability are based, is not satsfactory.
5.02        It is, therefore, difficult to estimate to what degree the financial statemnts of
SPT-Prague reflect the economic reality of the company. The sitaion is aggravated by the
fact that separate accounts for the postal and telecom services within SPF-Prague were not
implemened until Januay 1, 1992.
5.03        In addition to the weaknesses of the accounting system it is important to note
that before 1989, neither SPT Prague's tariffs nor its input prices were detrmined by
markets; instead they were set by the cental planners. Seen from a market economy
viewpoint, the pre-1989 figures showing revenues, operaing expenses, assets, etc. are
distorted. Any analysis of past financial sttements will therefore have its limitations.



- 25 -
5.04        On Jan. 1, 1993, SPT-Prafe (Sprava Post a TelekomnMikaci Praba) was split
into two state enterprises: SPT Telecom s.p. and CP (Ceska Posta). SPT Telecom is the
direct descendent of SPT-P ue's TC division. Seen from an organizational point of view,
this has caused only small changes.
5.05        The next step in the re-strucing of the TC-secor is to privatize SPI
Telecom. This privatization, in accordance with the Govemment Resolution No. 642 of
November 18, 1992, will be a voucher privatization of a minority part of the company,
followed by a new share issue aimed at foreign interests. The voucbher privatization is due to
start in the hird quarter of this year and will probably be completed by April/May 1994. It
is uncertain when the second phase can be intiated. Expenence from similar pnvatizations in
other counties shows that a privatization process that includes creation of a regulatory
system always takes longer than expected. Together with the fact that the financial
consequences of having a strategic investor are still not known, this means that SPT
Telecom's privatization plans could not be taken into consideration when the projections were
made.
5.06        The conclusion that must be drawn from the above is that the Financial
Department of SPT Telecom must be stengthned in all areas, i.e. budgeting, finance,
tariffs, and accounting. Moreover, because the company has difficulties in recruiting and
keeping experienced staff, improved routines must be established for tiing, career
planing, salary levels, bonuses and other financial incentives. The IDP provides for SPT
Telecom to obtain expert assistane to improve its systems and routines in each one of these
areas.
B. Past Performance
5.07        The Financial Statements for telecom operations of SPT-Prague for the five
years 1988 through 1992 are shown in Annex 12. These statements have been assembled
through close cooperation between the financial management and accounting stae from SPT-
Prague and the World Bank. A summary of the most important enties and key ratios is
given in Table 5.1.



- 26 -
Table 5.1: Past Financial Performance 1988-1992
(Current Prices - Kcs Millions)
SPT-Prapue
1988     1989        1990         1991       1992
Consumer Price Index         100.9    102.2        112.8       181.8      200.2
Rate of return on
net fixed assets          33.3%     33.5%       35.8%       23.3%       18.5%
(before tax)
Operating revenue            8,742     9,075      10,592      11,491     12,893
Net Operating Income         4,900     5,131       5,809       3,887      3,555
Net income                    610       605        1,057       1,650      1,480
Operating Ratio             43.9%    43.5%        45.2%       66.2%      72.4%
Opeting Ratio
(mcluding profit tax)     93.0%     93.3%       89.1%       83.7%       86.5%
Net internal cash generation
as % of investment        98.7%     97.1%       92.0%       77.9%       72.0%
Operating Revenue/DEL (US$)    416      395         371         242         259
Operating Expenses/DEL (US$)   183      172         168          160        187
Operating Income/DEL (US$)    233       223         203          82          71
Employees/1000 DEL            16.5      15.9        15.3        14.7       13.7
'Excludn c0=UC*in Sff
5.08        During most of the past five yeas, the SPT-Page's profits were very high.
For example, during the two-year period 1988-90, the rate of return on net fixed asset
amounted to 33 - 34%, and operating ratios were low, at 44-45% (before tax in both cases).
The rate of inflation during this period was negligible.
5.09        However, SPT-generated profits were not priarily used for developing the
TC sector. The major portion of the TC surplus was used to subsidize postal services and to
otherwise finance the public sector, while exansion of new DELs was restricted to 3 - 4%
per year, far less than the demonstated demand.



- 27 -
5.10        During the period 1990-92, SPTPrague was not allowed to raise taffs even
though profits were subsally reduced due to cost increases caused by an inflation over
this period of 80%. In 1990, the nominal rate of return on net fixed assets was stll high,
but a high rate of inflaton reduced the rates in real terns. The rsult was, however, still
acceptable. In 1991 and 1992, the nomial rates of ret  on net fixed assets (before taxes)
dropped to 23.3% and 1S.5% respectively, and inflation for this two year period was
approximately 75%, thus resulting in an unacceptably low level of real profitability.
5.11        The operating rados (excluding taxes) for the period 1988-90 were good (44 -
45%), but when the extremely high corporate incme taxe is included, the ratios were 93%.
In June 1989, the 1970 reguladons on economic planning were relaxed, thus reducing SPI-
Prague's corporate income tax to 55%. This tax change came into effect in 1991. Even so,
the operating ratio (including taxes) did not improve, since the benefits of the tax reduction
were outweighed by cost increases due to inflation.
5.12        The prportion of investmnents covered by intermally generated funds
amounted to 98.7% in 1988. To inersan why this flgure is so high, it must be
remembered that the size of investmnts was adjusted to meet available cash. This consisted
of the small amount of profit that was left after taxes, as well as of the artificially low
depreciations (4% depreciation rate). External financing was negligible.
5.13        During the period 1988 to 1992, the operatng revenue per DEL increased
from Kcs 5,967 to 7,372. These figures do not, however, reflect the fact that during the
same period inflation was almost 100%, which means that in real terms the operafting
revenues per DEL actually decreased from Kcs 5,967 to 3,740, i.e. by 39%. This trend can
also be seen in the fact that the operating revenue per DEL decreased from US$ 416 to 259,
i.e. by 36%. Our projections indicate that these levels are far too low to sustain the 1993 -
1995 investment program (see paras. 5.19 and 5.29).
5.14         Performance measured as the number of employees per 1000 DEL improved
slightly. The present level, however, is sdll far too high. Even though the attained level of
13.7 employees for 1000 DEL seems good in comparison to other Cental and Eastern
European countries (see Annex 13), the figures are not comparable because staff figures are
exclusive of construction personnel. SPT-Prague's contuction personnel are employed by
subsidiary companies and are therefore not formally included in the staff numbers of SPT
Telecom. If the employees m these companies were included in the staff figures of the
company then the number of employees per 1000 DELs would icrease to approximately 17-
18, thereby more closely approaching the ratio in other Cental and Eastern  uopean
Countries. These factors, together with the long waiting Lists and poor accessibility to the
network, mean that overall performance has not been good.
2     The effecdve income tax for the two year peiod 198M-89 was 88%. Part of tbs should be seen as a
*dividcnd" paid to the state in its capacity as the sole owner.



- 28 -
C. Projected Facial Performance
5.15       The Projected Financial Staments for the period 1993 - 1996, which have
been prepared in close consultadon with SPT Telecom, are attached as Anex 12. The
following table summauizes these projections.
Table 5.2: Projected Financial Performance 1993-1996
(Constant January 1993 Prices - Kcs Millions)
SIr Telecom
1993     1994        1995        1996
Rate of return on
net fixed asse            24.2%    27.9%       26.3%       26.2%
(before tax)
Operaing revenue           15,552    18,884     20,877      22,863
Net Operatng Income         5,402    7,126       7,517       8,228
Net income                  2,797    3,657       3,805       4,136
Operating katio            65.3%     62.3%      64.0%       64.0%
Operatng Ratio
(including profit tax)    80.0%    78.1%       78.9%       77.8%
Net itenad cash generation
as % of investnent        58.1%    67.1%       95.0%       98.0%
Debt Service Coverage        10.0      8.6         8.1         8.
Operting Revenue/DEL (US$)   288       318         321        321
Operating Expenses/DEL(US$)    188     198         206        205
Operaing Income/DEL (US$)    100       120         116         115
Employees/1000 DEL           12.7      12.0       11.3        10.3



- 29 -
5.16        The prcjections are based on a number of assumptions, wbich are also
described in detail in Annex 12. The most important of these is the asumption that a 25%
tariff increae will be ilemented on July 1st, 1993 and that tariffs thereafter will be tied to
the rate of infladon. This incae is a necessary first adjustment of the tariffs, expressed in
rea terms, to a level susinable with the size of the investment program. Sensitivity
analyses show that changes in the rate of implementation would greatly affect the level of
self-financing. This possibility, combined with insfcient information about price-elasticity,
could mean that further adjustments of this magnitude might be necessary from April 1, 1994
(see para. 5.19 and 5.30).
5.17        The projections predict the following changes of the covenanted key ratios
between 1992 and 1996:
a)   the operating ratio (excluding taxes) would decline from 72.4% to 64.0%;
b)   the net inernal cash generation as a percentage of investments would increase
from 58.1% (1993) to 98.0%3; and
c)   the debt service coverage would decrease from 13.2 to 8. 1.
5.18        If SPT Telecom is to manage its domestic fmancing within the current credit
ceiling of the county's banking system, the net internal cash generation as a percentage of
investments must not fail below 55%. For the same reason, the opeating ratio must not
exceed 65%. The debt service ratio must not fail below 2.5.
5.19        In order to fulfill the  finmacial covenants the average operating revenue per
DEL should be increased from the present level of US$259 per DEL to at least US$320 per
DEL. As mentioned above (pan. 5.16), additional revenue increases might prove necessary,
dependig on how rapidly the investment program can be implemented. At the present time,
tiff inreases are the only means available to achieve the required operating income. The
proposed Loan and Guarantee Agreements will, therefore, stipulate that tariffs be increased
by at least the amount required to ensure the Borrower's ompliance with the fiancial
covenants of the Loan Agreement.
5.20        Even though tiff icreases are necessary to increase profitability
immediately, over the long term, raising tariffs alone will not be sufficient to secure a
sustainable revenue level, because it would be necessay to increase tariffs to a level higher
than the average subscriber (business as well as residential) would be likely to be willing to
3his high self-finacing ratio is the result of raher consvadve sumw     regaig the speed of
implementaton of the investment progam (see pam. 5.16).



- 30 -
pay.' What is required is: (a) a  bstal increa  in the size of the revenue bae,
obtained mainly by an increase in the proportion of business subscribers, and (b) a lowering
of operating expenses per DEL. Apart from low tariffs, the main reason for low revenues
per DEL in CEE counties i that fte proportion of busines subscribers is far tot) low;
currnty only 30% of SPT Telecom's subscribers are business subscribers. In comparison,
when the Japanese telephone network had the same level of penetration as the Czech network
has today (i.e. 10-15 DEL per 100 inbabitants), business subscribers constituted 70% of the
total number of subscribers.
5.21        Furthermore, to reach a level of profitability comparable to TC companies in
the OECD area, SPT Telecom's productivity and efficiency must be gready improved, which
would lower operating expenses per DEL. For example, the number of employees per 1,000
DEL is far too high for SPT Telecom when compared with the coresponding ratios found in
more efficiently un companies. It goes without saying that since the TC sector will undergo
rapid growth as the lending program is implemerted, it will be possible to reduce the number
of employees per 1000 DEL without having to r"duce the total number of employees.
5.22        Efficiency mesurements expressed as call completion rates, dial tone delay,
trnsmission quality, time for faut clearance, etc. must also be improved. A large number of
programs for training and development are needed to accomplish this improvement. These
problems cannot be solved in the short term but will be addressed under "Corporate
Planning" in the IDP.
D. Flnandng Plan
5.23        SPT Telecom will need approximately Kc. 2.2 billion per annum in the period
1993-96 in eteal finacing. Most of these exteral funds will be in foreign currency. The
amount of foreign financing needed is primarily determined by the cost of the foreign
component in the investment program.
5.24        A summary of the cash flow statements for the program period 1993-96 shows
in detail on Table 5.3 how SPT Telecom plans to finance its program.
4     Compartive revenue leves per DEL are US$700 for TELMEX (Meenco), US$650 for CANTV
(Vezela) and US$800 for Telecom Artine.



- 31 -
Table 5.3: Financing Plan 1993-1996
(Conat January 1993 Prices - KcsIUS$ millions)
1993      1994      asss     196       ToWa       USS
Csh from Operations         8,034    10,509    11,320     12,462    42,324     1,485
Compulsy Outflows:
- Repaymentof Loans          259       393        412       412     1,476        52
- inwret Exqenses            317       476        599       707     2,100        74
- Taxadon                   2,288     2,992     3,113     3,384     11,778      413
Changein WorkingC pital     1.571     2,461     1,097     1,107     6,235       219
Net Imntl Cash Generaion    3,559     4,186     6,098     6,852    20,736       728
Invesmnents                 6,151     6,280     6,280     6,700    25,411       892
External Fnancing:
3RD                         166       703        703       708     2,280        80
EJD, EDRD Loans             332      1,406     1,406     1,416     4,560       160
Suppler's & Expnt Credits  1,717        0         0         0      1,717        60
Euroel                      335         0         0         0        335        12
Change in Cash               (0)        1S      1,927     2,274     4,216       148
5.25          hirty five pecent of the invouems (US$892 million) are being fnanced
from foreign sources, whie the remaining 65% is to be financed internally (at least 55%)
md by domestic borrowing.
5.26         SPr Telecom originally planned to use loans from the IBRD, EIB and EBRD
to finance the foreig costs of the investment program. The Government, however, was only
willing to be a guarantor for Kcs 7 billion of principal, which is equivalent to approx. US$
240 million, i.e. US$ 80 million for each of the IFIs. This therefore left a need to arrange
commercial loans or export credit financing for approximately US$60 million.
5.27         Unfortnately, contray to arLier commitmens made by Czech commercial
banks to SPT Telecom, these US$ 60 million could not be made available domestcally due
to tighter credit celings. Furthermore, by the me the loan negodations took place SPT
Telecom bad only managed to secure fumds to a vale of ECU17 million (US$22 million)
from export credit financing.
5.28         SPT Telecom's inbtention is still, however, that the remaining ECU30 million
(US$38 million) should be financed with commercial loans and export credits. Since one of
the conditions for loan effecdveness is that SPT must be able to demonstrate that there are no
gaps in their financing plan for 1993 - 95, the company requested EIB to provide an
additional loan of ECU30 million (US$38 million), to be used if commercial loans and export
credits do not marize. In agreing to this, EIB stated that the conditions for th'is loan will



- 32 -
be the same as those agreed for the existing loan, including an additional Government
guarantee. In conmection with this, it was also agreed that one of the Bank's conditions for
the effectiveness of its loan would be that all the conditions for the EIB and the EBRD loans
had been fulfilled.
E. Tariffs
5.29        Domestic telephone tariffs have not been raised since 1979. In that year, the
rates were increased by 25% with the intention of subsidizing the loss-maing postal system
as well as providing funds for the state through large tax revenues. Czech tariffs are
curentdy among the lowest in Europe (see Annex 14).
5.30        In 1992, the former FMPT made a proposal to the FMOF for tariff increases
totalling about 70%, including selected structral changes. In the version of the proposal
which was before the FMOF on Febnray 7, 1992, the most important new stmrural feature
was the introduction of metered local calls and the concept of peak and off-peak tariffs for
long distance calls. Since it was later decided that the company will not invest in metering
equipment needed to measure local calls, the proposed increases could not generate the
calculated revemes. At best, only around 20 to 25% additional revenues would be generated.
5.31        Another proposal to increase tariffs was presented to the Government in May
1993. The proposed tariff increases are equivalent to those proposed by FMPT in Febuary
1992 and will therefore give an annual revemne increase of between 20 - 25%. In addition
the MOE will introduce international tariffs between the Czech and the Slovak republics,
which in their estimation will increase SPT Telecom's annual revenue by at least 8%, which
is said to be sufficient to compensate for inflation, measured as PPI, from January 1, 1993
until the implementation of the new tariffs. Together this means a revenue increase of 30 -
35%. During the loan negotiations it was agreed that the tariff increases mentioned above
will consdute one of the conditions for the effectiveness of the Bank's loan.
5.32        Although the proposed tariff increases descnbed above represent a necessary
and valuable first step, they will probably be sufficient in neither level nor structure over the
medium and long run  There is significant uncerminty about how trffic will respond to the
changes and the revenue impact and oppores of the DON.
5.33        Therefore, in addition to the above mentioned tariff increase, the loan and
gurantee agreements will require that:
(a)   The effects of any 1993 tariff increases on revenues should be
monitored and a study of the results undertaken (for which consultant
assistance shall be obtamed). This study would analyze both stucture
and level of tariffs from the point of view of both financial viability and
economic efficiency.



- 33 -
(b)   On or before January 31, 1994, a report giving the conclusions of this
study shall be submitted to the three ban. This report shall analyze
both the level and  cture of tariffs and shall make recommendations
regarding: (i) the real level of tariffs necessary to sustain finmcial
viabilit and the agreed investment program; and (ii) structal changes
to improve economic efficiewy.
(c)   Furthemore, the report shall propose a timetable of actions to: (i)
imaprovethe tariff structure; and (ii) achieve the tariff level required to
fulfill the fnial covenants, by April 1, 1994.
5.34        The IDP includes a provision for SPT Telecom to obtain expert assistance in
upgrading its tariff settng capability with respect to considerations of demand, cost,
competitive environmnnt and regulatory iperatives. This activity should be coordinated
with a major study of tariff structue which would provide the basis for a geneal rebalancing
of tarffls (see para. 7.01).
F. Accounting and Fhtance
5.35        A new accounting law will come into force in 1993. The law will conform to
EC practice and SPT Telecom's present accounting system will be hard pressed to cope with
the change. A new and modern accounting system must therefore be implemented as soon as
possible as one of the components of the Institutional Development Program 5 (see Annex
6).
G. Csh mngmn
5.36        SPT Telecom feels that its billing system works well because it experiences
few problems with late pzyments and bad debts. Larger companies are billed through an
automaic debiting of their bank accounts. Prompt payments are the rule rather than the
exception for snmller companies and residenia subscnbers, because defaulters risk being
disconnected, with litde hope of reinstatment of their service.
5.37        Despite this ability to generate iternal cash, SPT Telecom has pronounced
cash deficit problems. SPT Telecom's revenmes are actually taxed before they are collected.
This results in monthly cash deficits that have to be bridged by short term loans.
5.38        SPT Telecom is now considering introducing subscriber pre-payments as well
as spreadg out meter reading and billig over the entire month. Billing is carried out by
regional offices, which means that heduarters does not have access to information about
She IBRD and EB  wil finc the accounting, financial aysi nd corporat finan  components
we  the am r_aer of the IDP (Corporaze Steg, Srvice Plwrming, Orgaizational Development,
HRD, Audit, Technical and Project Iplement) will be financed by EBRD.



-34 -
the regions' cash situation. Furthermore, there is no joint liquidity plan for the entire
corporation, i.e., for regions and subsidiary companies. The regions, for example, are very
independent and borrow from local banks on their own initiative without there beig any
consultation about the overall cash situation of the corporation. It is uuafly not taken into
account that certain regions could well have a cash surplus at the same time as other regions
need to borrow.
C.39        Another important aspect of cash management conrol is that no one seems to
have the responsibility for caling into question decisions tying up cash, such as building-up
excess inventory, etc.
5.40        The cash m a        issue will be dealt with in the IDP program (particularly
in the accountig and fiance package as well as associated technical assistance) with a view
to expressing ecommendatons to SPT Telecom management and to relevant goverment
authorities.
H. Auditing
5.41        Anmual audits of SPT Telecom will be carried out by an extenal auditor
acceptable to the Bank for fiscal year 1993 and threafter. For fiscal years 1993-94, anmal
financial statements and the related auditor's report must be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year. By 1995, however, SPT Telecom should move to
international norms and submit audit reports within five months after the end of the fiscal
year.
L Repots
5.42         For the third and fourth quarter of 1993, SPT Telecom will submit an
income statement within two months of the end of the quarter. Beining in 1994, SPT
Telecom shall, in addition, submit a quarterly cash flow statement and a balance sheet. The
format of these reports was agreed during negotiations.
J. Finandal Covenants
5.43        IBRD and EIB have agreed to use the same fiial covenants in their Loan
Agreement. It was agreed tiat: internal generation of fmds will not fall below 55% of the
three-year moving average (previous year, current year and projected following year) of
investment; the ratio of operating expenses to operat  revemnes (excluding taxes) will be no
higher than 65%; ad the debt service rado, i.e. the ratio of internally genented fimds to
total debt-service obligations, will be maintained at a level not less than 2.5:1 (para 5.18).



- 3S -
VI. Economic Analysis
A. Rate of Retum
6.01         Iaudl Rate of Retu  (FRR): The fianci interna rate of r:turn (FRR)
for the investm    program is 42.9% for SPr Telecom (see Anewx 15). This figure is based
on the following assumptio: (a) there will be additiondl traffic from new subscribers who
will be connected to the local network in the four-year program period; (b) there wil} be
additional taffic from exising subscrbers who formerly could not complete their calls but
whose taffic the overlay network will be able tu handle; and (c) there wiUl be an additional
50% incr         tunnk and imtational traffic in 1996, and increases will continue thereafter
by 5% per year through 2001.
6.02        The following sensitivity test was carried out on the FRR for SPr Telecom:
Ca                                      FRR
Base                                  42.9%
Delay of one year                     33.3%
Investme cost higher by 20%            37.2%
aintenance cost high  by 50%          36.9%
6.03        EconI Rate od Return (ERR): The fiancial rate of retun, though high,
still does not fully reflect the net economic benfit from the project. The actual value of
improved teecmunctn service to cusomers is much grater than indicated by the
tariffs charged, and this amount can be estmated in a number of ways. For instance, in
similar countries, where a maket for private housg and office space has now developed,
the 'conumer plusp i8 in catd by the significant difference in rental costs for similar
premises between those with and those without a telephone line. Although a well developed
real estate market does not yet exist in the Czech Republic, one would expect that similar
results will occur when it does. There are also black and grey markes for telephone access
in the Czech Republic as are found elsewhere in CEB. Another indiator can be found in the
price that new cusmers are willig to pay for celluar serwe. Although the existing
cellular fracise may have oveshot the mark on pricing, there is no doubt (especially given
experience in neighboring counties) that a  bsubttial number of customes are willing to
pay  btanilly more for cellular sevice and be connected to the network immedtly,
rather than wait for fixed service at the lower price. This is particularly valid since in most
cases ceular service is not much beter in quality (since cellular phones must traunsmit
through the normal network) and since momt cellular phones in CEE are purchased simply to
get a pho-any phone-and not in order to obtain mobile service, per se.



- 36 -
6.04        Revalug telmmn cations conctons at these implied prices would yield
an estimate of benefits (and ERR) several percentage poins higher than the FRR. However,
this factor will not be as important as it might seem in the case of this particula lending
project. The higher, indirect value of a conwection implied by the higher price of prmses
with a connection applies mainly to residential or small business users, where obtainig any
comnection is a major problem. For large businesses (all of which have at least one
connection) the problem is rather one of obtaining sufficient connections and service of
sufficiently high quality to conduct business efficiently. This lending project focuses heavily
on business customers, especially larger businesses, and its main benefits and revenues will
come from the increased traffic and quality of service provided to business customers. It is
only in the long run that these profits witl form the basis for extending and improving service
to the nation as a whole-an important economic benefit not included in the FM.
6.05        Project Benefits: The proposed project would: (a) dramatically improve the
quantity and quality of traitional TC services and permit new services for key sectors of the
population (especially businesses) by providing direct access to a modem, internationally
integrated digital network in a short period of time (by the end of the 1995); and (b)
significantly improve service to all subscribers by decongesting the existing long-dice and
ternational network and thereby improving its performance. In addition the project would
facilitate network expansion and modernizaton by: (a) creating a soundly engineeed digital
skeleton upon which to build the fuure modern network; and (b) by increasing the revenue
generatng capacity of the system in order to finance rapid growth. Taken together, these
benefits would significantly improve the capacity of the Czech Republic to sustain its
economic reform and development program.
6.06        Riss: The principal risks relate to: (a) the financial strength of sPT Telecom
and its ability to sustain high investment; (b) the implementaton capacity of SPr Telecom;
and (c) the limited experience of the new Czech Government institutions. These risks are
acceptable because it is the Govermnent's policy to promote self-financing infauctre
investment, which means that the Govermment wil have to set tariff levels which will permit
the imple tion of the agreed development project. Furthermore, the Government gives
highest priority to investments in those areas of telecommunications in which the customers
are willing to pay higher rates for services rendered and in which existng tanffs are
relatively low, leaving room for these increases without loss of traffic.
6.07        Moreover, to increase the capacity of SPT Telecom to manage mese risks, a
number of provisions have been made. Measures to sbtengt  the financial management of
SPT Telecom are included in the project, such as the creation of a strong financial
department and training of its staff, tariff studies leading to reform and rebaaing, and the
design and implementation of commercial accounng systems and related MIS. A series of
financial covenants (tied to internal cash generation and operating ratio) will be required to
ensure adequate financial performance of the borrower. A strong Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) was created in SfT Telecom prior to negotation. Initially, this unit dealt mainly
with pr        preparation; increasingly, it will be responsible for project execution. The



- 37 -
project will contain technical assistance for the PIU. Finally, the Govment's policy and
reguatory function is being developed with the assistuane of qualified consultans.
B. Envhrental and Health Aspects
6.08        The project is expected to have no adverse envental or health impacts.
Indeed, to the extent that it facilitates substiution of TC services for traa'qportation, the
project will have a net positive environmena and health impact. According to the
Operatonal Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, the project has been placed in
category C.
VII. Agreements Reached
7.01        During loan negoiations, the foUowig agreements were reached:
a.    With the borrower:
Fiadal Covenants
By November 30, 1993:
(i)   SPT Telecom shall submit an income statement for the third quarter of
1993 and thereafter on a quarterly basis within two months from the
end of the quarter. Begining in 1994, SPT Telecom shall also submit
a quarterly cash flow statement and a balance sheet (para 5.42).
From January 1, 1994 onward:
(ii)  Internally generated investible funds (opeing income plus
depreciation minus taxes, debt service and increases in working capital)
for any one year sball not be less than 55% of a three year moving
average of investment (paras 5.18 and 5.43).
(iii)  The rado of operatng expenses (including depreciation) to operating
revenues shall not exceed 65% (paras 5.18 and 5.43).
(iv) The debt service ratio shall not fall below 2.5 (paras 5.18 and 5.43).



- 38 -
Timebound Acton Plan:
(v)   A study of tariffs is to be undertake by SPT Telecom and a rpo
submitted to the MOE, the MOF and the Bank by January 31, 1994.
This study will recommend what further adjustnts may be needed in
the level and stuctue of tariffs (including provision for differential
charges for direct subscribers to the DON) (para 5.33).
Other:
(vi)  microwave transmission equipme  purchased with the prceeds of the
loan shall remai the property of SPT Telecom and any arrangement
for leasmg or operation of this equipment by another company
(specifically, by CRc) must be approved by the Bank (paras. 2.23 and
3.11 - 3.12).
b.   With the Guarantor:
(i)  the Guarantor sball increase, or cause to be increased, tariff levels as
necessary in order to ensure that the Borrower is able to comply with
the financial covenas (para 5.31); and
(ii) the Guarantor shall review the existing distribution of tariff
responsibilities and any studies undertaken by the Guarantor and/or the
Borrower, and by January 31, 1994 shall propose an action plan for
implementing a program for a regulatory regime, methodology and
procedures covering telecommunications tariffs. This will be discssed
with the Bank and, by April 1, 1994, actions will be taken to
implement the resuling program (paras 5.32 and 5.33).
c.    Addiional conditions of effectivenes:
(i)   All conditions precdnt to the effectiveness of the EIB and EBRD
loans shll have been fulfilled (para. 5.28);
(ii) The Borrower sball have furnished the Bank with a satisfactory
finaning plan for the 1993-95 period (para 5.28); and
(iii)  The Guarantor shall have authorzed the tariff increase agreed upon
during the negodations (pars. 5.31).
7.02        Subject to the above conditions and agreements, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$80 million equivalent for a period of fifteen years, including a five-year
graCe period, at the Bank's stndard variable interest tate.



CZECH REPUBLIC
SPT TELECOM$ e.p.
ORGANIZATION CHART
(As of 1-1-93)
3inea Drctor
o   Commerce       ~~~personnel &k  strategy    Deepet OeaIon
i :|Economy    Cooperate  A Policy
o~~~~~Zo
a                                    ___..
X                                , r            
e0e<+|"t )6|                                   1            +L
0~~~~~~~-
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prui t-oOsrv
*     I         -I         II                       I      -'-
71 EMtit [I1   II                                  II[t 
Ecnmc.ann               nomtc                     neubn     COeai



CZDch R_pg
BasicT  d           _   Dau, t196-1991
-loe          1usI                       lows         1isi           urn
ti uaLd mm  amus o8.126i                         3.106        $.07          up6       ~    07            .6
wnd                                 07            57            40            62            go            14
abmomo                           6M            SM            80            us             MU           6MB
t0dIcq,apal(xl.O00UIrm             ism utN                    1            1m            1,7           I
mmmi       a g                     6.6            69           4.6 as                      Z9            1.1
_     0_matom h sig              1'm2           1.0          1.60          1.5           1,776         I'm
nutoImm,gshlU..0c1.000)                            3             44            47            7?           116
mmit i huge                                      (A (2                        -1)          (J4          (14
autaol umha                                       22            46            46            76           115
, W   oitm     d
011.3                             2.60          2746         2.W7          2              U1
11w_dDELs
OCI1"                           o1.            1A3           1              1 156        1.04          1.707
budhsA                                           450          466           ae            488           s6o 
mtenSd                             -7                        1,032         1'80          II18          1.19
payphorw X 1)                        -          11,717       1276          13            14.742        Is,=
nuvdO ELOWIO0pop.                    14            14            15          1L1           157           16
ma_@s 1up iruftto(#)               0A67          06                          0.92          a.92           09
Met doldl ad  can_             1t80,136       167,504          7          27001          W.201        4164
114 kiteruibn wb
8maI                                       19                                  4             0             0.
au_1ma_                            142           148           162           167           161            6l1
no. bumdn dmh                     2S75         64,U44        65,24           757         70.131        72.035
(1,0008dgs
total                           10.414        11,72         13,6          Is,=          1612          16s
mm11l   _&Gi dmIAL                176           16            12n          .94             as            4U
autonml                         10.2          11,57         1.419         18.125        14                -
nom oungs cmaomatl)                  34             s            so            a             44            04
tottaffI(e                          6             725         66t2           11s           1471            -
*oingotrafls(e)                  264           32U           37.5            546         612.3            -
innolfti()                       5415          a"            407.7           654         S 7
tddl  o. Inlma k lon
dmus(oA &)"                       1,406         1,48         1,464         Ism               4         2.726
(&Apfa    x 1 )                 310           81,7568 375                 49^.3         74217             -



Cuuch RsPsMI
Basdc Teommnlmndca_tn Data, 1988 - 191
-EU.SAPH Y&  TA
no.eohachuigu                      16            1s           I6            Is           15           16
apotdof ewhw4ne"                10,760        1.7 40       10,740       10M          1152          10,7
notaInftmprWs,Im.                  -            (20)           0          162           120          (3
con ed td  aububm                8,104        8,9           85           8705         8,412         081S
omn ctddatatnna(tct)             2X81         270           300          4,254        4,37          4,07
viatephom Olns                  1,100        1,511    t     m           2,441        2,t           246
viluewdln 1l                    t,28         14            1,598        1,768                      1,725
vstu  Wsph lOm                     93           32           s9            46           43           40
reabtrod ietuc--8e               1.813        1'm           1S'           1,1         1,             SOB
WalwamOl,000o)                    277          278           279          28           290e
__ _ _ __ __ _.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
nv dw w §__~ ~ ~~~~i
td_t,^  m       m            "             X            S            "                              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 42-
AbV= 3
CZECH REPUBLC LEPHON N           A
DB.ENATIONAL
15 ini xhge
in 11 8mos
161 nodal
.        ~~~~~~~~........ ,.. ....*...
A4   30 .        .
bcad gu 
Sml



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page I of 3
CZECH REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecomuuuncati Mafactug 1ndusy
Like most other CEE countries, the fomer Czecholovakia had a large, full-
range TCMI which, in the past made the country pracdically self-sufficient in TC equipment.
Prior to the revolution in late 1989, the Czechoslovak TCMI supped 90% of the equipment
required by the domestc TC sector as well as exporftng a sigficant amount-primarily to
the former USSR. At that time, vitaly all TC manufacturing was in the hands of a single
conglomerate, TESLA. Today, the TCMI is composed of a number of facWories, all of
which were formerly part of TESLA, but have now been broken off. All still retain the first
name,, TESLA, followed by the name of the town or suburb in which they are located.
The relationsip betwe  the industry and its main customers, the telecom
operators of the two new Republics (ST and SPI), was that of centralized
monopoly/monopsony-as was tpical of CEE centrally planned economies. The two PITs
would receive annual quantitative investment targets frm the Federal Ministry, virually all
the equipment for which had to be obtained from the designated source. Even the choice of
technology was (and, to a degree, still is) the progtve of the Ministry. Similarly, the
TCMI would receive annual production targets together with the destinaon to which the
products would be shipped. "Buyers* (PlTs) and 'sellers' (the TCMI) then merely aranged
the dels of transfers, shipments, dates, etc.
The strong pressure to accomplish yearly production and investment plans in
quantitative terms together with the absence of either competition or 'hard budget
constraints' sultemd  in lax quality sUtndards and little incentive to invest ag vely in
R&D. These domestic tendencies were reinforced by the Soviet export market which was
both large and undemanding on either qualitative or ehnical/innovative groumds. CoCom
restrictions exacerbated these tendencies since they both: (a) prevented access to the best
technology available in the world; and, (b) procted CMEA TC1I from competition from
western companies. Paced with little incentive to ime performa, the CSFR TCMI,
PITs, and research communty drifted apart and made little eft to  -ordine or co-
opert. (This sittion, it should be said, was virtually identical to that in aU the CEE
countries prior to the 1989/90 revolutions).
Up until the labe 1970's and early 1980's the Wefct on technology was not so
great. The basic technology of eectro-mechanical anaogue switchn and analogue
transmission were well established and widely known. CoCom restcions had not yet been
agrsively tgeted on TC technology and equipment. In this envimrment CMEA TCMIs



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
were able to obtain lices from leading westem firms as well as develop thir own
equipment more or less in line with world standards. Quality, cost, and delivery times, were
not on world levels, but the gap was not enormous. Indeed, one CMEA country (Hungary)
was able to establish a fairly successful program of TC equipment exports to the west
(primarily to the third world) using price discounts to make up for the relatively small gap in
quality and technology between them and the best western suppliers. While the CSFR TCMI
exported very little to the West, the equipment it produced was very similar in quality and
technology to that produced in Hungary (and in Poland, Roomania and Bulgaria).
By the early 1980's, however, the digital electronic revolution was in full
swing in the world TCMI. This is a totaUlly different technology from the electro-mechanical
analogue technology which proceeded it-as different as mechanical typewriters are from
computer-based word prcessing. Since this new technology had enormous significance for
military applications, capability, and intelligence, CoCom restrictions were aggressively
appied and the CSFR, like the rest of the CMEA, was effectively locked out. (Even today,
when CoCom restrictions are being rapidly relaxed, TC technology remains one of the two
or three most sensitive issues and one of the last to be relaxed. Experience in the Gulf war
has only heightened and reinforced the importance and sensitivity of this technology.) An
attempt was made by the CMEA to develop modem electronic digital switching and
tansmission capability, but this was abandoned as impossible or impracdcal within a realistic
time frame and at a realistic cost. From then on the gap between CMEA (including CSFR)
TCMIs and their western countrparts widened dramatically.
Today all the CEE countries (including the Czech Republic) and their TCMIs
face a similar situation and a similar set of dilemmas, the main features of which are:
*  The domestic TCMI is lare, politically and economically important but also
hopelessly obsolete. The equipment produced and the facilities for producing it are,
in terms of what the market now demands, virtualy useless;
* Nevertheless, the TCMI is not the worst industry in the country: it enjoys a large and
rapidly growing domestic demand and has a strong base of skilled workers,
technicians, engineers etc.;
* Given that many other industries will have to be closed because they are bath obsolete
and have no market, CMEA governments are loathe to see their TCMIs, which are
ratively less badly off, closed as well;
*  Moderniing and expanding the TC network will require modern electronic equipment
starting immediately. There is no economic or technological justification for
continuing to install obsolete analog equipment now that CoCom reaxation permits
purchase of digital equipment. If such equipment cannot be obtained domestically, it
can and should be imported. On the other hand, hard currency is scarce; if CEE



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
countries are forced to import the bulk of their required TC equipment, it will almost
cerlainly slow down the mte of TC network expansion and modernization;
*  The domestic TCMI ca     be modernized entirely from witin quicidy enough to
meet this demand, so association of some form with foreign firms is essntial;
* Each CEE country (including the Czech Republic) has a domestic market which is too
small to sustain efficient production of the main types of TC equipment. Further: (a)
there is overcapacity in the world TCMI, hence foreign firms will attempt to restrict
their CMEA partners from re-exportng licensed products into the parent company's
world markets; and, (b) neither the mechanisms nor the will yet exists to attempt to
co-ordinate TCMI investment between CEE countries so as to build a larger and
(potentially) more viable market base.
In the ftce of this set of circumstances and dilemmas, each CEE country,
including the Czech Republic, is attempting to implement the same strategy, i.e: use
guaranteed and protected access to the domestic market to induce foreign firms to enter into
JVs with domestic TCMI firms to upgrade and maintain all lines of domestic TC
manufactuing capacity. All countries seem to be still counting on continuing to export
substantial amounts to Russia and other countries of the former USSR.
There are, obviously, major questions whether this strategy can succeed. Most
questionable is the likelhood of major exports to the former USSR. The same westem
manufacturers who are entering into JVs in CEE are doirg the same in the former USSR-not
to mention seeking direct exports there. There is no obvious reason why the fomer USSR
should prefer to import from CEE rat-her than build its own JVs and/or import direct from
the West. The only possible incentive would have been hard currency savings but trade
between former CMEA countries is now on a hard curmence basis as well. If CEE TCMIs
attempted to retain their old markets in the former USSR by price discounts (or 'soft-
cunrency' options, barter etc.) they would probably lose money since: (a) it is unlikely that
they wil be low-cost producers compared to ther best, most efficient western competitors;
and (b) an extremely high proportion of their own costs (nitially 70 - 80% and probably
never less than 50%) of 'Oheir own costs will be in hard cunrency for components, material
etc.
It is highly liklly, in act, that the TCMI strategy being followed in all CEE countries
will fiil in one or more of its objecdves; either: (a) the new NVs will succeed in delivering
high quality products at competitive prices but will nQt produce much value-added in the
CEE country; or O) they will produce substantial value-added domestically but the
equipment will not be the most modern, cheapest or best possible.



- 46 -
ANNE 5
CZECH REPUBLIC
Tetoml muntoatons Prole
Physical Investment Data. 1993 - 195
Eufidi_i SIm                                 14    14.6        ..    14.6
Tratswtcbiq                              32,000    2.9       11.0     13.9
Local switcbiq
AnaOS                1000 Lb"             1U4   29.7         ..    29.7
Digil                1000Li0m              384   27.4      92.0    119.4
Tannnmiuaa
LID Optia C)         Clo in               3,19    29.8      39.2     0.0
Loca Opil C          Cabe km              1,000    13.S     13.5     27.0
COsppeCaIw CO                    uI=r      190C  375.1       41.1    416.2
SubsorihM             Let                     1    17.7      16.0     33.7
OPmta supat Btam                                    2.7      10.9     13.6
TA & Trg                                            14.6     13.S     28.1
_ent ol                                               ..     22.9     22.9
Miacalla_eous                                       7.8      10.4    18.2
BASE COST                                         535.8    270.5    8063
C-
_tyulcl                   .29.5                             15.7     45.2
Pilca                                             26.2      13.8     40.0
r  - OTA                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       591.5    300.0     891.5



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 7
CZECH REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
bIIudtudona Dev.opme    PMrp
PROGRAM OBJEClVE A  SCOPE
1.         The msin objecfive of the Intitutonal Development Program ([DP) is to
asst the Cxech Republic's SPI Telecom s.p. in a restucg process which will
involve: fi) tie transition frm analog to digital systems and the introduction of
modern technology; (ii  e tranitidon from a centrally planned system to a market
ewonomy; (iii) the introduction of competition and the reduction of the basic telephone
monopoly; Nd (iv) the eventual pritization and   sformation of SPT into a joint
stock company. In summary, the IDP will enable the transfomation of SPT from a
government agency into an independent and autonomous company run in a commercial
fahion. The IDP will include diet assistance for the execudon of the Project as
well as for the overall insttuoal development of SPT.
2.         The IDP will be executed by way of tchnical assistance which will focus
on the design, development and implementaton aspects of m gement systems, as
well as in-housw ran    involving the transfer of technology, know-how and hands-on
sk. In-house trining will const of both on-the-job trainig and classroom
lectuing, and may include stdy visits abroad.
The IDP ib comprised of six main components:
-    Corpoate Strategy, Service Planning and Organizional Development
-    Human Rources Development
-    Accmuntng and Finance
-    Auditing
Technical Experis



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
-    Project Implementation
3.   Detailed Terms of Reference for each component are descrbed below.
I,    Corporate Strateg, Serice Pbnning and Organzational Development
Component
This component will cover all aspects of assistance for SPT related to
undertaking the privatization process. It includes designing and implementing a
busines plan and an operating approach, and developing a market plan to meet
new marketing and sales cbjectives. The responsibilities of the technical
assistance component is as follows:
(i) Conduct a strategic and organizational diagnostic study with the aim of
defining a global corporate strategy and recommending a new
orgniational structure for SPT.
(ii)  Assist SPT in choosing the most desirable option(s) for its transformation
into a commercially-oriented organization.
(iii)  Assist SPT in any bidding process, negotations, definition of roles and
responsibilities, business/financial agreements and selection of eventual
private sector participants.
(iv)  Assist SPT in developing an operating vision, including: translating
business objectives into key functional strategies and priorities, detailing
key operating processes and decisions, setting attainable and measurable
goals.
(v)   Assist SPr in formulating a Business Plan, including: market analysis,
investment program, asset utilization targets, revenue/profit target and
tariff policies, and quality of service performance targets.
(vi)  Assist SPF in the design and implementation of service planning
activities, including:
-    demand forecasting techniques and models
-    market/service segmentation techniques



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 7
-    user needs assessment techniques (quanttative surveys).
1.   XIHm     Resores Development Component
This component will cover all ap    of assistance to SPI in designing and
implementing a human resource development system and procedure to meet its
needs and respond to its new strategic direction. Specific tasks include:
Diagnose SPT's existing capabilities as compared with required
capabilities, especially in the areas of managerial and technical
capabilities, in order to identify any gaps.
Prepare a Human Resources Master Plan.
Assist SPT in the design and implementation of a capabilities-based
orgnization, including productivity enhancement measures,
peformance-related incentives and rewards, empowerment down to the
lowest levels in the organization, measures contributing to required
changes to corporate culture, desired skill mix, manpower/human
resources development plan, training requirements, and design and
implementation of a human resources databank.
Provide SPr with technical asistance in designing and implementing
personnel management systems related to recruitment and placement,
aining, compensation and motivation, appraisal and career management,
and social policy.
m.      ant  and Finance Component
This component will cover all aspects of assstance for SPT in the design and
implementation of accounting and financial systems and procedures and of
management information systems, in order to meet changing needs and respond
to new strategic approaches. Responsibilities include:
-    Assist SPr staff in designing, developing and implementing West
European accounting standards and procedures.
Assist SPT staff in designing, developing and implementing cost aalysis
techniques and in establishing financial ratios.



- 50 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 7
Provide SPT staff with debt management and cash flow planing and
monitoring tools and systems.
Assist SPIR staff in prepaing a 3-year Financial Plan, to be incorporatd
in the annually updated Business Plan.
IV. Audit Component
The audit must cover all aspects of performing an external audit based on
generally accept  accounting principles and stadards (GAAP/GAAS). The
prime objecive being to ensure that all Fiscal 1993 opening Balance Sheet
items (i.e., assets and liabilities) have been subjected to a thorough audit based
on West Europe  standards. Relaed spinoff benefits may include helping
SPT: (i) to meet its accounting and finance responsibilities; (ii) to safisfy the
requirements of instittional lenders; (iii) to help prepare for eventual joint
st6ck company privatization; and (iv) to move progressively towards West
European standards.
Auditing activities to be performed include:
A review of the financia and management information systems and
controls within SPT as compared to best practice in the industry.
-    A review of the accounting policies and principles followed by SPT as
compared with those generally accepted in the industry.
-    A long form report including a discussion of the main issues is to be
presented to SPR mangement at the end of the audit.
V.   Technial Component
The Techmical Component will actually be made up of three related areas of
traiingan assistance related to the following:
-    Network Planning and Engineering
-    P:roject Plnning and Management
-    Operations and Maintenance
A. Network Pblng and E



- 51 -
ANNEXC 6
Page 5 of 7
This area will cover all aspec of asistn  to SPT in the design and
implemention of nework plannig and engnring tools and tchq, and
related training. Th assistnc should be of such a nae as to enable SPITs
staff to prepare a netwok plan, including: prosing forecas, forecast
monitoringa  andaysis, and planning stage. This assistance should cover the
following areas;
-    capcityplanning
networkm routing
-    fiaciliti  assignmen (switch, trunk, pln)
-    internatonal network plnidng
-    direction of CfITT Woring Groups
-    interational affairs issues
-    assistance in establishing a Traffic E ring Unit and a Systems
Engineering Unit.
B. Project Pannla.ea
This component will cover all ape  of assistance to SPT in the area of projet
planning and management, and related traing. The assistance shoultd be of
such a natre as to enable to SPT staff to prpar a Project Plan and Procedures
Manual covering the following generic areas, and to implement hese
procedures thereafter:
capital budgeting
project planning/sequencing/monitoting tehniques
- project aprpiton
tendering and evaluation of bids
installation/testing/commissioning logistics and procedures.
C. Operatons and MaiIteIance
This area will cover all aspects of training and assistace to SPW in
implemeting an Operations and Maintenance (OAW system, excluding those
aspecs dready covered by the telVphone switching systems vendors and foreign
operats (if any). The traing will covr the following areas:
-    customer-oiented objectves and pertbrmance standards
-    OAM managi  and technical supemision systems
-    traffic management sytem



- 52 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
-    preventive and corve maintenance procedures
-    network simulation models
-    customer trouble report and inqury handling procedures
-    design of a network status and service quality databa
-    emergency fault interventionlrepair procedures
-    OAM training related to operations with West European stauiards.
VI.  Project ImplementaIn Component
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established in order to coordinate,
monitor, evaluate and manage al aspects of the Development Program,
including the physical investment program and the IDP. This component of the
IDP will assist SPT with the overall project implementation by providing the
following services:
-    detailed project planning
ation of techncal specifications and tender documents, issuing
bidding documents, evaluation of proposals and contracts negotiations.
-    supervision of contracts execution
-    definition of acceptance tests
-    coordination of procurement activities
-    synchronization of activities of SfT and suppliers
-    project implementation scheduling using PERTCPM computer techniques
-    ensuring continuous cost control and time schedule adherence
-    coordination and supervision of installation by local companies, foreign
suppliers and own staff
-    project benefit, monitoring and evaluation (PBME)
-    day-to-day management
-    project reports and project financial statements.
Proam  Costs and Finning Plan
The total cost of the IDP is estimated at 3,875,000 ECU, as detailed in the
following table:



- 53 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
CZECH REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROGRAM COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
IDP Cost
Program Component         Person
Months   (ECU 000)
Corporate Strategy, Service      32         480
Panning and Organzatonl
Development
Human Resou   Development        16         270
Accountg ad Finance*             54         810
Audit                            40         480
Technical -Total                 54         810
-Network Planning                30         450
-Project Planning                 9          135
-O&M                             15         225
Project Implementation           70         840
Sub-Total                       320        4,500
Contingencies (5.0%)                        225
TOTAL                                      4,725
*Tentative amount subject to further evaluation at contract signature.



- 54 -
ANNEX 7
CZECH REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Trann md T nocl A          Sm
Person   Cost/Day    Totll    Forei       Local      Total
Days      (KCs)   (MKCs)   (M  )         (M $)      (M $)
Training    31,500     8,000       252.0        4.2        4.2       8.4
Tec. Asst.                                     12.5       12.5      25.0
Total                                          16.7       16.7      33.4
MQW=
The invment  ements fr taining are based on the number of person days of trining,
calculated by SPT as being ncassay to meet thd requirements of the progrm. The costs
have been allocated equaly between local and foreign currency as a best estimate of where
the cos will occur.
It was considerd and agreed during Wtechnial discussions between the banks and SPT that it
would be prudent for SPT to match in local currency the financing provided by the banks for
technical assisce.



Czech Repubic
Telecommunicatons Project
Total Project Cost, 1993 - 1995
cm $US millions)
r: L            1W                          ~          ~          ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~199  199S                   l93S-
LOC      FOR      TOT       LOC       FOR       TOT        LOC       FOR       TOT       LOC       FOR        T
TuAuItswilb          2.0      7.6      9.1       0.4       1.7       2.1        0.4       1.7       2.1       28       11.0      13.9
Loed sw itg        173      28.2     4S.S      26.0      42.5      68.6      26.1       42.?      68.8      69.4     113.5    192.
IJD T knudsm        8.0       8.0     16.0      10.4      10.4      20.8       11.4      20.9      32.2      29.7      39.2     6911
Locd ustwwk        128.7     20.7.   149.5     135.1      21.8      156.8     117.9      19.0     136.9     381.7      61.S    443.2
T.A. md Tvau         S.l      4.8      9.9       4.7       4.4       9.1       4.7        4.4       9.1      14.6      13.5     28.1
?djacsllaneam       12.5     10.6    23.1       12.S      10.6      23.1       12.5      10.6      23.1      37.S      31.9     69.6
TOTAL BAS           173.6     80.0    253.6      189.1      91.4     280.S     173.0      99.2     2722      53S.8     2705      8063
COST
CONTMGcIS
"a"                 9.6       4.8     14.3      10.3       S.3       15.6      9.6        5.6      15.2      29.5      I5.7     4S.2
Pncs                3.S       1.6      S.1       9.5       4.6      14.2       13.1      7.6       20.7     ,26.2      13.8     40.0
TOTAL              .13.0      6.4     19.4      19.9       9.9      29.8      22.8       13.2      35.9      SS.7      295      8$2
PRaOCr COST         186.?     86.3    273.0     209.0      101.3     310.3     195.8     112.4    3S2        S915      300.0    8915
I...
4                          1~~~~~~~~~~~



- 56 -
ANNEX 9
CZECH REPUBIC
TLCOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schele of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
PROJECTED SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year                     Disbursement Per      Cumulative     Bank
Semester                                 Semester     Through Semester  Profle
FY 1994
Jue 1994                                    6                  6           5.0
1Y 1995
December 1994                               7                  13          12.0
June 1995                                   7                  20          18.0
PY 1996
Deceiiber 1995                              9                 27           32.0
June 1996                                   11                40           41.0
FY 1997
December 1996                               12                 52          56.0
June 1997                                   10                 62          61.0
FY 1998
December 1997                               7                 69           67.0
June 1998                                   6                  75          74.0
FY 1999
December1998                                3                  78          80
June 1999                                   2                  80           80



TECOMMUNICAnONS PROJECr
Bid Pacges                  1993             1994            199S            1996       1997
1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2    3  4  1   2  3  4  1  2
1.  Locl Digil               B   C  -  -  - -               ---         2  -  -  -  CC
- 5)
2.  Optical                  B  O  C   -  1  -  -         - -       2   -  -  -  -  CC
u'
3.  Miravme                  B  O  C  - I    -  -  2    -- CC
4.       D      Of           B  O  C  -  I  -  -  CC
coo cables
S.  LocalCtoppc              B  0  C  -  1  -  -  -    2  -  -   -  3  -  -  CC
6.   0t                          B  0  C  -  1  -  -    -  -  -   -  -  -  -  CC
Su~ Syaa
7.  Local Ntofk                  B  0  C  -  I  -  -    -  -  -   -  -  -  -  CC
Dig. T01
S.  Tec  A8st                B  0  C  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  -   -  -  -  -  CC
and Trahila
B       Bid Inviatio
O        peln of Bkds 
C    Conat sie                                                                                        2
1C_ 
2,3   -  Seonld, Tbiri
CC       conhmpt



CZECH REPUBUC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SPITexconm
Pwrfrmance hndcators, 1989-1995
__1          iseo          191           1992         1993          1994          1995 
(actual      (act ual)     Lacmal    (estmate      (pojctd        WMojctd      (oected
mm AluNap Ota 1"7I2 1m779                                   , 10892        2T17          27            20           2,616
OlOX  1,00ll)
dw
no DELx 10(l                      1.A                         11707        1.791         1.875         2.0416
olanefUrto ()                                   67.0          6.16         81.0          630           75.f0        87T0
no   . wARM  O                  270,841       337201        414              S2             --                         -
binVsdtit
reddenti waites
Da pa100opop.                      1.1           15.7          16           17.4          21            21.1         92.2
no. nea  Iuts                     1670          2X4           2.76         3.000
no. tmerubantruns                  .75s        70.131       7MM6.5
no. d  cal ehangs                 8$07          3,057         306 
no. oftrae iteaeangco
dIgta                                                                         7            7             7             7
ogOu                                                           16             8            a             8 a
Isle  shtbe                       0,706         8412         8%1
JAUF1Y OF SERICE
N. b ~uI 0IECOO  Omntb                             6           Ss            .5            6A           6s            4.5
avdw.dd u *.t (de"                               1.62          1A2          1.02           16            1A           1.3
_hourslO&IVea, 1s                                            1.7           1.6           16           13            1.1
effctveoa copimdan
d4gial ocale                                      0                O6a                    8            41*           46
dWkitl  longdl.                                   0             0           40*           46            0 
EwRaE 
rno  per0 DELG                    5*16.0         1.6          4.7 S        71L72                         12 1016
ot        DELO                    5.9 .          6.8         T14.  -        187           17          910            11.
opratlolooper                     2460          3,007        4.6           6*3           66           6646          66



CZECH REPUBIJC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SPT Telecoms s.p.
IW7-02 6fm.  F%Woa IM- IS Prol  FIW.           Income Statemnts
1W7-CWmWft1o I_t- 1     Cmm g JM4SPdwo
Km MUL                                  1987       9l      1l       1990     1991     1892     1993     1994     1996     1996
Connec_onClhaes                 140      145      149       149      198      277      260      862      462      466
Teephonet RPenue                668      696      725      751       796      644      928    1.019    1J42    1>2
Telphone Call Rnue            4,463    4.731    4,976    5,669    6,894    8.X3   10,351   13.407   15.141   16,941
I.0sd uLnes                    1,410    1.37    1387    1.107      916      871       880        9      697      906
otherstle                       3868     359      368    1.494    1.524    1,555    2,070    2.111   2153    2.196
Tebeaph &TaLe                   524      514      523      485       397      290      235      223      212      201
Value-Added Seilces             334      356      370      154      192      231       300      345      397      437
PABX                            546      563      576      583      574      562      534       507      482      458
TOl Operatng Renu                       8,463    8,742    9,075   10,592   11,491   12,893   15,552   18.84   2Q7   22,83
Sablis & Socl costs             930      959    1,006    1.464    1,754    2.198    2.490    2849    3,2    3,69          v,
Mastes                          902      972      934    1.033    1,987    2.456    2,93    349    3,738    4,188         ¢
Olr - Non Telcom                541      606      638      556    1,039    1.700        0         0        0        0
Overhea                         172      172      168      461      505      567    1,555    1868    2S8    2.6
Marlco                            0        0        0        0        0        0       156      189      209      229
Depreclaon                            1070    1.133    1,200    1,269    2.319    2,416    2,967    3.383    30         4.2
Total Opeatn Eenss                      3.615    3.842    3.944    4,783    7,604    9,338   10.150   11.758   13,360   14,636
Net Opeai  Incom                        4,847    4.900    5,131    5,809    3.887    3S65    S402    7,128    7,1 7    628
hter9chags                                 0        0        0        94      221      266      317      476      699      707
0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        a
hncM  BehTax                            4.847    4,900    5,131    5,715    3,666    3.289    5.065    6.650    618    7520
Taxaton                                 4,112    4,290    4,526    4,658    2,016    1.809    2.28    2,992    3,113    3,34
Nel Incoo                                735      610      60S    1.057    1,6t0    1,480    2797    3.,57    3AS    4.136



CZECH REPUBU
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SPT Teecoma    p.
tS7-U E      __at-d Rgug  N-i "OP_    Fguw      Balance Sheets
1U-UOwtNs 1658 - 1U5Co_aJm6sds
I(CSMIUL                                 1087     168      199       190      1991     12       196       1994      95      16
Fbed AsusM
Grm Fbied Aust                29.046   30.89M   32.730   34,62M   368742   41.209   47.30   564   59,94   66610
Accumad  DOpreclso           (5.0)  (6          (17,402)  (18.67)   M0   (2M3       (234)  .29,750   (369   (37,w9
Nat Fixd Asulg                13,977   14.694   15.328   15061   15.752   It=         096    23.58   2t          MM?7
Wk n PogreS                    2.368    2,352    2.410    638       3.418    5.102    5.102    6.12     _ 5.12B    5.M2
Total                         16345    17.046   17.738   10.56    19,170   22,9      26,.89   26,6    31,4   33MB
Cuweot Asuat
RAcuvaMs                       1.041    1,072    1.116    1.275    139m0    2.6       3.110    4.155    5,o    5S4
_wades                         1.108    1,242  1,070    1           1,160    18       247      2079    3.103    37
CubandBarkalanu                   0        0         0        0        0        0        (0)      15    1.9       4j26
Ot5CImlhtA$s                      0        0         0        0      756      335         0        0        0        0
Total                           14      2.314    2.186    23        3.3      4.5       A56      6AO9   Som       13637
Tol _1S                                1148    19360    19.4   21,12V    2475   27S6   3175   35M                41,619   47.n
AccutPay                        462       491      So0      599      748    1AO9    1AS0    1.8    1.O             .11
S odTeDt                       1.384    1        1.5       1.643    1,174    1.3      1,3          0        0        0
CurrxnadcndL*VTomDe               0        0         0        0       is      se6        0         0        0        0
Total                          1,67     2.13     2.096    2.242    1.94      3.409    2.841    1.2       1.610    2.011
Loni-TenD L
Lon ITeaM -d                      0        0         0        0        0    2064    4B         s5       7.43      9,14
Prowlalw                          0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Totad                             0         0        0        0        0    2064    41122    5.738   7TAN         i.145
Sh_m% Fund
at"e*fEquty                   127    15.279   1529   15279   16279   1529   15m               15.29   15279   15279
Forunpk                           0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
RwakuatioiPsuw                    0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Ba1ankq PAsews                    0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Petabnsd EanIs                 1.334    1.944    2,549    3.606    5,266    8.73      9A5     13.190   10.95   21,131
Tota                          16.613   17,223   17.28   18815s   25          s015     4811    2848    32W.4   36?410
TTd ai ds NdequitY                     18,489   19,360   19,924   2t,127   22475   27V8    31t5   35,3    41.519   4,666  
ot4



CZECH REPUBUC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SPT Teocoms sp.
167-GREaftdudRuus 16-15pmjge    mit-    Chasn I FInanci Posion
,                                       l,e,e_r17  1968    1989    1990    19        1219 199         1994        5      1996
soure.
kfm  sources:
Net OperatiNgoue              4,47    490       5131    Sim       3667    3,135    ,6Y    7,128    7.617    3.
Depre                         1070    1,13      1,200    1,269   2,319    2416    296        3,36     3.8      4.23
TOWal                         57    6,08    61    778              tO      5S62    8.04   10         11.20   12.462
Ucen    ote                     0        0        0        0        0      420      336        0        0        0
FcrdgnDebt                       0        0        0        0        0    2062    2217    A10         2,109    2,122
Don_Ct DO                        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Eully                            0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Total                            0        0        0        0        0    2,02    2,552    2109    Z109    2,12
Tal Soucs                               I17    6.088       31    7,076    6.2       8.54   1056    12.61    13,428   14,54
COreProwainne                 1,850    1.084    1.66     2.120    2,90     6151    6,151   60,28      6*0      6,70
Otbwpraramme                     0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
c6rnrnebtu, all                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Tota                          1,506   1,84    1,6        120    290    6151    6,151    68            6M       6o=
Paymud LanT em                            0         0       0        0        0        18     959      SOS      412      412
Wed coamS                                 0         0       0       94      221      268      317      476'    59        707
TOM                                    4.112    40       4,52     46568   2,016    160       228    2,6        3.113     384
WoMCq18aI                                (45)     (91)              206    1,069     (90    17        261    1,097    1.107
Total Us                               5S7    6,O        63       70       6,206    8       10SB6  12,8       11.1   12.i0
I               n C)h bCa  li    'et      0                 0        (0)      0        (0)      (0)     s15    1927    2274



CZECH REPUBUC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SPT Tewcoms s.p.
1U7-u EWuied 4pm  LS %-19SPm*Wdk.              Key Ratios
5-O2C_vt I_;IS- IonSmComJn  Pd.
FoM8.                                     1        19k8      1989     1990      1991     1992      1996     1994      1995     196
Opeatbing RIO Qn TaxeS          91.3%    960%    8.3%    89.1%    83&7%    86.%    60%    761%    78.9%    788%
OeNPrat go Mod Taxs)            4.7%    43.%    435%    452%    662%    72.4%    653%    62.3%    64SO               64.0%
ntemal Geneaon Fundst (r w   104.1%    967%    97.1%    92.0%    77.9%    72.0%   5S1I%    67.1%    95.0%    98.0%
Debt Semce Rato                   NA       NA        MA      25.7      19.0     132       10.0      a6       81        6.1
OOKayPWasi
Operang PRwnue per DEL QGc    6.013    5.97    5,949    6,660    6.899    7.372    8,222    9,070    8.162    9.136
Operating Expene  per D  Q(c    2,569    2.622    258       3,007    4.566    5.339    5,366    5.648    S.869    5.649
Opeati  km" per OM EL           3,444    3,345    3,363    3.652    2,934    2.033    2.658       3.423    3.299    3.2
Opeain  Revenue per DEL (US      440       416      395       371      242       259      288       318      321      321
OpertinepenmperOM (JS            166       183      172       168      160       187      188       198      206      205
OperanghlcomperDeL(              252       233      223       203       82        71      100       120      116       115
ExcBg Rte CKs  per US)          1368     14.36    15.05    17.95       28.S     28.S      2.S      28.5     28.5      28.
Rturn on Ne Fkxed Asses         34.7%    33.3%    33.5%    35.8%    233%    18.5%    24.0         27.9%    263%    262%
Retum on Toa Asst (ROA)         269%    25.9%    26.1%    2.3%    17.8%    14.2%    16.3%    21.1%A   19.4%    18.5%
Return on Debt (ROD)             0.0      0.0%      0.0%     4.3%    10.6%      7.2%      5.1%     6.79      72%      6.9
DebtWEquRty(D/E                  0.11     0.12      0.12     0.12     0.11      0.17     0.26       .27     027       030
Return on Common Equity (O       4.5%     6.%       3.5%     5.8%      8.4%     7.0%    11.9%     13.7%    12.5%    120%
IROE - (1-g I (ROA * (ROA - WODE)
'Km



- 63 -
ANNE 12
Page S of S
CZECH EP"UBUC
TELEC1OMUNICATIONS PROJECT
a  as used  th Fiacial Projections
1.   Caul ces are pjectd to be raised on July 1, 1993 by 50% to Kcs 1.50.
2.   Increase in nmber of puLse per DIEL: 4% per year.
3.   ExcBanp  rate: US$1 = 28.50 Kcs.
4.   Annal sa    increase: 20% in 1993; 15% in 1994195; thereafter 5%.
Salaies inude basic salaris plus 38% scial costs.
.   Ilcrease in mateal cost per D1EL: 2% per year.
6.   No subsdies to POST after 1992.
7.   Depio rate as percent at Gro Fixed Asets: 6.7%



CZECH REPUBUC
SPr TELECOMS S.P.
Inkemational (Comparison:
Number of Employees per 1000 Del
1980   1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
SPT Prapue *)-                      -             -     17.4  17.6  16.5  15.9  15.3
SPT Bratislava *) -    -      -     -     -       -     16.9  16.4        15.9  15.4
Poland         30.4   29.7   28.4  27.7  26.5   25.3  24.1  23.0  21.8  -        19.4
Hunguay        -       -      -     -     -       -     -     -     -     22.9  22.1
Greece         13.3   13.2   12.3  11.1  10.5   9.8   9.0   8.5   8.4   7.5   7.3                   0'
Spain          9.8    10.5   8.9   8.5   8.0    7.7   6.4   6.2   6.0   6.0   6.0
Portugal       23.1   21.7   20.7  19.1  17.6   16.6  15.4  13.8  12,7  11.1  9.7
Turbey         -       -      -     -     -       -     -     20.4  17.5  15.2  13.1
Ireland        40.8   33.6   32.6  29.7  26.2   23.0  20.4  18.3  17.0  15.2  13.7
Gennany        9.5    9.2    8.9   8.7   8.4    8.3   8.1   7.9   7.7   -        7.1
France         10.1   9.1    8.5   8.0   7.6    7.2   6.9   6.6   6.2   5.8   5.5
U.K.           -       12.9   12.6  12.0  11.2   10.5  10.1  10.4  10.2  9.9   8.9
Netherlands    5.7    5.5    5.2   5.1   4.9    4.9   4.9   4.8   4.5   4.7   4.6
Finland        11.7   11.4   10.9  10.4  9.9    9.6   9.2   8.8   8.4   8.0   7.6
Sweden         8.3    8.2    8.1   8.0   7.8    8.0   8.1   7.9   7.7   7.3   7.2
Carnad         10.8   10.5   10.7  10.9  8.8    8.4   8.1   7.8   7.5   7.4   6.9
USA            10.1   10.2   -      -     -      -      -     -     -     5.3   4.2
Japan          -       8.3    8.1   7.8   7.4    7.1   6.9   6.6   6.2   5.7   -
Source: Yearbook of Common Carrier, TfU (18th Edition).
*) Source: SPT Prague and SPTr Bratislavia (Construction Staff Excluded)



111    jif         g                a 
§§f     l            lii        Iyl  l     I~  III| 
.1~~~~g  
*         *- 
a      8 * 8  8      p   tw     
g ||  |3           W  FsaX  i
f f   f f|   s     e   ]§ l   1   g g   1I 



- 66 -
Annx 15
CZECH RIEPUBLIC
TELECOhLMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Calculatn of ltra Ra_te of Retn
(Fatdl twMnmt Prm, INSS- -19
Inteal Rae of Reurn
Consad Jary3% 1396 Pre
hreatn. Makten.  Conn.  Rental           Call Net Cash    Discw,    Disc
Yew                           Fee      Fee   Chae         Fw    Factor Net Cash
Row
199       6,151      615      260       76       869     (5,6)  0.6997    (3j,91)
1994     6S2A0    1,243       382      158    2,097      (4.6866   0.4896    (292)
1995     6280    1,871       452      257    6,925        (517)  0.3426       (177)
1996      6,700    2,541      466      261    9,600       166    02397         308
1997               2,541               261   11.026       8.746   0.1677      1,487
1096               2,541               261   11,933       9,653   0.1174      1.133
1996               2,541               261   12,6S5      10,604   0.0821       871
2000                2,541              261   13.883      11,63   0.0575        667
2001               2.541               261   14,931      12650   Q0402         509
2DOQ               2.541               261   16,030      13.750   0.0261       387
200                2,541               261   17.183      14903   0.0197        293
2004               2,541               261   18,393      16,113   0.0136       222
2005               2,541               261   19.662      17,382   0.0096       16
200B               2,541               261   20.994      18,714   0.0067       126
- 2007             2541                261   22392      20,112   0.0047        95
2008               2.541               261   23,859      21,579   0.0033        71
20O                2,541               261   25,398      23,118   Q0023         53
2010               2.541               261   27,013      24.733   0.0016        40
O11               2,541               261   28,708      28,428   0.0011        30
2012               2.541               261   28,708      26,428   0.0008        21
(0)
VIRhu' :..-.4Uji:.;:.. 1%...::i.j';



- 67 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PA CONSULTANTS
Abstract of Key Flndings and Recommendatons
We list below the most important recommendations from the study on
Telecommunications Sector Structure, Regulatory Framework and Tarification, carried out
during 1992 by PA and its team of subcontractors for the Federal Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic. The Study was funded by
the PHARE program of the European Commnity.
The recommendations from this study need to be put in action as soon as possible.
Issues of competence and more recently constitutional change, have already significantly
delayed planmed improvements. For telecommunications to provide effective support for the
continuing transition to a market economy, ftiher delay should be kept to an absolute
minimum.
Sector Structure
Competition in provision of telecommunications services and equipment should be
considered the normal state. Competition should therefore be allowed as soon as possible in
all areas of equipment supply and in provision of value added services.
However, the study recommends that competition in the provision of network
infrastructure and voice telephony services should be deferred in each Republic for five years
(i.e. until the end of 1997). Exclusive licenses should be granted for this period to new main
network operators evolved from the present SPTs and the telecommunications activities of
the SRs, subject to the safeguards below.
These new main network operators should be constituted as soon as possible. We
recommend that this is done as part of the separation of posts and telecommunications prior
to commercialization and privatization. The new operators could be called, for example,
'Czech Telecom' and 'Slovak Telecom'.
The deferral of competition is necessary because of the need to attract exterml
investnent funding for network development more rapidly than would occur otherwise.
Ilntroduction of competition too early would slow down the process of attracting such
funding. Open competition should be permitted after this five year period.



- 68 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
A range of safeguards should be implemented to ensure performance of the new main
network operators. These are:
*    negotiation of 'Service Obligation Agreements' with the operators to provide
incentives and sanctions against agreed performance targets;
*    organization and management changes to move the business cultures of the
operators from their present positions towards that appropriate to modem,
highly efficient telecommunications operators; and
*    change programs to improve the performance of the operators in a number of
functional areas.
Involvement on a partnrship basis of foreign telecommunications operators with the
ftre operators should be sought as soon as possible. Such partnership, based on substantial
equity participation (at the 30-40% level), is needed to esre commitment of appropriate
management and technical skills to the development of the operators. Such commitment will
be essential.
Entrepreneurial initiatives to speed up network development should be encouraged.
These should be undertaken jointly with the future operators, under their licenses. Such
uiitiatives could imclude rapid roll-out of business services (building on work already done by
the SRs) and a variety of initiatives to speed up local loop development in particular areas
(e.g. with cable television companies).
Isatve and Regulatory Framework
In the light of the new constitutional position since the June General Elections, new
Republican laws for telecommunications should be developed, based on existing Federal law.
Generlly binding regulations should be issued in each Republic by Ministerial decree
as soon as possible. These regulations should cover key areas such as licensing and type
approval procedures.
A regulatory body should be established for telecommunications in each Republic.
Each body should be headed by a Director General, who will be the telecommunications
Regulator for the Republic. The Regulator should act so as to support govermment policy but
should not be unduly influenced by day-to-day Ministerial concerns. The Regulator should
be indpendent and should derive this independence from the tm  of his or her
appointment. He or she should be appointed for a fixed term of 5 years, renewable for 3
years once only and should not be removable by Miniserial decree alone.



- 69 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
The Directors General should be supported by small regulatory units, inially of 15-
20 senior staff plus appropriate supporting rtaffs (perhaps 50-75 staff in total in each
Republic). These units could be within or uutside the competent Ministries. The regulatory
bodies should be funded by license fees. The activities of the Directors General should
follow 'due process', with appropriate accounability to Parliament.
Regulation of the radio frequency spectrum should be caried out by a separate body,
with a remit covering all users of spectrum, not just telecommunications operators.
Type approval should be ornized at two levels. Type approval policies should be
set by the Regulators. Equpment certification should be organized via appropriate test
laboratories. Advantage should be taken of opporunities for mutal recognition, so as to
minimize the cost of such test laboratories.
Major licenses for operators should be grated by the competent Ministers on the
advice of the respective Regulators (who may in practice, with their staffs, carry out unch of
the work of drfting and issuing the licenses). 'General' licenses should be used where
appropriate to minimize the need for individual licensing. General licenses should be issued
by the Regulators under delegated authority from their respective Ministers. Licenses should
be graned to legitimsze existng network operators as soon as possible.
Tarification
Current tariffs are a long way from being cost-based and are too low to attract
necessary investment into the telecommunications sector. The currendy proposed tariff
changes should be implemented as soon as possible. These proposals are at a level
appropriate to attract foreign investment.
Price control on telecommunications tariffs to end-users should be on a 'price cap'
basis applied to 'baskets' of services using the widely accepted 'CPI-X' formula. Price
controls should be applied and regulated by the Regulators in each Republic. The SPTs
themselves should set their own prices on a service by service basis within the overall
controls.
The future operators should develop programs of tarff rebalancing to move towards
cost oriented tariffs. Leased line rentals should be reduced as quickly as possible, as part of
this program, to encourage the development of value added services.
The future operators should set up internal procedures for tariff setng and approval
of tariff changes. For such poedurs to be effective, better cost data will be needed and
this will require improved management accountng systems, which should be a priority.
Improved billing and collection systems are also needed urgenty to allow sufficient
flexibility for the future operators in tariff seting, and to improve cash flows.



MAP SECTION



ASh*d ~ ~ Popse Backbone Newr,19
NETWORKd NCLDD  EXISTING        }-O                                          50           100          ISO
OPT CAL   FBER   CABLELOMSET
X                         w.'SS  v                  'v+t, JHrodec \U re
Prague                  _- <         alv  
T OG-1.r" -.1                            LPordubice                                                                                5(
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~WY
-                    COA IAL CA BLES             R VERS
GERMANY                       25' EesNE .7                                                                 0J
r   rOArJShiov           {oASio              ] X}S LOVA K
J                                                 b 8rrfi~~~~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~slovo|  
CZECH REPUBLIC                                                           E /RP UBL IC/
48'      e           FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT                                                                            4 t 
486 \ ~~Proposed Backbone Network, 1995  \ 
x R~~ROPOSED BACKBONiE   
\      ~~NETWORK INCLUDED  EXISTING                                             
} ~~~IN THE PROJECT:  AS OF 1992:  
t 6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPTICAL FIBER CABLES %  
c    )                -             -    h4~~~~~~~~~~~ICROWAVE LINKS    -ft   INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES                      r _l   J 
w   fiJ  ~~~~  ~  ~~ ~~ *                 COAXAL CABLES              RIVERS                            HU NG A R Y
10^                                                     EXCHiANGES                                                   is 8                 Z



