Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqoort No. 12846
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(CREDIT 1364-CRG)
MARCH 11, 1994
Trade, Finance, Industry & Energy Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = US dollar
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BMCs        -      Borrowing Member Countries
CDB         -      Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA        -      Canadian International Development Agency
EDI         -      Economic Development Institute
EEC         -      European Economic Community
LDCs        -      Lesser Developed Countries
MDCs        -      More Developed Countries
OCR         -      Ordinary Capital Resources
OECS        -      Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCR         -      Project Completion Report
PSIP        -      Public Sector Investment Programs
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
SFR         -      Special Fund Resources
UNDP        -      United Nations Development Program
USAID       -      United States Agency for International Development
UK          -      United Kingdom
VTF         -      Venezuela Trust Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Goenral
Operations Evaluation
March 11, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on
Third Caribbean Development Bank Project (Credit 1364-CRG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Third Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
Project (Credit 1364-CRG) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part
II of the report, contributed by the CDB, provides good additional insights on the project's
performance.
The main objectives of the project were to: channel IDA funds through CDB to small projects in
eligible Caribbean countries; and strengthen CDB to become a more effective regional development
bank. The project closed about three years behind schedule, primarily due to weaknesses in the
implementation capacity of the beneficiary countries.
The project's objectives were largely met. IDA funds were channelled to four subprojects in the
poorest countries of the region (a water supply project in St. Lucia and three roads projects in Grenada,
Dominica and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) at lower cost than IDA could have done directly. CDB's
own evaluation of the subprojects indicates that the three roads projects have economic rates of return
over 19 percent, while the water supply project has an economic rate of return of 8 percent.
CDB's financial condition and performance remains strong. During the project period, Bank staff
provided assistance to CDB in developing its lending and financial policies and in improving its capacity
to appraise and supervise projects, particularly in the transportation sector.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Institutional development achievements are rated as
modest ana sustainability as likely.
The PCR is of good quality. An audit is planned. The audit will focus on the effectiveness of
Bank lending through CDB.
Attachment
This document has s resticted distribution and amy be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
nmy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(CREDIT 1364-CRG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .................................................i
Evaluation Summary .........................................iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity..                                                                1
2. Background..                                                                       1
3.  Project Objectives and Description..                                             2
4. Project Design..                                                                  2
5  Project Implementation..                                                          3
6. Project Results..                                                                 4
7. Project Sustainability..                                                          9
8. IDA's Performance..                                                               9
9. Borrower's Performance                ..10
10. Project Relationships             ..10
11. Consulting Services              ..10
12. Project Documentation and Data            ..10
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM CDB'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                  .......... 11-13
Part III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans    ..14
2. Project Timetable                                ..15
3.    Cumulative Estimates and Actual Disbursements               ..16
4. Status of Covenants                ..17
5. Use of Bank Resources                               ..18
6.    Characteristics of Subloans Made in the Third Operation   .     .19
7.  Project Costs and Financing            ..20
8.    Comparison of Actual and Projected Loan Approvals, 1983-87  .      .21
9.    Summary of Annual Loan Approvals, 1988-92         ..22
10.   Comparison of Actual and Projected OCR Income Statements, 1983-87 ..          23
11. Summarized Statements of Income            ..24
12.   Projected and Actual OCR Summarized Balance Sheets, 1983-1987 . .26
13. Summarized Balance Sheets              ..27
14.   World Bank Group Technical Assistance Provided to CDB During 1983-93  . .. 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
(CREDIT 1364-CRG)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the performance of the Third
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) project for which Credit 1364-CRG (SDR 6.5 million)
was approved by the Board on May 17, 1983. The Credit Account was closed with the
cancellation of SDR 1,075,156.66 on August 12, 1992, about 37 months after the original
closing date. The partial cancellation was due to savings in project cost in SDR terms
resulted from the appreciation of the SDR.
Parts I and m of the PCR was prepared prepared by the Trade, Finance,
Industry and Energy Division, Country Department III, Latin America and the Caribbean
(LA3TF). Part II was prepared by CDB.
The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal and President's Reports on CDB HI
Project and related credit documents and project files; supervision reports; internal IDA
memoranda; correspondence between the IDA and CDB; CDB's appraisal reports and project
completion reports on subprojects financed under Credit 1364-CRG; and CDB's annual
reports.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB) PROJECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Objectives. The project objectives were to: (a) channel additional IDA funds to high
quality development projects in eligible Caribbean countries, at lower cost than IDA can do
directly; (b) strengthen CDB to become a more effective regional development institution; and
(c) where appropriate, build up CDB's capacity in specific sectors by providing Bank staff
assistance at various stages in the project cycle (para. 3.1).
2.    Implementation Experience.  The project's scope and timing were appropriate
considering the Bank Group's strategy, CDB's resource requirements, and the needs of Eastern
Caribbean countries at the time of project appraisal (para. 4.1). Within one month after the
Board approval, the Credit became effective. However, the final disbursement took place 38
months after the original closing date of June 30, 1989, due mainly to delays in subloan
commitments and limited project implementation capacity in beneficiary countries (paras. 5.1
and 5.2). About 16% of the Credit amount was cancelled due to savings in project costs in SDR
terms which resulted from the appreciation of the SDR (para. 5.2). About 80% of the IDA
Credit (as against the agreed minimum 60%) was allocated to the three poorest countries:
Dominica, Grenada, St. Vincent and the Grenadines. As under the previous IDA Credits, CDB
assigned to IDA its rights to subloans made from IDA resources. Consequently, this approach
is equivalent to a direct IDA Credit to the country receiving it. Prior approval of each subloan
was required. CDB presented four subprojects to IDA. CDB was reasonably efficient in
responding to comments and queries raised by IDA on subproject proposals with one exception
(Jparas. 5.2 and 9.1). Its operational and financial policies remain sound. Although there was
concern about the quality of loan portfolio (in terms of debt service arrears) when Guyana was
in arrears in servicing CDB loans, CDB managed the situation well through the adoption and
implementation of appropriate financial policies. CDB's financial condition and performance
have remained strong. CDB's own PCRs on subprojects financed under CDB III revealed some
weaknesses in project supervision (paras. 6.3 and 6.5) and the need for paying greater attention
to institutional issues at the time of project appraisal (para. 6.6). CDB management is taking
steps in the right direction to monitor and improve the quality of the portfolio (paras. 6.12 and
7.2).
3.    Results. The project has largely met its specific objectives. First, the objective to
channel additional IDA funds to high quality development projects in the poorest CDB/IDA
common member countries at lower cost than IDA could do directly was by and large achieved.
The IDA credit proceeds were used to finance four subprojects in four countries, while IDA,
due to staff constraints, might have had to limit itself to fewer projects in the same period.
Second, CDB has over time developed into an important regional development finance
institution, capable of tapping international capital markets with a "triple A" credit rating status,
and with a strong, well-knit management team and competent professional staff. Third, at the
time of appraisal, CDB project staff had limited experience in road reconstruction/maintenance
projects. Bank Group's assistance in building-up CDB's capacity in specific sectors was



- iv -
concentrated on the transportation sector through providing comments on CDB subproject
proposals under CDB III. However, the Bank Group's support for CDB's institutional
development has been broader and deeper than the exchange of views on the subproject
proposals (paras. 6.7 and 8.1, Part I and Annex 13, Part III).
4.    The Credit proceeds were used to finance four subprojects in four countries. On a
sectoral basis, the transportation sector was the largest recipient of the funds, involving three
subprojects (including two agriculture feeder road projects) which accounted for 80% of total
credit funds. One water supply subproject received 20% of total credit funds. According to
CDB's own individual PCR on each of four subprojects financed under CDB III, three
subprojects are likely to achieve an economic rate of return (ERR) higher than CDB's normal
minimum ERR of 15% for those projects financed from special fund resources (paras. 6.3 and
6.4). The remaining one subproject is likely to achieve the ERR of about 8% (para. 6.5).
5.    Sustainability. CDB has matured considerably since this Credit was made. To attain and
sustain its institutional objectives as articulated in its own strategy papers, CDB needs (as its
management recognized) to: (a) build up/maintain a healthy pipeline of projects consistent with
the latest lending strategies in major sectors; (b) ensure the quality of projects at entry (at the
time of preparation/appraisal); (c) improve control procedures and the monitoring of the
adequacy of project supervision; and (d) monitor project implementation and the quality of the
portfolio through: (i) undertaking timely comprehensive portfolio analyses; (ii) enforcing more
rigorously borrowers' compliance with loan covenants (including reporting/audit requirements,
and financial covenants); (iii) reviewing CDB's portfolio in individual countries in the context
of country assistance strategy reviews; and (iv) pursuing more actively some of the basic
elements of its lending strategies (para. 7.1). The sustainability of benefits at the level of the
subprojects financed is difficult to assess precisely. The benefit of the St. Lucia Water project
should be sustainable because the institutional strengthening is being pursued in the follow-up
project jointly financed by the World Bank, CDB, and CIDA. The benefit from the Grenada
Road Reconstruction project would be sustainable provided that adequate budget is provided to
ensure timely maintenance of the roads reconstructed under CDB III. The impending reduction
of preferential trade arrangements for bananas may affect benefits of agriculture feeder roads
projects in the Commonwealth of Dominica and St. Vincent and Grenadines. On the whole, the
majority of the benefits of the subprojects are expected to be sustained.
6.    Findings and Lessons Learned. The project has largely achieved its specific objectives.
On the whole, the project was well designed and carried out reasonably well. CDB management
recognized the need for strengthening its portfolio performance management (paras. 6.12 and
7.1). One lesson that may be learned from the experience in the project and which has already
become standard Bank practice has to do with the preparation of implementation plans and
reporting requirements. To help CDB implement effectively its plans for monitoring and
improving the quality of its portfolio, an implementation plan for a follow-up operation with
CDB should specify the timetable for preparation of comprehensive portfolio review reports, at
least once every year.



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB) PROJECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name              : Third CDB Project
Credit Number     : 1364-CRG
RVP Unit          : Latin America and the Caribbean
Country           : Eastern Caribbean countries
Sector            : Multi-sector
2.    Background
2.1   From the beginning, the Bank Group's interest in supporting CDB was based on its desire
to increase aid flows to the Commonwealth Caribbean. At first, this took the form of
strengthening CDB as an institution responsible for mobilizing resources for the region. By
1973, the Bank's management began to look upon CDB as a potential intermediary which could
relend the Bank's funds for projects too small to warrant the Bank's direct involvement.
Accordingly, the Bank's first lending operation (actually two companion loans--No. 1233 and
1234-T-CRG--totalling US$20 million) was approved in March 1976 and closed on
December 31, 1982 (three years after the original closing date). The subsequent CDB II
project--involving an IBRD loan of US$23 million (Loan 1775-CRG), an IDA credit of US$7
million (Credit 960-CRG) and an European Economic Community (EEC) Special Action Credit
of US$1 million (Credit 37-CRG)--was approved in December 1979 and closed on
December 31, 1986 (two years behind the original closing date). A PCR on the CDB I project
is dated February 27, 1985 and OED's "Project Performance Audit Report" No. 6306 on this
project, June 25, 1986; a PCR on the CDB II project dated June 28, 1991--report No.
9741--was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 15, 1991.
2.2   The CDB III project (Credit 1364-CRG, SDR 6.5 million) had basically the same
objectives as the previous two operations with CDB, except that it was restricted to the smallest
and poorest CDB member countries. The project was appraised in December 1982 and approved
in May 1983. The development credit agreement was signed on May 27, 1983 and became
effective on June 10, 1983. The final date for submission of subprojects was originally set at
June 30, 1985 but this date was subsequently extended to June 30, 1986. The credit closing
date, originally set at June 30, 1989, was subsequently extended three times to June 30, 1992
(disbursements were allowed to continue through August 12, 1992).
2.3   Subsequent to the CDB III project, two other operations were approved. In 1987, Credit
1785-CRG of SDR 4.8 million (approximately US$6.0 million) was approved for the OECS
regional vocational and technical education project. In 1990, the Bank/IDA approved a loan of
US$20 million and a credit of SDR 9.1 million (approximately US$12.0 million) as a global line
of credit to CDB (CDB V). Closing dates of these operations have not yet been reached.



- 2 -
2.4   CDB's institutional development through a series of lending operations has been a major
element of the Bank's strategy for development of the Commonwealth Caribbean. The Bank's
institution-building objectives for CDB have been conceived as a continuing process.
Accordingly, the evaluation of CDB's institutional development under the third CDB project
overlaps to a considerable extent with the Bank's prior evaluation of the CDB I and II projects.
Also, certain institutional shortcomings identified in the process of the Bank's
appraisal/supervision of the CDB I, II and III projects have been addressed during the
implementation of the CDB III and subsequent IBRD/IDA operations.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The project objectives were to:
a.    channel additional IDA funds to high quality development projects in eligible
Caribbean countries, at lower cost than IDA can do directly. The sector and
evaluation criteria would be similar to those accepted for Bank operations;
b.    strengthen CDB to become a more effective regional development
institution; and
c.    where appropriate, build up CDB's capacity in specific sectors by
providing Bank staff assistance at various stages in the project cycle.
3.2   The normal channel of Bank Group lending to the OECS members was expected to be
through CDB. Direct lending to Bank Group members of the OECS would be considered in
situations where a project was either too large to be financed by CDB or was in a sector where
CDB lacks sufficient experience. The project provided SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million
equivalent at the time of Board approval) for financing projects in agriculture, agroindustry,
manufacturing, tourism, transportation, public utilities, urban, housing, technical and vocational
education and training, health, and any other sector approved by IDA. Borrowed funds for
subprojects would be utilized by governments or passed on as loans or equity.
4.    Project Design
4.1   The project's scope and timing were appropriate considering the Bank Group's strategy,
CDB's resource requirements, and the needs of Eastern Caribbean countries at the time of
project appraisal. The Bank Group's strategy had been to help build CDB into an increasingly
effective institution and to use it as a channel for financing small projects in the Caribbean which
would otherwise be too costly for the Bank to appraise and supervise. Bank Group funds under
the first two operations with CDB had been used for public and private sector projects of the
types which the Bank normally finances. The CDB III project was for the same purposes and
objectives as the previous two operations, except that it focussed on the smallest and poorest
CDB member countries. At the time of appraisal, CDB had sufficient hard capital resources--
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)--available so that IBRD funds were not required as a part
of the CDB III project. CDB also built up a substantial pipeline of subprojects in the Eastern
Caribbean countries which would be eligible to receive resources on soft terms. At least 60%
of the IDA credit was to be allocated to the three poorest countries: Dominica, Grenada, St.



- 3 -
Vincent and the Grenadines. The project funds were to finance both fixed assets and permanent
working capital.
4.2   The credit was made available to CDB as part of its special fund resources (SFR)
operations. As such CDB would not bear the credit risk. As under the previous IDA credit,
CDB was to assign to IDA its rights to subloans made from IDA resources. Consequently, this
approach would be equivalent to a direct IDA credit to the country receiving it. Prior approval
of each subloan was required. Despite such an approach, IDA, at the formal request of CDB,
undertook an assessment of CDB's (OCR) financial position, prospects, policies, and what
measures, if any, it would need to take, so as to allow it to mobilize resources on international
capital markets in the future. Following the decision at the "Decision Meeting' on this project,
IDA appraised CDB as an institution.
4.3   Technical assistance to strengthen CDB was to be provided in the same manner as in the
previous operations. Training/technical assistance was to take the form of (i) orientation visits
of CDB officers to Bank Group Headquarters financed by CDB's technical assistance funds; (ii)
joint appraisals and supervision; (iii) Bank Group review and comments also on non-IDA
financed subprojects at the request of CDB; and (iv) Bank Group staff visits to CDB as part of
regular supervision of the project.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1   Credit Effectiveness and Subloan Commitments. Within one month after the Board
approval, the credit became effective. Two subproject proposals were submitted to IDA before
the original final date for subproject submission (June 30, 1985); and the other two, before June
30, 1986 (the revised final date). However, subloan commitments (i.e., IDA's approval of
subloans) were not completed until March 1987 when issues/comments raised by IDA staff on
the subprojects and/or loan documents were clarified.
5.2   Critical Variance in Project Implementation. The final disbursement took place in
August 1992, 38 months after the original closing date of June 30, 1989. An undisbursed
balance of SDR 1,075,156.66, which was due to savings in project cost in SDR terms resulted
from the appreciation of the SDR, was canceled on August 12, 1992. Disbursements were
completed in a nine-year period, slower than the standard disbursement profile for apex type
lending and the pace of disbursements (seven-year period) under the CDB II project. Two
factors were mainly responsible for the slower than expected pace of disbursements: (a) delays
in subloan commitments as explained in para. 5.1; and (b) limited project implementation
capacity in beneficiary countries, particularly in St. Lucia (para. 6.5).
5.2   Project Risks. Of the potential risks identified and discussed in the appraisal report, the
risk of hurricane damage had some implications as the implementation of the feeder road
subproject in Dominica was adversely affected by hurricanes (para. 6.3).



-4 -
6.    Project Results
6.1   Achievements of Project Objectives. The project has largely met its specific objectives
noted in para. 3.1. First, the objective to channel additional IDA funds to high quality
development projects in the poorest CDB/IDA common member countries at lower cost than
IDA could do directly was by and large achieved. The IDA credit proceeds were used to
finance four subprojects in four countries, while IDA, due to staff constraints, might have had
to limit itself to fewer projects in the same period. Second, CDB has over time developed into
an important regional development finance institution, capable of tapping international capital
markets with a 'triple A' credit rating status, and with a strong, well-knit management team and
competent professional staff. Third, at the time of appraisal, CDB project staff had limited
experience in road reconstruction/maintenance projects. Bank Group's assistance in building-up
CDB's capacity in specific sectors was concentrated on the transportation sector through
providing comments on CDB subproject proposals under CDB mH. However, as noted in paras.
6.7 and 8.1 and as listed in Annex 13, Part III, the Bank Group's support for CDB's institutional
development has been broader and deeper than the exchange of views on the subproject
proposals.
6.2  Impact of Specific Subprojects Financed. The credit proceeds were used to finance
four subprojects in four countries, with an aggregate (actual) subproject cost of approximately
US$22.2 million, of which IDA funding amounted to US$7.1 million or about 32% of the total,
with beneficiaries (subborrowers), CDB and other donor agencies making up the balance (Annex
7). On a sectoral basis, the transportation sector was the largest recipient of the funds, involving
three subprojects (including two agriculture feeder road projects) which accounted for 80% of
total credit funds. One water supply subproject received 20% of total credit funds. About 80%
of the IDA credit was allocated to the three poorest countries: Dominica, Grenada, and St.
Vincent and the Grenadines (Annex 6). Evaluation of performance of individual subprojects
summarized in paragraphs 6.3 - 6.5 draws on the CDB's own individual PCR on each of
subprojects financed under CDB III.
6.3   Performance of the two agriculture feeder projects was mixed. One in St. Vincent and
Grenadines (for which SDR 1.48 million or US$1.93 million' equivalent was disbursed) is
considered as successfully implemented. The completion of this project was delayed by about
one year (Annex 6) but without a major cost overrun (Annex 7). The economic rate of return
(ERR) re-estimated by CDB is 25%, slightly higher than the ERR estimated at the time of
CDB's subproject appraisal.  However, the impending reduction of preferential trade
arrangements for bananas may affect the ERR for this project. One in the Commonwealth of
Dominica (SDR 1.52 million or US$1.99 million equivalent) was completed 18 months behind
the appraisal estimate due mainly to bad weather conditions, equipment shortages and inadequate
site supervision but with no cost overrun. The ERR re-estimated by CDB is about 19% as
against 21 % estimated at the time of CDB's subproject appraisal. However, CDB's PCR on this
subproject revealed weaknesses in CDB's supervision of this project: the CDB borrower has not
maintained adequate records of expenditures on all components of the project.
1 Based on the average (i.e., US$1.307 = SDR 1) of historical exchange rates at the value
dates of each disbursement transaction under Credit 1364-CRG.



- 5 -
6.4   The road reconstruction subproject in Grenada (SDR 1.33 million or US$1.74 million
equivalent) was implemented with delays and a cost overrun. The project had to be re-designed
during construction because of the discovery of large areas of structural weaknesses, localized
areas of instability and the need for revamping the drainage system. The design change was
mainly responsible for a 17- months delay in project completion and this, in turn, resulted in a
38% cost overrun. The ERR re-estimated by CDB is about 23% as compared with 32%
estimated at the time of CDB's appraisal of the project. CDB is satisfied with performance of
the executing agency and undertook adequate project supervision through mounting four missions
between the loan signing and the start of construction and five missions during the construction
period (June 1986 to November 1987). CDB granted an additional loan out of its own resources
to help cover the cost overrun.
6.5   The water supply subproject in St. Lucia (SDR 1.10 million or US$1.44 million
equivalent) was completed without a major cost overrun but nearly four years behind the
appraisal estimate. ERR estimated at the time of appraisal was 14.2% and the re-estimated ERR
at completion is 8%. CDB was not satisfied with performance of the executing agency
(problems included a serious breach of procurement procedure in respect of the use of direct
labor for one major component of the subproject2, poor record keeping, weak project
management team, failure to act on CDB's recommendations on the repair to the pipeline, and
non-compliance with financial covenants) and consultants (ill-founded recommendations on steel
pipes, etc.). The CDB's PCR on this subproject revealed weaknesses in CDB's supervision: (i)
the rehabilitation of distribution mains and the establishment of techniques to control
unaccounted-for water have not been implemented--according to CDB's PCR, there is no
evidence that CDB took any action during project supervision on this aspect; (ii) CDB did not
adequately monitor the borrower's compliance with reporting requirements; (iii) CDB did not
effectively enforce the executing agency's compliance with requirement of keeping adequate
records of its expenditures on the project; and (iv) the executing agency has not achieved the
required rate of return on rate base; however, CDB has yet to determine precisely the underlying
reasons for failure to meet the required return on rate base. Despite all this, the objectives of
the subproject were partially met as (i) the supply of water to the heavily populated areas was
increased; (ii) the installation of water meters was increased; and (iii) the institutional
strengthening is being pursued further under the follow-up project jointly financed by the World
Bank, CDB and the Canadian Intemational Development Agency (CIDA). In sum, out of four
subprojects financed under CDB III, three are likely to achieve the ERR higher than the CDB's
normal minimum ERR of 15% for those projects financed from SFR; and one is likely to
achieve the ERR lower than the CDB's normal minimum ERR.
6.6  Impact on CDB's Institutional Development.  Following advice by independent
management consultants, improvements in CDB's organization, operating system, procedures,
and personnel development policies were made in 1984 and onwards. In 1988, CDB went
through a transition period following the departure of four key officers (including the President,
the Vice President-Corporate Services, the Director of the Projects Department). In the
aftermath, CDB built a strong, well-knit management team, mainly through internal promotion.
2 CDB did not reimburse for work done by direct labor for this component. The subproject
executing agency met the costs.



- 6 -
With a view to further improving the institution's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, the CDB
management, with the assistance of consultants, has recently initiated a process to develop
proposals for improvement in CDB's organization and operating procedures. The institution's
management style has changed considerably, with increased delegation of authority to lower-level
managers. CDB's own professional staff decreased from 85 in 1982 (when the CDB III was
appraised) to 82 in September 1993, while professional staff provided by foreign aid agencies
fell from 23 to 8. Thus, the size of CDB professional staff reduced from 108 to 90 over the past
decade. CDB's Board approved in October 1993 the creation of four professional positions.
CDB professional staff are generally competent. However, the staff needs to be supplemented
further in the next year or two taking into account the effectiveness of units under the
reorganization that would become effective shortly. At the time of the IDA's appraisal of the
CDB III project, the financial reporting of executing agencies was monitored by the Loan
Supervision Unit which was understaffed for such an assignment. On the basis of management
consultants' recommendations referred to earlier, this Unit was eliminated; and responsibility
for supervision of CDB-financed projects, which was shared between the project officers and
the loan supervision officers, was transferred to a team comprising staff with country
responsibility, during implementation of the CDB III project. However, follow-up of the
financial reporting of executing agencies as noted in paras. 6.3 and 6.5 did not improve
noticeably. CDB prepared in 1984 a project supervision manual which guided the project staff
in their supervision work (although formal adoption of this manual was delayed until 1987).
Since 1984, CDB started preparing PCRs on CDB-assisted projects. CDB's own PCRs on
subprojects financed under CDB III revealed some weaknesses in project supervision
(particularly, the monitoring/enforcing of borrowers' compliance with reporting and audit
requirements). While considerable progress has been made to upgrade CDB's project appraisal
work, CDB's own PCRs on some CDB-financed subprojects revealed serious weaknesses of
executing agencies, which suggest that CDB had yet to fully overcome appraisal shortcoming
(i.e., inadequate attention to institutional issues) identified under the earlier operations.
6.7   In 1983, IDA assisted CDB in reviewing and refining its rmancial policies on lending
rates, liquidity, capital structure, etc. In February 1987, CDB, in consultation with IDA,
established its "Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines".
6.8   At the time of appraisal, CDB's loan approvals were projected to total about US$246.0
million during the 1983-87 period (Annex 8). Although total actual (gross) loan approvals
during the same period totalled US$249.4 million--slightly higher than the projected level, about
US$53 million of loans approved were cancelled during the period. Between 1988 and 1992,
CDB's loan approvals (net of cancellations) amounted to US$416.5 million (Annex 9).
6.9   CDB's financial performance during the 1983-87 period did not meet the level anticipated
in the IDA's appraisal report (Annex 10, Part III) with the exception in 1983. Table 1 compares
projected and actual levels of OCR net income during 1983-87 and explains the main
contributing factors for differences. CDB's interest coverage ratio hovered around 1.2-1.7 times
during the 1983-87 period as against 1.5-1.7 times projected in IDA's appraisal report; the
return on average equity moved between 0.9% and 4.4% as compared with the projected 4.2-
5.5%.



- 7 -
Table 1: Comparison of Actual and Projected CDB's OCR Net Income 198347
(Amounts in US$ million)
1983              1984              1985              1986            1987
Net income
- Projected            3.4                3.6               4.6               5.4             6.3
- Actual               3.5                1.6               3.4               0.9             3.1
- Difference           +0.1              (2.0)              (1.2)            (4.5)            (3.2)
Main explanatory   1. Larger income   1. Non-accrual of   1. The same three    1. The same  1. The same
factors          from investments  interest on loans    factors as in 1984    three factors as  three factors as
than projected (see  in arrears for over  apply, with non-  in 1984 apply,   in 1984 apply,
Annex 10).        12 months (US$    accrual of interest    with non-   with non-accrual
1.6 million not  amounting to        accrual of      of interest
accrued).         US$1.9 mnillion and  interest      amounting to
loan loss provision   amounting to  US$2.4 million
2. Loan loss      of US$3.5 million.   US$2.0 million   and loan loss
provision of                         and loan loss    provision of
US$0.8 million    2. Large windfall    provision of  US$ 1.1
charged against    gain of US$4.5    US$3.2 million.  million.
1984 income.     million on foreign
exchange helped
3. A smaller loan   reduce difference
portfolio than    between projected
projected (see    and actual net
Annex 12).       income in 1985.
6.10 CDB's OCR annual net income increased significantly from around US$6.5-6.9 million
in 1988-89 to US$25.9 million in 1990, thanks to the extraordinary income of US$18.2 million
resulting from the clearing of arrears of debt service by Guyana in that year (Annex 11). In
1991, net income reached US$12.5 million, compared with US$7.7 milijon in 1990 excluding
the effect of extraordinary income in the year. In 1992, OCR net income rose to US$13.6
million. CDB's OCR profitability is satisfactory with the interest coverage ratio of 3.5 in 1992
(as against CDB's minimum requirement of 1.5) and its reserves/loan ratio of 55.3% (as against
CDB's minimum requirement of 30%). Return on equity was 8% in 1992, as compared with
its minimum requirement of 7%. CDB's OCR total assets grew at an average rate of about 7%
annually during the 1983-87 period and further at about 12 % during 1988-92 period (Annex 13).
Its liquidity position has been comfortable and its financial structure has been sound.
6.11 CDB's OCR loan portfolio totalled US$177.4 million at the end of 1992. It was
concentrated in five countries--Jamaica (25.8% if the total OCR loan portfolio), Cayman Islands
(13.8%), Barbados (12.9%), Trinidad and Tobago (9.4%), and Bahamas (8.3%). This OCR
country exposure has been within the limits set by the CDB Board. OCR exposure in Jamaica
accounted for 32.2% of CDB's net worth as against the internal maximum limit of 50%. OCR
exposure in Jamaica, Cayman Islands and Barbados combined accounted for 81.9% of CDB's
equity, compared with the internal maximum limit of 100%. With the clearing of debt service
arrears by Guyana in 1990, CDB's arrears situation improved considerably. Also, by refusing



- 8 -
to approve new loans to countries in arrears and suspending all disbursements until arrears are
cleared, CDB has managed to keep its borrowing members (with the exception of Antigua and
Barbuda) from accumulated protracted arrears. At the end of 1992, overall arrears (US$22.8
million) represented 4.3% of overall loan portfolio, compared with 8.5% at the end of 1988.
Arrears on OCR loans (US$8.9 million) accounted for 5.0% of total OCR loan portfolio. About
66% of arrears on OCR loans were related to the private sector loans while nearly 93% of
arrears on SFR loan portfolio was on public sector loans. CDB placed its loans to Antigua and
Barbuda, West Indies Shipping Corporation (WISCO-regional corporation) and some private
companies in non-accrual status; and total non-performing loans stood at US$27.2 million (or
5.1% of overall loan portfolio), including OCR non-performing loans of US$4.3 million (or
2.4% of OCR loan portfolio). At the end of 1992, CDB's overall loan loss provisions amounted
to US$22.3 million, which included specific provisions made against the Guyana portfolio during
1985-89. CDB maintained basically the same level of provisions as before even after Guyana
settled the arrears, reflecting its policy of shifting specific provisions made for the Guyana
portfolio to general provisions. CDB took legal actions against all the hardcore delinquent
private sector borrowers and put on sale of foreclosed properties. Overall, CDB managed the
arrears situation well through adoption and implementation of appropriate policies.
6.12 At the end of 1992, CDB's loan portfolio contained 299 projects of which 118 projects
were under implementation and 181 in operations. CDB also maintains lending operations with
19 financial institutions. CDB has been slow in preparing comprehensive portfolio review
reports. For example, reports covering 1983-85 were completed in 1986-87. The report for
1988 was available in 1990. Reports covering 1989-91 were completed in 1993; however, the
reports did not cover all loans subject to supervision. Due to the limited coverage of analysis
and long delay in preparation, the utility of these reports is limited. These reports revealed
weaknesses in CDB's project performance management. CDB rated 381 loans (including 27
private sector loans) contained in its loan portfolio at the end of 1988 on a scale of 1 (minor or
no problem) to 3 (major problem). On this basis, average status for all loans in 1988 was 1.56
with 77 loans (or 20.2 % of total loans) being rated as major problem loans. About 42 % of these
loans were for loans to Guyana and to Antigua and Barbuda. CDB is currently analyzing the
latest status of projects it financed. CDB has recently established a task force with responsibility
for: (i) determining possible measures for improving the speed of loan disbursement and the
quality of the portfolio (i.e., ensuring attainment of appraised benefits); and (ii) developing a
system to monitor the implementation of projects for timely identification of problems and
possible solutions, compute a portfolio quality index, and identify generic problems. In 1984,
CDB established a Post-Implementation Evaluation Unit (PIEU). PIEU has so far completed
"Post-Evaluation Reports" on 25 projects. According to these reports, seven projects largely
achieved their objectives and eight projects partially achieved their objectives. The remaining
10 projects failed to achieve the objectives.  Thus, 60%  of projects subject to post-
implementation review achieved either partially or largely their objectives. CDB management
pointed out that CDB's post-implementation reviews have so far been mainly focussed on
problem projects; and, therefore, the results of post-implementation review do not present a
balanced picture of CDB's portfolio. In sum, CDB needs (as its management recognized) to
strengthen its portfolio performance management.



-9 -
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1   CDB has matured considerably since this Credit was made; most importantly, it has
achieved access to capital markets with its triple "A" credit rating and has been
developing/updating its strategies (including its lending strategies in major sectors) taking into
account the changing environment. To attain and sustain its institutional objectives as articulated
in its own strategy papers, CDB needs (as its management recognized) to: (a) build up/maintain
a healthy pipeline of projects consistent with the latest lending strategies in major sectors; (b)
ensure the quality of projects at entry (at the time of preparation/appraisal); (c) improve control
procedures and the monitoring of the adequacy of project supervision; and (d) monitor project
implementation and the quality of the portfolio through: (i) undertaking timely comprehensive
portfolio analyses; (ii) enforcing more rigorously borrowers' compliance with loan covenants
(including reporting/audit requirements, and financial covenants); (iii) reviewing CDB's portfolio
in individual countries in the context of country assistance strategy reviews; and (iv) pursuing
more actively some of the basic elements of its lending strategies (e.g., review of borrowing
members' annual budgets to ensure that counterpart funds for CDB projects and/or budgets for
road maintenance are provided for).
7.2   The sustainability of benefits at the level of the subprojects financed is difficult to assess
precisely. The benefit of St. Lucia Water project should be sustainable because the institutional
strengthening (including steps for raising tariff) is being pursued in the follow-up project jointly
financed by the World Bank, CDB, and CIDA. The benefit from Grenada Road Reconstruction
project would be sustainable provided that adequate budget is provided to ensure timely
maintenance of the roads reconstructed under CDB III. The impending reduction of preferential
trade arrangement for bananas may affect benefit of agriculture feeder roads projects in the
Commonwealth of Dominica and St. Vincent and Grenadines. On the whole, the majority of
the benefits of the subprojects are expected to be sustained.
8.    IDA's Performance
8.1   Main Strengths and Weaknesses. The World Bank appraisal and supervision assisted
CDB in defining/refining its lending and financial policies and strategies. These efforts are
being continued as part of the ongoing fifth CDB project. Significant efforts were made by Bank
staff in assisting CDB in improving its capacity to monitor project supervision and portfolio
reviews as part of the project. So far results of these efforts are being utilized by one of two
project divisions. In addition, the Bank Group assistance to CDB included CDB staff training
visits to the Bank Group headquarters, the World Bank staff visits to CDB (other than
supervision visits), and joint Bank/CDB missions. Details of such assistance during 1983-93 are
summarized in Annex 14.
8.2   Lessons Learned. As noted in paras. 6.12 and 7.1, CDB management recognized the
need for monitoring and improving the quality of its portfolio. One lesson that may be learned
from the experience in the project and which has already become standard Bank practice has to
do with the preparation of implementation plan and reporting requirements. To help CDB
implement effectively its plans for monitoring and improving the quality of its portfolio, an
implementation plan for a follow-up operation with CDB should specify the timetable for
preparation of comprehensive portfolio review reports, at least once every year.



- 10-
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.1   Main Strengths and Weaknesses. CDB's financial condition and performance have
remained strong. It has a strong, well-knit management team and generally competent staff.
Its operational and financial policies remain sound. Although there was concern about the
quality of loan portfolio (in terms of debt service arrears) when Guyana was in arrears in
servicing CDB loans, CDB managed the situation well through the adoption of appropriate
financial policies. Although, the number of potential subprojects identified at the time of
appraisal was twelve, IDA anticipated that the number of subprojects actually financed under
CDB III could be lower than the number of potential subprojects as it was expected that CDB
might make the small number of large IDA subloans. In the event, CDB presented two
subprojects to IDA before June 30, 1985 (original final date for submission of subproject
proposals) and the other two before June 30, 1986. CDB was reasonably efficient in responding
to comments and queries raised by IDA on subproject proposals with one exception (St. Lucia
Water project). However, CDB did not rigorously enforce borrowers' compliance with
reporting and audit requirements in certain instances (paras. 6.3 and 6.5). CDB's PCRs on
subprojects financed under CDB III revealed some weaknesses in project supervision and the
need for paying greater attention to institutional issues at the time of project appraisal (para.
6.6). As noted earlier, the CDB management is taking steps in the right direction to monitor
and improve the quality of the portfolio.
10.   Project Relationships
10.1 The Bank relationship with CDB on the project has been good mainly because comments
on subprojects made by IDA staff were seen by CDB staff as constructive. Both institutions
recognized that frequent contacts, mostly on an informal basis, between the Bank Group and
CDB staff are likely to increase the effectiveness of both institutions' financing and other
activities in the Commonwealth Caribbean region through better work sharing to avoid
duplication of effort and to serve their member states better and more efficiently.  A
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the Bank and CDB concluded in conjunction
with the CDB V project has provided a framework for increased collaboration. Both institutions
are satisfied with the progress in implementing the collaborative program and have recently
agreed to revise the MOU mainly to reflect the increased role of CDB in economic work for
OECS countries under proposed CDB VI. Dialogue between the two institutions has been open
and much broader under the collaborative program than previously.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1  The credit proceeds have not been used for hiring consultants.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1  The Development Credit Agreement was appropriate for the project. The staff appraisal
report provided a framework for both the Bank and CDB during project implementation. CDB's
files on subprojects were generally well maintained and the data on performance of subprojects
were available with some exceptions. CDB has, in accordance with its policy, prepared
subproject completion reports in addition to regular supervision reports.



- 11 -
PART II
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR) PART II
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB) PROJECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
PROJECT REVIEW FROM CDB'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
The Third CDB Project (Credit 1364-CRG), involving SDR 6.5 million of IDA funds, was
restricted to the smallest and poorest CDB member countries. One consistent feature of
these countries is limited institutional capacity to design and implement projects.
Implementation delays in CDB III, eventuated, inter alia, by delays in implementation of the
sub-projects financed, should be viewed against this background.
Factual Information in Part III
Part III of the PCR adequately and accurately presents the factual information on
implementation of the project, characteristics and performance of the subprojects financed,
and CDB's financial and operational performance.
Comments on the Analysis in Part I
Achievement of Project Objectives: We concur that the project has largely met its specific
objectives.
Impact of Specific Subprojects Fmanced. We note that paras 6.3 through 6.5 of Part I
draw on the CDB's PCRs on individual subprojects financed under CDB III. However, it
should be specifically noted that delays in implementation of subprojects was a result of weak
implementation capacity in the beneficiary countries. The extended disbursement periods of
the subprojects also reflects, in our view, responsible supervision. For example,
disbursements were withheld, in some cases, because of dissatisfaction with expenditure
records.
With specific reference to the St. Vincent feeder roads project, while the uncertainties
associated with the preferential trading arrangements for bananas is a cause for concern, it is
felt that the feeder roads are essential aspects of the agricultural infrastructure in St. Vincent
(and Dominica). These roads are needed with or without bananas and indeed facilitate the
agricultural diversification process. In the case of the Dominica feeder roads project we are
not convinced that the inadequacy of records maintenance on the part of the borrower
necessarily reflects CDB's supervision weaknesses, in light of the dynamic nature of
implementation process.



- 12 -
PART II
Page 2 of 3
Impact on CDB's Institutional Development. The analysis in this section is
comprehensive, fair and balanced, though greater consideration could have been given to the
fact that CDB's financial performance during the 1983-87 period reflected conditions in
CDB's BMCs (borrowing member countries).
While the comments on preparation of portfolio review reports are well taken, it should be
borne in mind that action is taken on issues identified in supervision reports long before the
portfolio reports are prepared. The point here is that the effectiveness of portfolio
management is more related to the timely feedback of information from the project
supervisors than the timeliness of preparation of portfolio reviews.
As to paragraph 6.11 of Part I, specific mention should be made that the relatively high loan
loss provisions of US$22.3 million incorporates a significant level of general provisions (of
approximately $13.1 million). This high level of general provisions reflects the CDB's
prudent approach in these matters.
The information contained in the last section of paragraph 6.12 of Part I needs to be placed
in context in order to avoid distorted inferences being drawn on the overall quality of the
CDB portfolio. Because of staff shortages CDB's PIEU focusses its activities on problem
projects so that lesson learned could be used to avoid perpetuation of undesirable or
ineffective approaches. In fact, PIEU reports are usually prepared on all problem projects,
generally in areas where CDB intends to increase activity (e.g. lines of credit) and randomly
on only a few other areas. Thus the PIEU reports do not (and were not intended to) provide
a representation of the overall quality of CDB's portfolio. We concede that in future it may
be desirable to have a random selection of projects for post-implementation evaluation so as
to provide not only lessons on what not to do but also lessons on desirable practices. Such
evaluations could also provide a basis for the assessment of the quality of CDB's overall
portfolio.
Project Sustainability: While we concur with the views expressed with regard to actions
required to sustain institutional objectives (para 7.1 of Part I) the section is written in such a
way as to give the impression that these activities are not yet being done. In fact, most of
the actions mentioned are already intrinsically part of CDB's annual and medium term work
programs. But this raises another, more general, issue with respect to the PCR analysis,
namely that most of the comments (and suggestions) relate to CDB's operations over the
1983-1987 period. Many of these comments are no longer applicable in the context of CDB
in the 1990s.
IDA's Performance
As with the two previous operations, CDB considers the performance of IDA during the
evolution and implementation of Credit 1364-CRG to be good. Staff of the World Bank



- 13 -
PART II
Page 3 of 3
Group displayed a high degree of flexibility in addressing issues and in understanding the
particular circumstances of CDB' BMCs. No major problems were experienced in the
execution of the project.
Technical assistance provided to the CDB during the project period was appropriate to the
needs at the time.
The major lesson learned relates to the need to have broad agreement on policies, lending
strategies and appraisal methodologies in major sectors between IBRD/IDA and CDB to
ensure smooth implementation of the line-of-credit type operation.
CDB's Performance
The comments in Part I on CDB's performance are fair and objective. As indicated
previously many of the suggestions for improved performance have already been
implemented. CDB recognized the need to improve its supervision and monitoring capability
and has taken steps in this regard.
On the issue of CDB's failure to "rigorously enforce borrowers' compliance with reporting
and audit requirements in certain instances", two points should be noted:
(i)   The major "leverage" available to CDB during project implementation is the
withholding of disbursements when non-compliance is evident. However, even
in such circumstances, the decision to cease disbursements is based on staff
judgements as to the nature of the non-compliance and the likely impact on the
project should CDB funds be withheld.
(ii)   Frequently, CDB addresses previous non-compliance by insisting on action as
conditions precedent to appraisal of new loans.
Relationship Between IBRD/IDA and CDB
A close relationship has existed between the World Bank Group and CDB, since the
inception of CDB. IBRD was the executing agency for the first UNDP financed technical
assistance project (1971-1976) which funded the early stages of CDB's staff build up. CDB
has benefitted significantly from the close association over the years. The Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU), concluded in conjunction with CDB V, has solidified the relationship
and provides additional basis for collaboration.
With specific reference to relationships during implementation of the project, we concur that
they have been good.






- 14 -
pART IJII
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan No./Project Title                       Purpose                       Year of Approval        Status
LN 1233 & 1234-T-CRG    To help develop CDB as an institution and as a           1976          Closed (1982)
(CDB I)                  channel for indirect Bank lending to the
Commonwealth Caribbean.
LN 1775-CRG              To help develop CDB as an institution and u a           1979          Closed (1986)
CR 960-CRG               channel for indirect Bank Group lending to the
(CDB 11)                 Commonwealth Caribbean.
CR 1364-CRG              To help develop CDB as an institution and as a          1983          Closed (1992)
(CDB III)                channel for indirect IDA lending to the Eastern
Caribbean countries.
CR 1785-CRG              OECS Regional Vocational and Technical Education        1987             Active
(CDB IV)                 Project which is to improve the quality and quantity
of trained manpower in the OECS states.
LN 3200-CRG              To help develop CDB as an institution and a a           1990             Active
CR 2135-CRG              channel for indirect Bank Group lending to the
(CDB V)                  Commonwealth Caribbean.



PART III
-15 -                ANNEX2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                             Date         Date        Date Actual
Planned      Revised
Identification (Project Brief)                              10/82 aL
Preparation                          b/                       hi
Appraisal Mission                   12182     -              12/82
Loan Negotiations                  04/83      -              04/83
Board Approval                        -       -            05/17/83
Loan Signatures                      -        -            05/27/83
Loan Effectiveness                 08/83      -            06/10/83
Final Date for Subproject gL      06/30/85    07/22/85     06/30/86
Submission
Loan Closing dL                   06/30/89    06/14/89     06/30/92
07/10/90
H                                         07/09/91
Al      Date of Project Brief.
bl      Project was prepared during supervision of the Second Caribbean Development Bank Project.
gL      The final date for the submission of subloan authorization requests (prescntation of subloan applications) was extended from June 30, 1985 to
June 30, 1986 (on July 22, 1985).
dL      The Credit Closing Date was extended from June 30, 1989 to June 30, 1990 (on June 14, 1989), to June 30, 1991 (on July 10, 1990), and
finally to June 30, 1992 (on July 9, 1991). The last disbursement under the credit was made on August 12, 1992.



PART III
- 16 -              ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
CREDIT 1364-CRG
CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimates and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
SAR Eltimate.          Actual         Actual/ Estmate
June30, 1984                0.1                            _       _     _
December31, 1984              0.3                             _      _    _
June 30, 1985               0.6                            _       _     _
Deccmber31, 1985               1.6
June 30, 1986               2.7                            _       _     _
December 31, 1986             3.9                 0.5                 13
June 30, 1987               5.1                2.2                 43
December 31, 1987             5.9                 3.6                 61
June 30, 1988               6.6                 4.5                68
December 31, 1988             6.8                 5.5                81
June 30, 1989               7.0                 5.9                84
December 31, 1989                                 6.0                86
June 30, 1990                                  6.4                 91
December31, 1990                                  6.5                93
June 30, 1991                                   6.5                93
December31, 1991                                  6.8                97
June30, 1992                                   7.1                 100
A credit amount of US$1.16 million (or SDR 1,075,156.66) was canecled as of August 12, 1992, the date of final
disbursement. This was due to savings in project costs in SDR terms resulted from the appreciation of the SDR.



PART III
- 17 -              ANNEX
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Agremcnt/   Section                       Subject                             Status/Comments
Supplemental
Letter
Credit          2.03    Assign to the Association CDB's rights under   Complied with.
each of the subloans made from IDA resources.
2.11    Not to use the procceds of the Credit to co-   Ditto.
finance projects receiving Bank Group funds.
2.13    At least 60% of the Credit funds would be used to   About 80% of credit funds was
finance subprojects in the threce poorest countrics:   used to finance projects in the
Dominica, Grenada or St. Vincent and the      three poorest countries.
Grenadines.
3.01    Relend the Credit funds to finance projects in  Complied with.
approved sectors and in conformity with its
Charter and Statemcnt of Policy.
3.04    Project completion report.                     PCRs on subprojects financed have
been supplied with delay.
4.01    CDB's accounts and audits                      Up to date.
Supplemental             a)      CDB to prepare a comprehensive listing   Prepared with one month delay.
Letter                           of proposed manuals, operating
procedures and instructions. The listing
would also include dates by which CDB
plans to complete first drafts of these
documents.
b)      CDB to make changes in its supervision   A first draft of the supervision
procedures. A draft of procedures and    procedures was reviewed by a
of a system to be sent to IDA for     supervision mission in November
comments by March 31, 1984, CDB to    1983. The final draft, which was
put them into effect within threc months   reviewed and found acceptable
after recciving IDA's comments,      during the supervision mission of
August 1984, put into use.
Further refinement and adoption of
supervision manual took place in
1987.



PART 11
- 1 8 -          ANNEX S
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROTECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff InDUtS
(Staffweeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                Planned         Revised            Final           Comments
Through appraisal                        -               -              20.90       _
Appraisal through Board Approval         -               -               2.70
Board Approval through                   -               -
Effectiveness                    I
Supervision                              -               -               64.0
Total                                                           87.60
B. Mlssions
Stage of Project         Month/    No. of    Staff days     Specialization    Performance      Types of
Cycle                     Year    persons      in Field      Represented     Rating Status l/   Problems b/
Preparation        1.    07/82        1         12ce        Dev. Finance
H.    09/82        1          5L                                               _
Appraisal                 12/82       2          20         Dev. Finance
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval                                              Dev. Finance
through                                                        Legal
Effectiveness
Supervision        I.    10/83        1          144        Dev. Finance          n.a.           n.a.
II.    08/84       1           5              do.              na.            na.
III.    05/85      2          12dL            do.               2            Financial
IV.    02/86       2          16d/            do.               2              do.
V.    02/87        1          lSd/            do.               2              do.
VI.    07/88       1           5              do.               2              do.
VIl.    04/89       3         30d/            do.               n.a.           n.a.
Vill    07/89       3         30/             do.               n.a.           n.a.
LX.    12/89       4          26d             do.               2            Financial
X.    08/90        1           2              do.              n.a.          Others/
Xi.    04/91       1           5              do.               2              do.
XII.   07/92       2           8d/            do.                2             do.
at      Key to status: 1. Problem-free or minor problems; 2. Moderate problems; 3. Major problems-appropriate actions being taken; 4. Major
problems-problems not being addressed adequately.
hi      Key to Problem: M - Managerial; F - Financial; P - Political; 0 - Other. The financial problem refers to debt service arrears by Guyana
which was cleared in 1990.
CL      Apart from preparation of CDB 111, these missions carried out other assignments, i.e., supervision of the CDB 11 project, participation in pre-
appraisal of a proposed industrial credit project for IBRD lending to Barbados.
d/      Only part of indicated staff days in the field was devoted for supervision of CDB III because these missions had to carry out other tasks (e.g.,
supervision of CDB 11 including preparation of PCR; assessment of CDB as an institution for CDB IV project; preparation, appraisal and
supervision of CDB V, and preparation of a project for Barbados).
Credit closing delay.



PART m
ANNEX6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TllIRD CARIBBEAN DEVEOPMELT BANK PROIECT
COrD_tr *tkf Sub_ama Mk iI tlbhe Tid Oieno MDA Credit 1364-CRB)
iret rate   raG* Pwd    Repanat
IDA Subloan or Anount      to Brrow.r       (Yr)         Period        Economic Rate of Return        Proied Conultica Date
-USS'O000-                     (%)                        (Yn)
Conirmy          Approed'       Diabiued'                                               Appmisa        Actual       Appraia           Actua
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ __i_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  (% )  (% )    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Road Racosunation         Grenad              1,447       1,738             0.75                        40           32.0          23.0         06/85            11/86
(SDR 1344      (SDR 1329
million)      miuion)                                                                                    _ _
3rd Feeder icad           Dominica           2,032        1,914             0.75           5            40           21.0          19.0          12/37           06/S9
(SDR lIU7      (SDR 1513
million)     million)
Feederroada              SL Viuze,           1,954'       1,932             0.75           5            40           24.0          25.0          12/37           01/S9
(SDR 1.76     (SDR 1.47
_million)    mnuion)
l                                                                                                                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Waer mPly                 St. Lcia           1,50         1,438             0.75           5            40            14.2          3.0          03/33           01/92          u.
(SDR 1.392     (SDR 1.100
muiion)      milion)
Total                                        6,933        7,092
(SDR 6.499     (SDR 5.425
_million)    million)
1. Approved SDR amounts were convert  into USS at SDR I = US$ 1.077 which represts the exchange At the time of apprval
of Credit 1364-CRG.
2. Disbursed SDR amoutts were converted into USS at SDR I - USS1.307 which represents the average of historical exchnge rtes
at the value dates of each disbursement transaction under Credit 1364-CRG.
3    R-estimated Economic Rate of Retumn after completion of subprojects.
4 IDA authorized this subloan in August 1985; repayment of this subloan starts on October 15, 1993.
5. IDA authorized CDB to withdraw from Credit account 1364-CRG the equivalent of up SDR 1,875,952 or the equivalent in SDR of
up to US$1,953,777, whichever is lower, for this subproject.



PART III
ANNEX 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
Project Costs and Financing
(US$ Million)
PROJECT COSTS                                   FINANCING PLAN
CDB APPRATSAL ESTIMATE                       ACTUAL
CDB Appraisal                       CDB/OAst and                       CDB/OAs" and
Subproject                    Estimates     Actual    IDA       Subborrowers     Total    IDA      subborrowers      Total
Grenada:                       2,781        4,133     1,447         1,334        2,781    1,738        2,395        4,133
Road Reconstruction
St. Lucia                      6,288        6,375     1,500         4,788        6,288    1,438        4,937        6,375
Water Supply
Dominica:                       8,949       8,934    2,032          6,917        8,949    1,984        6,950        8,934
Third Feeder Roads
St. Vincent & Grenadines       2,442        2,7102    1,954          488         2,442    1,932         778         2,710
Feeder Roads
Total                          20,460       22,152    6,933        13,527        20,460   7,092       15,060        22,152
1.    Other Agencies.
2.    According to CDB's own PCR on this subproject, actual (historical) cost of this subproject amounted to US$2.37
million equivalent. The figure (US$2.71 nillion) shown in the table reflects the appreciation of the SDR.



- 21 -
PART t1 33
ANNSX 8
PROJeCT COMPLUTIOC Rxtots
THIRD CARI3BERN  B3EONM   ANK PROTECT
CoawaISaR   OP O C2MA  AM PRLOAN APPROVaLS
(1983-1987)
(Amounts in Us$ million)
Years ended December 31   1983    1934    1935  1956        1987  Total
OCR Projected               24.0   18.0    20.0  22.0       24.0  108.0
OCR Actual (Grous)'         30.5   17.3    22.8  24.1       12.0  106.7
Differonce + (-)          6.5  (0.7)      2.8   2.1   (12.0)  (1.3)
SFR Projected               23.0   25.7    27.6  29.7       32.0  138.0
S_R Actual (Gross)          15.8   43.9    19.0  35.9       28.1  142.7
Difference + (-)        (7.2)   18.2   (8.6)   6.2    (3.9)       4.7
Total Projected             47.0   43.7    47.6  51.7       56.0  246.0
Total Actual (Gross)        46.3   61.2    41.8  60.0       40.1  249.4
fi1ff.tmwn. + W          n _7)   17   5 (W-    R3      (1 lQ C)    -
Source: CD8 Annual Reports
I Includes Venezuela Trust Fund (VTF) operations.



- 22 -
pART III
ANNEX 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL LOAN APPROVALS
BY SOURCE OF FUNDS, 1988-1992
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992    1988-92
usSm   US$m   USSM   US$Sm   US$S    US$m
(No.)  (No.)  (No.)  (No.)  (No.)    (No.)
OCR (Gross)                  13.0   43.5   51.0   75.3   52.5        235.3
SFR (Gros.)                  52.9   32.0   63.7   32.9   26.2        207.7
Total (Gross)                65.9   75.5  114.7  108.2   78.7        443.0
(No.)                        (17)   (16)   (17)   (18)   (12)         (80)
Cancellations                 0.3    2.4   14.5    0.3    9.0         26.5
Total (Net)                  65.6   73.1  100.2  107.9   69.7        416.5
Source:   CDB Annual Report



- 23 -
PART III
ANNEX 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANS PROJECT
ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES (OCR)
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND PROJECTED OCR INCOME STATEMENTS 1983-1987
(US$ million)
Years ended December 31              1983     1984       1985       1986      1987
Income from Investments:
Actual                         S.S       4.9       4,5        3.9        2.7
Projected                      4.8       4.1       3.7        3.8        4.0
Income from Loanst
Actual                         5.7       4.6       6.0        6.4        8.9
Projected                      6.1       7.9      10.1       11.9       13.7
Total Income:
Actual                        11.4      10.2      15.5       11.0       12.2
Projected                     11.7      12.9      14.6       16.5       18.4
Financial Expenses:
Actual                         5.2       4.9       S.S        4.9        5.3
Projected                      5.8       6.7       7.4        8.3        9.1
Administrative Expenses
Actual                         2.5       2.9       3.1        2.0        1.9
Projected                      2.6       2.5       2.6        2.8        3.0
Net Income:
Actual                         3.5       1.6       3.4        0.9        3.1
Projected                      3.4       3.6       4.6        5.4        6.3



- 24 -
PART II1I
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION RFPORT
THIRD CARIBBZAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized statements of Income, 1983-1987
(Year Ended December 31)
(Millions of USS)
Audited
1983   1984   1985   1986    1987
Ordinary Capital Resources
Income from loans & mortgages            5.7    4.6    6.0   6.4        8.9
Income from investments                  5.5    4.9    4.5   3.9        2.7
Others                                   0i 2    L 02 7L 5A
Total income                         11.4   10.2   15.5  11.0       12.2
Financial expenses                       5.2    4.9    5.5   4.9         6.1
Administrative expenses                   2.5    2.9    3.1   2.0        1.9
Provision for losses                     0 2    0 8    35    2L           11
Total expenses                        7.9  L8 6 i 1211 1              Li
Net income                            3.5    1.6    3.4   0.9        3.1
Special Fund Resources ISFR)
Operations
Income from loans & mortgages            7.0    6.6    6.6   7.3         8.5
Income from investments                  5.5    5.6    5.1   5.0        4.4
Income from grants                       3A    AA       ILI 6 8 .L         -
Total income                         16.1   16.8   15.5  20.5       12.9
Charges on contributions                 2.8    3.4    3.4   3.3         3.3
Administrative expenses                   4.3    3.4    2.9   4.3        4.4
Technical assistance                      3.8    4.8    3.8   8.3          -
Provision for losses                     0.8      -0    2.0   1.4        0.9
Others                                                                   ILI
Total expenses                       I& 7           I1 6   122
Net income                            4.4    5.2    3.4   3.2        4.0
Venezuelan Trust Fund Operations
Income from loans                        0.8    0.7    0.6   0.7         0.6
Income from short-term investments       1.0    0.7    0.6   0.5        0.4
Exchange loss                            0.1       -      -      -         -
Provision for losses on loans               -    I      0.4   0.4          -
Net income                            1.6    1.4    0.8   0.8         1.0



PART SII
- 25 -                         ANNEX 11
page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Statements of Income, 1988-1992
(Year Ended December 31)
(Million. of US$)
Audited
1988   1989   1990   1991    1992
Ordinary Capital Resources
Income from loans                          10.5   12.1   29.2    14.3    15.9
Income from investments                     2.7    3.0    4.3       4.6     5.1
Other                                       L2      O 9    I"      QL 9     0
Total income                            15.7   16.0   34.6    19.8    21.8
Borrowing expenses                           5.4    5.2    5.1      4.8     5.5
Administrative expenses                      1.9    2.0    2.0      2.5     2.7
Provision for losses                         1. 9     1    16       QU1     Q..5
Total expenses                           2Li    9.1   8L7        7LA 4    L8
Net income                               6.5    6.9   25.9    12.4    13.6
SFR Operations
Income from loans & mortgages                8.7    9.3   18.2    11.2    10.8
Income from investments                      5.1    8.9    9.0      6.7     5.9
Other                                        0i 2    i      Li 0i 1 
Total income                         14.0   18.3   27.3    18.0    16.8
Charges on contributions                     2.6    2.7    2.7      2.8     3.0
Administrative expenses                      4.6    4.6    5.4      6.1     6.3
Provision for losses                         1.1    1.9    0.9      0.5   (0.1)
Other                                        1.0    0.9    1.7      10      1 0
Total expenses                           9 3   10.1   17.L       I4L   1Ll
Net income                               4.7    8.2   16.6       7.6     6.6
Venezuelan Trust Fund Operations
Income from loans                        0.6    0.5    1.2      0.4      0.4
Income from short-term investments       0.4    0.5    0.5      0.4      0.2
Commissions, exchange, provisions          =            U.1            ( i0L11
Net income                            1.0    0.9    1.6      0.8      0.7



PART I IL
ANNEX l2
PROJEMCSooKPITroN RZPORT
THIRD caISSZAN DEVtLOPNIEW DAN PROJMCT
Proiectod aid Actual OCR S _aris2d Dalance Shoots, 1983-1987
(As of Deceber 31)
(Kllloos of US$)
1983          1984           1985         1984          1987
Assets                              Proi. Actual  Proj. ctual Proi. Actual Prol. actual Proi. Actual
Cash  Lainvestment                 56.9   46.0   46.7   46.2  46.9   41.9  48.5   35.3  51.1   37.4
Loans    secondary mortgages       75.6   62.8   96.7   70.1 113.6   76.1 127.5   90.9 140.2  108.6
Receivable from members            14.5   18.1   18.6   22.9  20.9   24.6  23.2   23.8  24.9   23.9
Other assets (net)                  0L.1   1i4     L 12.2               la1.   9.J IL2   10.7  IL&   i.5I
Total assets                   157.1  140.3  174.2  148.8 193.5  152.4 211.5  160.7 228.8  180.4
Liabilities and Eauitv
Borrowings & other liabilities    77.7   61.4   82.7   64.1  93.1   59.0 101.2   62.0 108.8   73.3
Capital & reserves                  9.   Z7.0   l.    84.7 1Q.4  923. 110,3   98.7 120.0  107.1
Total liabilities & Equity    157.1  140.3  174.2  148.8 193.5  152.4 211.5  160.7 228.8  180.4



- 27 -
PART III
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
summarized Balance sheets, 1983-1987
(As of December 31)
(Millions of US$)
Audited
1983  1984  1985   1986  1987
Ordinary Capital Resources
Cash & investment                         46.0  46.2   41.9  35.3  37.4
Loans & secondary mortgages               62.8  70.1   76.1  90.9 108.6
Receivable from members                   18.1  22.9   24.6  23.8  23.9
Other assets (net)                        13.4   9.6   9j8  10.7  10.5
Total assets                          140.3 148.8  152.4 160.7 180.4
Borrowings & other liabilities            61.4  64.1   59.0  62.0  73.3
Capital & reserves                        79.0  84.7   93.4  98.7 107.1
Total liabilities & capital           140.3 148.8  152.4 160.7 180.4
SFR Operations
Cash & investments                        56.9  53.2   55.1  66.3  60.0
Loans & secondary mortgages              185.4 188.2  199.8 212.9 244.6
Receivable from contributors               7.4  19.2   31.4  46.0  75.9
Other assets (net)                         5.9   9.1    9.8  727   4.2
Total Assets                         255.6 269.7  296.1 332.9 384.7
Liabilities                                3.3   6.2    8.9   8.1   7.6
Contributed resources                    222.4 246.1  270.8 304.6 352.0
Reserves                                  29.9  17.4   16.4  20.1  25.1
Total liabilities & reserves         255.6 269.7  296.1 332.9 384.7
Venezuelan Trust Fund Operations
Cash & investments                         6.7   6.2    5.9   5.9   4.7
Loans                                      9.5   9.8    8.6   7.1   7.5
Other assets (net)                         1.2   0.8    0.4   0.3   0.2
Total assets                           17.4  16.8   14.9  13.3  12.4
Contributions (net of repayments)         16.2  15.8   14.8  13.1  12.0
Reserves                                   1.2   1.0    0.1   0.2   0.4
Total liabilities & reserves           17.4  16.8   14.9  13.3  12.4



PART IIT
-28 -              ANNEX 13
page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Sumarised Balance Sheets. 1988-1992
(As of December 31)
(Millions of US$)
Auditod
1988   1989   1990    1991    1992
Ordinary Capital Resources
Cash & investment                         36.1   35.9   57.8    57.5    79.0
Loans & secondary mortgages               123.1  131.4  143.7   153.5   165.7
Receivable from members                    22.4   24.8   24.2    32.7    39.7
Other assets (net)                         1025   12i             IL 1I2 1  11.5
Total assets                          192.1  204.4  238.9   257.2   295.9
Borrowings & other liabilities            72.9   74.8   78.1    71.6    85.4
Capital & reserves                       1192        6 12.6  160.8   185.6   210.5
Total liabilities & capital           192.1  204.4  238.9   257.2   295.9
SF Ooerations
Cash & investments                         98.6   98.9  104.0   111.3   122.0
Loans & secondary mortgages              257.7  280.9  330.2   339.8   338.8
Receivable from contributor.               58.7   84.5   76.4   101.3    96.8
Other assets (net)                          8 L7    Li    1L       L I    I&18
Total Assets                          423.7  473.6  517.9   559.7   576.1
Current liabilities & other                17.4   22.2   18.7    20.9    59.3
Contributed resources                    379.7  416.5  446.7   478.5   451.4
Reserves                                  26 6   34.9   52j5    60.3    65 4
Total liabilities & reserves          423.7  473.6  517.9   559.7   576.1
Venezuelan Trust Fund Ooerations
Cash & investments                          4.9    4.7    4.6      4.4      4.3
Loans                                       6.6    5.9    5.0      4.2      3.6
Other assets (net)                          0.2      2 2LI  I      L2       0I
Total assets                           11.7   10.8    9.8       8.8      8.0
Contributions (net of repayments)          11.1   10.3    9.3      8.5      7.7
Reserves                                    0       LI 0i 5i 05     .3      0
Total liabilities & reserves           11.7   10.8    9.8       8.8      8.0



- 29 -                        PART m
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT 1364-CRG
World Bank Group Technical Assistance Provided to CDB
During 1983-93
1.    Training Visits to World Bank Headquarters
January 1983 - R. Mullings, Treasurer and Controller and M. St. Rose, Director of
Economics and Programming, one week review of financial policy issues and computer financial
forecasting model.
April 1984 - R. Gangal, for two days to discuss IBRD loans management system.
March 1986 - N. Grainger, Acting Treasurer and Controller, J. Scotland, Senior
Manager-Corporate Policy and Planning, and E. Lindekens, Corporate Planner, for two days
to discuss policies on liquidity, borrowing, net income adequacy, valuation capital, investments
and cash holdings, currency pooling, etc.
October 1986 - Y. Moses Grant, Project Review Officer, for two days to discuss Bank's
lending policies and issues relating to pending IDA subprojects.
1986 - A. Bobb, Assistant Controller, and C. Henry for two days to discuss management
information system.
1986 - 0. Gill, legal counsel, for three days to discuss possible standardization of legal
documents and related matters.
1986 - M. Hooper, Loan Administrator, for two days to discuss portfolio information
system.
August 1990 - M. St. Rose, Vice-President (Operations), for one day to discuss proposed
CDB's policies on lending to the private sector, with World Bank and IFC managers and
officers.
June 1991 - M. St. Rose, Vice-President (Operations), N. Grainger, Treasurer and
Controller, J. Scotland, Deputy Director, Corporate Policy and Planning (CPP), J. Dellimore,
Chief Project Officer, CPP, for five days to get acquainted with the World Bank policies and
procedures regarding financial management (borrowing, investment, liquidity, opportunities for
hedging, interest rate determination, currency pooling, etc.), accounting and financial matters
relating to arrears, budget and monitoring system, designing and financing poverty alleviation
projects/programs, designing human resource development programs, and incorporation of
environmental issues in development financing.
October 1991 - E. Weille-Halle, CDB's Environmental Expert, for five days to discuss
environmental impact assessment procedures.



- 30 -
June 1992 - N. Grainger, Treasurer and Controller, and I. Wilkinson, Assistant General
Counsel, for three days to discuss issues relating to interest rate swaps.
May 1993 - C. Dixon, CDB Environmental Officer, for two weeks for orientation on the
World Bank's environmental requirements and EA best practices.
2.    World Bank Staff Visits to CDB (not related to regular supervision missions and/or new
lending operations to CDB)
1985 - J. Rischard, Division Chief-Financial Policies, and S. Rajashingham, Financial
Offkcer, for 7 days to help CDB identify/evaluate various options for dealing with protracted
debt service arrears by Guyana.
November 1990 - G. Smith, Division Chief (LA3IN), for one day to discuss with W.
Lawrence, Deputy Director for Infrastructure Projects, possible ways of collaboration in
financing infrastructure projects and in strengthening CDB's staff capability.
October 1991 - R. Nallari, Economist (LA3C2), for two weeks to assist in the workshop
(on "Macro, Micro Dimensions of Policy Formulation and Sectoral Planning--Agriculture and
Tourism) in the area related to agriculture.
3.    Joint Missions of IBRD/CDB staff
1987-89 - Joint missions for SAL operation to Guyana.
1988-89 - Joint missions (preparation/appraisal) for St. Lucia Water Supply project
financed by World Bank Group, CDB, and CIDA.
1991-92 - Joint missions (preparation/appraisal) for Barbados Second Road Rehabilitation
project.
1993 - Joint missions for the Guyana Water project.
4.    Desk Reviews of CDB projects not rmanced with the World Bank resources.
July 1986 - Comments on CDB's appraisal report on Caroni Five-Year Diversification
Programme
5.    Others
Provision of the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
Assistance to CDB staff in formulating: (i) lending strategy papers in major sectors
covering the infrastructure, industry, tourism, and agriculture sectors and indirect lending
through financial intermediaries; (ii) environmental guidelines; and (iii) guidelines on emergency
recovery assistance.



