Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4338-CRG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CARIBBEAN REGION
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJEC
April 28, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS _/
US$1.00          =         BD$2.00       (Barbados)
=        B$ 2.00       (Belize)
=        EC$2.70       (Eastern Caribbean) 2/
=        G$ 2.55       (Guyana)
=        J$ 1.78       (Jamaica)
=        TT$2.40       (Trinidad and Tobago)
=        B$ 1.00       (The Bahamas)
LIST OF ACRONYMS
CARICOM          Caribbean Community
CARIFTA          Caribbean Free Trade Association
CDB              Caribbean Development Bank
CDF              Caribbean Development Facility
CFC              Caribbean Food Corporation
CG               Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development
DFCs             Development Finance Companies
EEC              European Economic Community Special Action Credit
ECCM             East Caribbean Common Market
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
LDCs             Less Developed Countries
MDB              Multilateral Development Bank
MDCs             More Developed Countries
PATU             Project Administration and Training Unit
OCR              Ordinary Capital Resources
OECS             Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
SFR              Special Fund Resources
UK               United Kingdom
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
USAID            US Agency for International Development
VTF              Venezuelan Trust Fund
1/ As of January 1983.
2/ Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, Anguilla,
St. Lucia, and St. Vincent.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No
I.      INTRODUCTION              ...............................1.............. 
II.       THE ECONOMIES  . ............ ............................ .                               2
III.       THE  SECTORS  ..............................................                               5
The Agricultural Sector                  ................................. .               5
The Industrial  Sector  ....... .............................                              5
The Tourism Sector                ...................................... .                 6
The Transportation Sector ......   6
The Public Utilities Sector  .....                    .........................            7
The Financial  Sector  .......................................... .                        7
IV.       THE  CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT  BANK  ......                 .............. .........          9
Shareholders  .............. .... ...........................                              9
Objectives                 ................................                               9
Policies  ..            ...............................................                    9
Board  of Governors  .......                 ................................            11
Board  of Directors  ..........................................                          11
Management  ...............................................                              11
Organization  ............. . ...............................                            12
Staffing  ....            .............................................                  13
Operations  .................................................. o......                   13
Project  Identification  and Promotion  ..............                    ...      13
Project Appraisal  ....................................                            14
Project  Implementation  and Supervision  .......                     ........     14
Technical Assistance  ....  ................... .... ...... .                      15
Procurement  and Disbursement  .....                   ....................         15
Accounting  and Auditors  ..............................                            15
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Barbados during December 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. Parker and
Jones, of the LAC Regional Office.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.     CDB's PAST OPERATIONS AND FUTURE LENDING PROGRAMS  ........                  16
CDB's Past Operations  . ............... ...  ................ .    16
Operations by Type of Funding ...a .......          ..............     16
Operations by Sector ....               .  ............................ .    17
Annual Performance . ........           ... . ....................... .    17
Quality of Portfolio .......... ......... .............................  19
Experience Under the Previous Projects  ........              ...........    19
Technical Assistance to CDB ..........   ** ....                       20
Future Lending Program ...... .. ... .  ....  ........... .... ..           21
Operations by Type of Fund .         .. .........................    21
Sectoral distribution ...... .. ....................                   21
Distribution by Country ..*............................                22
VI.     FINANCIAL POSITION, PROJECTED FINANCIAL
RESULTS AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS  .........................                 23
Financial Position and Past Financial Results  ............                 23
Projected Financial Results  ..............................                 25
Special Fund Resources  . ............................. .... .    27
Projected Financial Condition ............................                  28
Trust Fund Operations  . ............    . ......................    28
VII.     THE PROJECT ..............................................                   29
Objectives  ..............................................                  29
IDA Eligibility and Allocation           ............ ..........            29
Credit Features .............  .....*...                                    30
Administration Fee ........ ... .    .......... .*....                 30
Commitment Fee .*   . . ...            .       ..     *....   *...     30
Assignment of Rights  . ........ ......................                31
Disbursements.                  .    ................. . ........           31
Procurement                   .............. ........    32
Benefits and Risks ... ....*....                     ..... ..... ...        32
VIII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .               ...... ...           ...       33
Agreements.. .  ............  33
Recommendations ....                      .      ........ . .........    33
ANNEXES
I.     Table 1.  Basic Indicators CARICOM Countries
Table 2. Basic Indicators for OECS Countries
II.     OCR - Statement of Subscriptions of Capital Stock
and Voting Power



- iii -
III.   Principal Loan Terms and Conditions
IV.   Board of Governors and Directors
V.   Organization Chart
VI.   CDB Past Operations
Table 1. Distribution of Loans Approved by Sector and by Fund
(1970-1982)
Table 2. Characteristsics of Subloans made in the Second Operation
VII.   World Bank Technical Assistance Provided to CDB since Effectiveness
of Loan 1775-CRG
VIII.   CDB-Historical Financial Statements
Table 1. Summarized Balance Sheets 1978 to 1982
Table 2. Summarized Statements of Income 1978 to 1982
IX.   CDB-Financial Projections (1982-1986)
Table 1. OCR, Forecast Statement of Income and Expenses
Table 2. OCR, Forecast Balance Sheets
Table 3. OCR, Forecast Cash Flow
Table 4. SFR, Financial Projections
X.   Assumptions used in Financial Projections
XI.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan and Credit
XII.   Pipeline of IDA Projects for 1983 and 1984
XIII.   Project File
MAP






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a Third Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
Project, provides an assessment of the CDB and recommends an IDA credit of
SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million).
1.02      The CDB is an associate institution of the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM). It was set up in 1970 by sixteen founding regional members, and
two non-regional members -- Canada and the United Kingdom. Subsequently
Anguilla joined as a borrowing member along with Venezuela, Colombia and
Mexico as non-borrowing regional members. The last three cannot borrow from
CDB for the first five years of their membership, and afterwards their
borrowing is limited to the amounts they have paid in. The United States,
though not a member, has provided technical and financial assistance to the
CDB since its establishment. CDB's main objective, according to its Charter
is to ...contribute to the harmonious economic growth and development of the
member countries in the Caribbean... and promote economic cooperation and
integration among them, having special and urgent regard to the needs of the
less developed members (LDCs) of the region".  The more developed countries
(MDCs) are expected to give the LDCs preferred access to CDBs resources,
especially its soft funds.
1.03      Since 1970, CDB has played a commendable role in meeting the
objectives stipulated by its Charter in the changing environment of the
Caribbean (Chapter II). By the end of 1982, CDB had mobilized US$566 million
in resources and approved US$380 million in loans and grants.
1.04      The Bank has maintained a close relationship with the CDB since its
inception. CDB's staff strength was built up by the recruitment of highly
qualified staff, particularly West Indians, under the first UNDP financed
technical assistance project for which the Bank was the executing agency from
1971 to 1976. In 1976, the Bank approved two loans (1233-CRG - US$17.0
million; 1234-CRG (Third Window) - US$3.0 million) to CDB to assist it in
financing public and private projects in the agricultural, industrial,
tourism and infrastructure sectors. The main objectives of the loans were to
build CDB into a viable institution and use it for channeling funds to small
projects in the Caribbean and thus play an important role in the development
of the small islands and the economic integration of the region. To build up
CDB's technical capability in all important sectors, the IDF division has
concentrated its efforts on institution building and industrial lending,
while the other LAC projects divisions have provided significant technical
assistance to CDB's projects staff. These efforts continued under the second
operation, which included a loan and two credits (1775-CRG - US$23 million;
960-CRG - US$7 million; 37-CRG - US$1 million as agent for the EEC) signed in
January 1980. The proposed third operation would involve only a second IDA
credit and would build on the accomplishments of the first two operations.
CDB has at the present time sufficient hard capital resources available, so
that IBRD funds are not required as a part of the proposed project.



II. THE ECONOMIES
2.01      As shown in Map IBRD 10611R, the Commonwealth Caribbean consists
of:
(a)  Eleven independent countries: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago;
(b)  One United Kingdom (UK) Associated State: St. Kitts/Nevis; and
(c)  Five UK Dependencies: Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Cayman
Islands, Montserrat, and Turks and Caicos islands.
2.02     The membership of the Caribbean Development Bank is comprised of:
the Commonwealth Caribbean countries and Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela - all
of which are designated as regional members and Canada and the U.K. which are
non-regional members.
2.03      The countries listed in paragraph 2.01 (a) and (b) and Montserrat
are members of the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM)
established in 1973 to replace the Caribbean Free Trade Association
(CARIFTA). Bahamas is not a member of the Community or of the Common
Market, although it contributes to the budget of the CARICOM Secretariat. In
CARICOM, Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago are referred to as
the More Developed Countries (MDCs) and the others as the Less Developed
Countries (LDCs).
2.04      The LDCs except Belize established the Eastern Caribbean Common
Market (ECCM) in 1968. In 1981, the ECCM countries signed an agreement
establishing the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) with a view
to achieving deeper integration of their economic, judicial, political,
diplomatic and monetary relationships. These countries have, since 1954,
used a single currency (the E.C. dollar) which is issued and managed by the
East Caribbean Currency Authority (ECCA). ECCA is also a clearing house for
interbank settlements in EC dollars and acts as an agent for its members with
the IMF. Its members converted ECCA into a true central bank on April 1,
1983.
2.05      Annex I gives some basic economic indicators for the CARICOM
countries and Bahamas - using the annual averages for the years 1979-1981.
The population of this group of countries was 5.4 million with a total GNP of
US$11.8 billion in 1981. Their average annual GNP per capita was US$2,200.
MDCs accounted for 86% of the population and 94% of the GNP. The seven OECS
countries had a population of only 561,000 and a land area of 1,074 square
miles. As a group their GNP totalled US$529 million. Given their small
size, high degree of interdependence and limited creditworthiness, these
seven countries were grouped as a unit for eligibility purposes as part of
the first IDA credit. The conditions arguing for IDA eligibility for the
OECS countries remain unchanged, though their income per capita as a group
has moved higher than the standard cutoff point. A more detailed
justification for their eligibility is provided in para. 7.04.
2.06      Within the framework of the Treaty which established CARICOM, the
region has sought to: establish a free trade area with a common external
tariff, adopt common policies for coordinated regional development, negotiate



- 3 -
external trade agreements on a joint basis, and develop a special regime to
facilitate a faster rate of development of the LDCs. The Treaty also
provides for cooperation in socio-economic and technical areas such as
health, education, culture, sea and air transportation, meteorology and for
coordination of the foreign policies of its independent members. The Common
Market regime has suffered set-backs in recent years as a result of economic
difficulties experienced by nearly all its members and of the depressed state
of the international economy. Attempts are repeatedly being made by CARICOM
to intensify regional integration. In this connection, New Rules of Origin
were introduced in June, 1981. The objective of this change was to increase
local value-added in production for regional trade and to achieve foreign
exchange savings.
2.07      There has been a growing awareness of the need for greater foreign
exchange earnings, and for diversification of local economies by paying
greater attention to the role of manufactured exports. However the high
average level of effective protection found in all the CARICOM countries, and
in particular the MDCs, has serious implications for the future growth and
efficiency of the countries' industrial sector. In particular, the high
effective protection granted at both the national and the regional level, has
generated an equally high anti-export bias for exports outside CARICOM, the
area to which a large expansion of nontraditional exports might otherwise be
feasible. The widespread use of tariff exemptions for raw materials and
capital goods as a production incentive favors the use of imported raw
materials instead of domestic resources, and of imported capital goods
instead of labor. Also, the combination of high tariff rates on final
products and tariff exemptions on their inputs encourages the establishment
of firms that generate a small percentage of value added. Thus one of the
major incentive systems (also in terms of its fiscal cost) has economic
effects which are contrary to regional objectives of promoting the use of
domestic raw materials and of creating employment.   In order to achieve
these objectives, CARICOM governments must make substantial changes in the
structure of their incentives. The Bank and the other CG sponsoring
institutions are discussing these issues with the Commonwealth Caribbean
Countries as well as the forms of external support they may require to
implement these changes over a period of years.
2.08      Traditionally the region has been highly dependent on imports.
Increased domestic borrowing by governments from the Central Banks and
Monetary Authorities in order to continue development projects and maintain
employment and incomes has excerbated pressures on the balance of payments of
the countries. Combined with a fall in export earnings due to the world
recession, this has led to a significant worsening of their balance of
payments situations.
2.09      The nature of the LDC economies is especially noteworthy.  They are
essentially very open, one-product economies which are too small for
efficient industrial production for the domestic market. These
"mini-economies" possess limited natural resources, lack "critical mass", and
consequently can only benefit from economies of scale associated with export
sales. Moreover, there is a dearth of trained human resources, the countries
are extremely dependent on external economic and financial assistance, and
are susceptible to natural disasters (hurricanes, floods, volcanic eruptions)
which at times cause widespread devastation. As producers of primary
agricultural commodities, they are susceptible to the vagaries of
international markets and sharply fluctuating terms of trade.



- 4 -
2.10      The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CG)
was established under the chairmanship of the Bank in December 1977 to
mobilize external resources to alleviate the serious economic and balance of
payments problems faced by these states. As a result, a Caribbean
Development Facility (CDF) was organized to provide local financing to
implement development projects. Public sector investment programs are
presented at the CG's annual meetings in order to attract the financial
support of the international community. As part of this effort the IMF and
the Bank have provided major support to the MDCs by means of standby
facilities, program loans and SALs.
2.11      Several new undertakings were initiated by the CG in 1981 to
benefit CG members in general and the OECS countries in particular. A
project identification and development facility (CPDF), sponsored by UNDP,
was established for an experimental three-year period with the Bank's IFC
affiliate acting as executing agency. Its purpose is to identify, promote
and prepare medium size (US$.5 - 5 million) projects in the agro-industry and
manufacturing sectors. These projects are then presented to financial
institutions for possible financing. Sponsors of prospective projects are
assisted by CPDF in obtaining equity and loan financing as well as
identifying appropriate technology, key personnel, technical partners and
export markets. So far the facility has been instrumental in attracting
financial support for six projects totaling US$17 million of which US$5.5
million is being provided by outside sources in direct response to the
facility's intervention. In addition CPDF has devoted significant resources
to providing technical assistance to governments, organizations and
businessmen.
2.12      In an attempt to deal more directly with the special problems of
its OECS members, the CG recently established an interagency resident mission
(IARM) in Antigua which will coordinate its work with the Economic Affairs
Secretariat of the OECS also located there. The IARM is managed by the Bank
and staffed with representatives of the CDB, IMF, IDB, OAS and UNDP. The
IARM is expected to go out of existence after three years, with most of its
functions then assumed by the Economic Affairs Secretariat. The mission was
established to (a) monitor the economic performance and diagnose economic
problems in the Eastern Caribbean; (b) provide timely macro-economic advice;
(c) identify and prepare projects in the public sector; and (d) follow-up
donor commitments of financial and technical assistance. As a complement to
this effort CDB is financing resident project coordinators for most OECS
members, and USAID is financing the work of a consulting firm which is trying
to attract foreign investment in export industries for these islands.
2.13      In 1982 the United States announced its Caribbean Basin Initiative
(CBI) to aid the region. In addition to increased aid flows, the CBI would
remove many of the trade barriers for locally produced items entering the US
from Caribbean countries. Bilateral investment treaties would be negotiated
with these countries to reduce foreign investor risks. At the same time, new
tax incentives would be enacted to encourage US firms to invest more in the
region. So far the US Congress has only accepted the increased aid flows and
it is unclear when the other proposals will be enacted.



- 5 -
III - THE SECTORS
The Agriculture Sector
3.01       The agricultural sector in the Caribbean is a major source of
foreign exchange, employment and income. The sector's performance in recent
years has been poor, and after 1972 the region became a net importer of
agricultural products. This resulted in a net reduction of about one-third
in agricultural employment between 1960 and 1970. Further reductions have
occurred since then, but no comparable aggregate data are available.
Nevertheless, the sector still remains the largest soujrce of employment,
absorbing abo-ut 25% of the labor force. In spite of the sharp reduction in
employment that has occurred in the last 20 years, real per capita farm
income has also declined during this period. The underlying problems include
neglect of proper land tenure and use policies, inefficient methods of
production, and weakness in government support services and pricing policies,
which have helped to widen the disparity in earnings between agriculture and
other sectors. Several of the LDCs rely on a single crop such as bananas or
sugar which have uncertain futures due to competition from outside the
region. The countries of the region recognize the seiousness of the problem
and are trying to revitalize and diversify the sector to increase employment,
raise incomes in rural areas, check rural/urban migration and improve their
balance of payments.
3.02        The Bank Group is assisting larger projects in the MDCs, while
CDB is tackling the problem on both a national and regional basis in the LDCs
and for small projects in the MDCs. In this context CDB assisted in the pro-
motion of the Caribbean Food Corporation (CFC) which began making capital
investments in both the public and private sectors to boost agricultural
production in 1981. CFC has recently established a subsidiary on a joint
venture basis with the private sector to provide marketing and trade services
in the region. CDB has recently responded to a continuing shortage of
finance for the banana industry in the LDCs by establishing a revolving fund
to finance fertilizer and other inputs for the four windward islands most
dependent on this crop. In addition to its direct support for this sector, a
substantial amount of credit to individual farmers and fishermen is provided
through its DFC operations. It is expected that part of the proceeds of the
proposed credit will be for agricultural subprojects.
The Industrial Sector
3.03       The industrial sector in the Caribbean consists mainly of light
industry. Only Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica and Guyana have industrial
complexes devoted to the processing of minerals. The MDCs account for 94% of
regional manufacturing but this represents only 12% af the MDC's CDP and
employs only about 14% of the work force. Jamaica possesses the largest
manufacturing sector followed by Trinidad and Tobago. ManuLfacturing in
Guyana, except for bauxite processing, is still a minor sector. Industrial
activity in the LDCs is a quite limited, though growing, source of
employment. All the LDCs have established industrial estate programs to
attract foreign investors interested in utilizing local labor for assembly
and sewing operations. The success of these programs will depend in large
part on the investment climate, competitiveness of local wages and labor
productivity. The LDCs have been promoting their programs individually and
collectively with the help of CDB and USAID financed consultants.



-6-
3.04      Manufacturing in most of the region suffers from three sector
constraints - the smallness of domestic markets, the lack or the inadequacy
of raw materials and intermediate products and the insufficient number of
experienced entrepreneurs and skilled workers. CARIFTA and CARICOM were
created to stimulate investment in manufacturing by making rules for trade
liberalization, establishing a common external tariff, and harmonizing fiscal
incentives. The incentive schemes have not created the stimuli needed,
however, because they were mainly designed to encourage import substitution
at the national and regional levels. As the possibilities for efficient
import substitution at these levels are limited and in some cases exhausted,
these incentives resulted in the establishment of many inefficient industries
which generate little employment but enjoy unduly high effective protection.
The countries and regional institutions have increasingly been realizing that
in the future, efficient industrial development will have to be based largely
on increased exports to the rest of the world. As outlined in para. 2.07,
the CARICOM countries are considering within the framework of the CG a reform
of their industrial incentive policies. They are also giving high priority
within their investment programs to the development of the infrastructure to
support export-oriented productive activities. It is expected that a
substantial proportion of the proposed credit will be onlent for
manufacturing projects in the Caribbean.
The Tourism Sector
3.05      Tourism has been an outstanding growth sector in the region and has
provided CARICOM with an important source of foreign exchange and
employment. The total number of tourists has increased from 1.7 million in
1970 to a peak of 2.8 million in 1980. The world recession and appreciating
local currencids tied to the US Dollar have caused a 12% drop in tourist
arrivals since 1980.1/ At present the sector in some countries has
considerable excess capacity, so in these cases investments over the next few
years will probably take the form of upgrading existing facilities and making
them more energy efficient. Future prospects for tourism are considered
favorable when world economic growth resumes. A regional tourism promotion
unit has been established with the support of the CG to help the LDC's
attract more tourists. The main constraints to growth are likely to be the
limited number of scheduled flights to some islands and high prices for
tourism services. Most islands now have adequate air transport
infrastructure. CDB intends to maintain its support of the tourism sector,
by emphasizing the development of small hotel projects on some of the less
developed OECS islands.
The Transportation Sector
3.06      The two fundamental problems of the CARICOM States--isolation and
smallness-- can only be relieved by efficient and reliable transport systems,
both sea and air. The LDCs in particular are dependent on efficient sea
transport for developing merchandise trade and on air transport for the
1/   Caribbean Tourism Research and Development Council - Statistical Review
1982 (1982 figures based on 7 months actual).



- 7 -
development of tourism and light assembly industries. Total inbound/outbound
shipping cargo for the OECS islands amounted to about 230,000 metric tons in
1978, the most recent year for which data are available. This traffic is
expected to grow at 3% per year in normal periods of economic growth. At
present these islands have sufficient deepwater berthing capacity to handle
such growth for the foreseeable future. Though most islands have acceptable
airport facilities, the LDC's will probably not be able to increase their
share of tourist traffic without more reliable air services. Having played a
major role in financing transport infrastructure in the past, CDB plans to
shift its emphasis to more directly productive sectors. The quality of many
roads in the LDCs has declined markedly due to a lack of maintenance. The
proposed credit is expected to finance road reconstruction and agricultural
feeder roads.
The Public Utilities Sector
3.07      The power and water supply sectors are characterized in most
cases by local institutions with weak management and inefficient
administrative and operating practices. In most cases, tariffs are
inadequate and billing and collection deficient, resulting in inadequate
revenues and calling for increased government subsidies. In those cases
where there is a lack of infrastructure in these sectors, growth of the
tourism sector might be constrained. In the power sector, energy is
relatively high in cost due to the heavy dependence on imported oil, large
fixed investments that must be borne by small service areas that cannot be
interconnected and frequent breakdowns caused by poor maintenance. There is
a need for investment in developing geothermal and hydro-generating energy
and better maintenance services. Efforts to reduce system losses and energy
consumption by large users can yield significant benefits to these small
economies. Of the total water supplied, a small quantity is through house
connections and few of these are metered. Most systems in the LDCs depend on
surface sources and treatment is unreliable. Service is usually inadequate
and low pressures and rationing are common during the dry season. Public
sewer systems are very limited and the majority of the population relies on
soakage pits, septic tanks and pit privies. CDB has agreed to participate
in the Bank Group's water sector survey of the Caribbean region scheduled for
1983-84. This survey is expected to refine the sector strategy and identify
additional projects for financing. CDB is alre.ady involved in the power and
water sectors and part of the proposed credit could be used for them.
The Financial Sector
3.08      There is a diversity of financial intermediaries throughout the
region, both commercial banks and official development institutions.
Independent central banks have been created in the MDCs during the past 15
years and the Eastern Caribbean Currency Authority (ECCA), which was
established in 1965 to cover the needs of the LDCs, is scheduled to become a
central bank for these islands in April 1983. With the exception of Jamaica,
almost all the commercial banks are branches of leading UK, Canadian and US
banks, though in most of the LDCs a government-owned commercial bank has
recently been created. As of December 31, 1981, the commercial banking
system in the OECS countries had total deposits amounting to US$352 million,
or about 70% of 1981 regional GNP. This figure indicates the high
availability of financial resources for short-term, commercial operations in



-8-
the LDCs. This has been achieved despite the fact that interest rates paid
on savings averaged only 3% and fixed-term deposits 4-6% during 1979-82. The
prime lending rate remained stable at 9% during this period when local
inflation averaged 20% in 1979, 18% in 1980 and slightly below 10% in
1981-82. Rates are generally fixed by the commercial banks, though sometimes
influenced by government policy. Although commercial banks have been able to
mobilize a moderate volume of financial resources, they have channeled
relatively little to productive sectors. Most of their loans are for
consumer durables. Ways should be found to encourage the commercial banks to
play a larger role in lending on longer terms for investment projects. The
CDB could play a catalytic role in this respect by cofinancing projects with
commercial banks. They could also be used as intermediaries, if governments
would assume the foreign exchange risk.
3.09       Up to now, most CDB loans for the industrial sector have been
channeled through government-owned DFCs. These were established in the early
1970s, in most cases with CDB support. The small DFCs in the LDCs have
experienced serious difficulties in attracting qualified staff and in many
cases have relied on the CDB for technical assistance. Undercapitalization
and low interest spreads have resulted in little or no income and have made
them dependent on the government to cover part of their operating costs.
Their exposure to political influence has made loan collection difficult.
The resulting loan losses and arrears call into question, in some cases, the
financial viability of these institutions. The problems of these DFCs have
been extensively studied. CDB, with USAID technical assistance funds and
additional equity capital, financed by the previous IDA credit, is
restructuring several DFCs. CDB has assumed an increasingly firm position
with those DFCs who have followed unsound financial and economic policies.
In one recent situation, it has informally suspended disbursements and in
other cases it has postponed consideration of new loans. The Bank has made
it clear that it would not approve subloans to DFCs following unsound
policies. Bank and CDB staff have worked closely in trying to improve the
implementation of loans to DFCs and carefully evaluating future loan
requests. CDB and the Bank have also considered the possibility of using a
commercial bank channel for onlending to industry and agriculture in those
countries having an intractable problem with their DFCs. A portion of the
proposed credit may be used for this purpose.



- 9 -
IV. THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Shareholders
4.01      Membership of CDB is open to regional and nonregional states and
territories and regional members must hold not less than 60% of its shares.
Membership is now 20 regional states and territories and two nonregional
states. Regional members are made up of MDCs, LDCs and donor countries. The
regional donors, Trinidad and Tobago, Venezuela, Colombia and Mexico, hold
27.9% of the shares, regional borrowing members, 38.6% and the nonregional
donor states of Canada and the United Kingdom, 33.5%. The authorized capital
of CDB as of December 31, 1982 was US$281.6 of which $250.2 million had been
subscribed, $57.2 million paid in and $193 million subject to call when
required by CDB to meet its obligations.- A statement of Subscriptions of
Capital Stock and Voting Power at the end of 1982 is given in Annex II.
Objectives
4.02      CDB's Charter states that its main objective shall be to contribute
to the harmonious economic growth and development of the member countries in
the Caribbean and to promote economic cooperation and integration among them,
having special and urgent regard to the needs of the less developed members
of the region. In fulfilling this objective, CDB is required to assist its
regional members in the coordination of their development programs, in the
provision of appropriate technical assistance and in the financing of their
projects and programs. CDB shall also cooperate with national, regional and
international organizations or other entities concerned with the development
of the region.
Policies
4.03      CDB's Charter states that it will be guided by sound development
banking principles, and that it shall finance only economically sound,
technically feasible and properly appraised projects. In doing so, CDB can
finance private as well as public borrowers with debt or equity investments.
In making or guaranteeing a loan, CDB has to pay due regard to the prospects
that the borrower will be able to meet the obligations under the loan
contract. CDB is required to supervise its investments and to make certain
that its funds are used with due attention to economy and efficiency. Its
Policies and Procedures Manual requires that projects financed from Ordinary
Capital Resources (OCR) should normally have a minimum financial and economic
rate of return of 12%. In the case of projects with low financial rates of
return and which are financed from Special Fund Resources (SFR), the economic
rate of return should normally be a minimum of 15%, so as to justify CDB's
funding under its Charter requirement for "high developmental priority".
CDB has agreed to carry out the project and its operations in accordance with
its Policies and Procedures Manual.
4.04      In addition to general guidelines, the Charter contains a number of
operating limitations designed to safeguard CDB's financial soundness. For



- 10 -
example, CDB must maintain a reasonable diversification in its OCR
investments in equity capital, and the total of these investments may not
exceed 10% of its ordinary paid-in capital and reserves (not including the
special reserve). No similar limitation applies to CDB's lending by country
or loan size in relation to CDB's paid-in capital and reserves. This risk is
a significant one, since CDB's capital is relatively small, and the
diversification of its loan portfolio is limited to five MDC and eight LDC
borrowers. So far, CDB has preferred to make country credit decisions on a
more flexible and informal basis, but its management appreciates the need for
limitations on its maximum country exposure. At the end of 1982 approved
loans to Guyana and Jamaica, the major borrowers of OCR resources, amounted
to 20% and 31.6% respectively of CDB's paid in capital and reserves.
4.05      CDB's Lending and Investments Policy statement also provides that
the minimum size of a direct loan in any country will be equivalent to the
maximum size loan allowed by the local DFC in each country. This limit
presently varies between US$100,000 and 200,000. Loans from OCR, which are
at CDB's risk, to governments, can finance up to 80% of project costs in the
case of the LDCs and 70% in the case of MDCs, which represent the estimated
direct and indirect foreign exchange components. Loans to private borrowers
are limited to two-thirds of project costs subject to an aceptable
debt/equity ratio. Loans from SFR, which are administered by CDB on behalf
of donors, are made principally to governments, and can finance up to 90% of
project costs. In its operations, CDB must give priority to the financing of
enterprises which are effectively controlled by nationals, member governments
or their public agencies. CDB is required to see that loans are "adequately
secured". For private lending this normally means a first mortgage on land
or other form of security without prior claim.
4.06      In the past a number of governments which have contributed to SFR
have insisted on CDB's lending their funds in accordance with their own
restrictions on procurement, terms, type of borrower, etc. As these donors
have increased, so has the complexity of CDB's programming task. CDB is
presently proposing that a new "unified" Special Development Fund (SDF) be
established by those donors who would make their contributions without such
limitations. The proposed IDA credit would not be included in this fund.
Final decisions on this proposal are expected at CDB's annual meeting in May
1983.
4.07      Details of CDB's loan terms and conditions are given in Annex III.
Onlending rates for Trust Fund Operations are determined by agreement with
the donor. The exchange risk on all CDB operations is borne by the borrower
or guarantor. Other financial policies such as CDBs liquidity policy and
policy for setting onlending rates are discussed in Chapter VI. CDB has
agreed that it will not amend its Charter, Policies and Procedures Manual or
Lending and Investments Policy, if this would adversely and materially affect
CDB's operations or financial condition. CDB will be revising or preparing
new manuals, operating procedures and systems to document the various changes
it plans to make in order to implement the recommendations of its
organization and management consultants. It has agreed to send the Bank a
comprehensive listing of the proposed changes in documentation by September
30, 1983, together with the estimated dates for completing first drafts of
these documents.



- 11 -
Board of Governors
4.08      The Board of Governors is the highest policy-making body of CDB.
Each member country 1/ is represented on its Board of Governors by
a governor and an alternate. The Board of Governors, headed by a rotating
annual chairman, is composed of 18 governors (Annex IV) which meets at least
once a year or whenever summoned by a majority of the members of CDB. Voting
power is roughly proportional to shares subscribed, with a slight weighting
in favor of the smaller member territories. All the powers of the CDB, other
than those specifically assigned to the Board of Directors are vested in the
Board of Governors which may delegate them to the Board of Directors except
for the admission of new members, changes in authorized capital, Charter
amendments, suspension of members and approval of CDB's annual financial
statements.
Board of Directors
4.09      The Board of Directors is composed of 12 members (Annex IV),
appointed for a renewable two-year period, of whom ten represent the regional
members of CDB and two the nonregional members.  The Board of Directors which
meets about 8 - 9 times a year is responsible for the general policy and the
direction of the operations of the Bank. The Board exercises all powers
delegated to it by the Board of Governors and, in conformity with the
Charter, takes decisions concerning loans, guarantees and other investments
by the CDB. It also approves the administrative budget and submits accounts
pertaining to each financial year for approval by the Board of Governors.
Management
4.10      The President of CDB, under the guidance of the Board of Directors,
of which he is chairman, conducts the day-to-day business of the bank. He
serves for a five-year term and may be re-elected. Mr. William Demas, the
current President, completed his first term in September 1979 and was
re-elected for a second term by the Board of Governors.  Mr. Demas and his
management team are successfully guiding the institution through a difficult
period of adjustment in which its borrowing countries in the Caribbean are
severely affected by the world-wide economic recession.  At the same time,
several of these countries are also making the transition from colonial and
associated statehood status to independence. Management has continued to
maintain CDB's reputation for attracting qualified staff and promoting high
quality projects in the region. Increasingly, CDB is emerging as the forum
for discussion of the region's economic problems through its Board of
Governors' meetings and at various high level conferences.
1/ Except for Montserrat, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Turks and
Caicos Islands and Anguilla, which jointly elect one governor.



- 12 -
4.11       Management within the CDB relies heavily on a formal system of
committees. The most important one is the Management Committee made up of
the president and his department directors. It meets on a regular basis at
least once a week to discuss issues requiring management decision. There are
also standing committees consisting of most of the same directors to make
decisions on investment management, loan approvals and loan supervision. In
order to give operations a greater country focus, in September 1982 Country
Committees were established for members of the OECS and Belize. Their
principal functions are to coordinate CDB activity in the country, review the
country's development and public sector investment programs and the adequacy
of CDB's project pipeline and of relationships between CDB and the country.
Each committee is chaired by a senior manager and has on it the various CDB
staff members involved with lending to that country.
Organization
4.12       CDB's present organizational structure is shown in Annex V.  Most
line lending functions are unified under a Director of Projects, who has four
divisions and a loan supervision unit reporting to him. Three of these
divisions have lending responsibility by sector, while the fourth has all the
project financial and economic analysts who are shared by the others. The
Director of Economics and Programming is responsible for country economic
studies, lending programs, quality control and post evaluation of project
work. The Secretary's Department has responsibility for managing most
technical assistance activities. There is also a director of administration
and a treasurer/controller and general counsel, both of director level. The
Vice President, Mr. Neville Nichols, is also General Counsel and Acting
Director of projects.
4.13       As discussed in para. 5.07, CDB has had difficulties in increasing
its level of lending operations and has come under some criticism from both
its borrowing and donor countries. In the fall of 1981, the CDB Board of
Directors recommended, and management accepted, the need for an independent
management study to develop proposals for changes in CDB's organization and
operating systems and procedures in order better to achieve its objectives.
The study was also to include the preparation of an organizational and
personnel development plan, together with proposals to implement the planned
changes. Consultants were selected and began their assignment in September
1982 and submitted their draft final report in mid-March 1983. The
consultant's recommendations were made in consultation with CDB's management,
which strongly supports them. Most of the changes would be implemented over
a two-year period ending in April 1985. Some of the more important
recommendations include grouping the projects department, economics and
programming department and all technical assistance under the vice President,
who would have responsibility for all lending operations. The staff
departments (treasurer and controller's, legal, administration and secretary)
would continue to report directly to the President, though in the longer term
a second vice president position might be created to supervise these areas.
CDB expects to present the consultant's recommendations to its Board by July
1983. The Bank will be kept informed of CDB's progress in implementing the
changes involved.



- 13 -
Staffing
4.14      CDB has a total of 233 staff, of whom 108 are professionals.  Some
23 of the professional staff and 4 support staff are supplied by foreign aid
agencies under technical assistance programs.2/ Since the last operation,
appraised in 1979, professional staff have increased by 34. Nine additional
professional positions have been added with responsibility for data
processing, personnel and management services; two economists to analyse
member country data in the Economics and Programming Department; and about
twenty additional project staff in industry and infrastructure and to staff
the new Technology and Energy and Project Training Units. As part of the
management and organization study, the consultants analyzed work loads and
staffing. They concluded that their recommended changes in CDB's
organization would require three additional professional positions. Also
about twenty non-professional positions could be eliminated through
attrition, if CDB makes an investment in word processing machines. With
these changes CDB would be well staffed to handle most projects in
agriculture, power, transportation, water supply, industry and tourism.
Future Bank Group technical cooperation with CDB is likely to be needed in
areas where the former has special expertise, such as in setting up road
maintenance organizations, generating electricity from bagasse, the use of
commercial banks for DFC lending, or, possibly, technical and vocational
education projects. When such assistance is required by CDB, the Bank would
supply it, if staff with appropriate expertise can be made available. Their
involvement would usually take the form of short visits to CDB or joint
missions.
Operations
4.15      Project Identification and Promotion.  Until recently, project
identification and promotion took place primarily as a result of contacts
developed by CDB projects staff in borrowing countries and the work of
Ba.nk/IMF/CDB economic missions which reviewed public sector investment
programs and assisted in the preparation of Government project lists for
donor consideration at Caribbean Group meetings. In 1982, CDB sent its own
multi-sectoral project identification missions to Anguilla, the British
Virgin Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia,
and St. Vincent. During 1983 such missions are scheduled for Antigua, Belize
and Trinidad and Tobago (mainly for private sector projects). These missions
have already produced a larger, more soundly based lending program for the
countries visited than CDB has had in the past. When a new project is
identified an issues paper is prepared for management review and decision,
and the project becomes a part of the lending pipeline. The Project
Management Committee then selects a project leader who prepares a project
profile as the basis for carrying out the appraisal. The profile contains
the objectives, implementation schedule and a critical path for project
preparation.
2/ Principally USAID, IDB, CFTC, EDF, CIDA and ITC.



- 14 -
4.16      Project Appraisal.  The Projects Management Committee allocates
additional staff with the required disciplines to prepare and appraise a
project. After project preparation, projects are appraised quickly and
appraisal reports usually written within two months. After review at the
divisional and departmental level, the appraisal report is sent for approval
to the Loan Committee, composed of department heads, general counsel and the
president. For all projects proposed to be financed from the proceeds of the
Credit; and for at least one other project in each of the sectors of
agriculture, industry, tourism and infrastructure; and any other project
estimated to cost more than US$5 million equivalent or requiring a loan from
CDB of more than US$3 million equivalent; CDB will send IDA for information
purposes the issues paper and appraisal report as soon as they are prepared.
4.17      Appraisal reports are now relatively well focussed and analytical.
Although engineering, economic and financial aspects of projects are treated
soundly, until the last few years institutional aspects were, in many cases,
not dealt with adequately. CDB has recently put much more emphasis on
institutional matters such as financial management and information systems
and rate covenants particularly in its lending to power and water authorities
and local DFCs. It has used much more extensively its technical assistance
resources to provide technical specialists to borrower institutions to assist
in these efforts. In connection with the last Bank loan and IDA credit, CDB
published sectoral policy statements which it developed in consultation with
the Bank. Partly as a result it has strengthened the sectoral analysis in
its appraisals and how projects relate to specific sectors.
-4.18      Project Implementation and Supervision.  The responsibility for
reviewing project implementation is shared among the Projects, Legal and
Finance Departments. Projects Department staff monitor the progress of
construction and the Controller makes disbursements on the advice of project
officers. Project officers prepare a standard supervision report twice a
year and after supervision missions. These reports are reviewed by the Loan
Supervision Unit, which reports to the Projects Director, and problems are
taken up at monthly meetings of the Loan Supervision Committee. This
Committee is chaired by the Vice President and General Counsel and made up of
several directors. On the basis of Committee decisions, action is taken to
deal with specific problems. The physical implementation of projects is
generally well monitored as project officers for projects under supervision
tend to be engineers. Normally, the financial reporting of executing
agencies is monitored by the Loan Supervision Unit which is not adequately
staffed for such an assignment. Many borrowing institutions are having
financial problems, some of which could have been detected, if financial
aspects had been given greater attention during supervision visits. The
management consultants (para. 4.13) have recommended that the Loan
Supervision Unit be eliminated and responsibility for supervision given to
division chiefs. Financial and economic analysts would be assigned to each
division so that the team responsible for appraisal could retain its specific
responsibilities for supervision of the project during the implementation
stage. Each division's supervision activities and its borrower's compliance
with loan covenants would be reported to the Director of Projects and the
Vice President of Operations. CDB has agreed to make the changes in its
supervision procedures recommended by the consultants and to send a draft



- 15 -
of the procedures and of a system for monitoring their implementation to the
Bank for comment by March 31, 1984.
4.19      Technical Assistance.  In the last few years CDB has greatly
strengthened its technical assistance activities in an attempt to improve the
absorptive capacity of its borrowing members, particularly the LDCs. In
addition to its traditional role of financing pre-investment studies and
providing technical advice, CDB is using its technical assistance funds to
finance key managers and other staff to help implement projects when these
skills are not available at local salary levels. It has also established a
Project Administration and Training Unit (PATU), its own equivalent of the
Bank's ED!. Courses are now held on a regular basis to train key civil
servants in economic analysis and project implementation. PATU has received
assistance from EDI in the past and plans are being made to teach several
courses jointly in the region. With financial support from USAID, CDB
established in 1980 for a three-year experimental period a Technology and
Energy Unit (TEU), which is providing technical assistance to the region in
these fields. After funding for this unit stops, CDB plans to continue its
higher priority activities, though on a reduced scale. CDB sometimes finds
it difficult to administer technical assistance funds from many different
sources, some with conflicting requirements, so it is proposing the
establishment of a "unified" technical assistance fund. Donors would make
contributions to the fund in a common currency without restrictions.
4.20      Procurement and Disbursement.  CDB's policies and procedures for
procurement financed from its own funds, i.e., share capital and market
borrowings, are modeled on the Bank's, but modified to allow for more
flexibility when it deals with private sector borrowers. International
competitive bidding is required on goods contracts above US$750,000 and works
contracts above US$500,000. For works and goods costing less than these
amounts, contracts may be awarded on the basis of letters of invitation to at
least three suppliers in the territory where the project is located and at
least one outside supplier. In those cases where contracts are financed with
CDB's own funds, eligible bidders are normally limited by its charter to
members and those countries which contribute substantially to its resources.
When CDB uses another source of financing, it applies the procurement
guidelines of the lender or donor concerned. As part of the first and second
Bank loans, CDB permitted procurement from World Bank member countries and
Switzerland for contracts financed with Bank Group resources. The Bank's
procurement guidelines as agreed with CDB (see para. 7.09) would be used for
contracts financed from the proposed IDA credit.
4.21      Accounting and Auditors.  CDB maintains its accounting records in
current US dollars. As prescribed in the CDB's Charter, entirely separate
accounts are kept for ordinary operations and for each of CDB's special
funds. The accounting work undertaken by CDB staff is adequate. Since
inception, Price Waterhouse & Co. have been CDB's auditors. None of their
reports has been qualified.



- 1.6 -
V.  CDB'S PAST OPERATIONS AND FUTURE LENDING PROGRAM
CDB's Past Operations
5.01      From its inception in 1970 to December, 1982, CDB has mobilized
resources totalling US$483.8 million from the following sources: USA (26.9%),
UK and Canada (18.8%), Colombia and Venezuela (12.7%), m-ultilateral
institutions (17.8%), Nigeria, New Zealand and Federal Republic of Germany
(3.7%), LDC members (1.3%), MDC members (12.9%) and retained earnings and
reserves (5.9%).
5.02      Gross financing approvals during this period totalled US$458.4; and
net financing approvals (after cancella-tions, slippages etc.) amounted to
US$411.3 million or 90% of the gross. Net approvals were distributed as
follows: Loans US$388.1 million (94.3%); contingent loans US$1.5 million
(0.4%); equity investments US$2.0 million (0.5%) and grants US$9.8 million
(4.8%). Disbursements have totalled US$290.9 million or 70.7% of net
approvals as of end 1982.
5.03      Operations b  Type of Funding.  CDB's lending operations are of
three types: (i) ordinary operations; (ii) special operations and (iii)
trust fund operations. Ordinary operations are at CDB's risk and are
financed from ordinary capital resources (OCR) which consist of share
capital, retained earnings and funds borrowed from other multilateral
development banks (MDBs) or the market. Special operations include loans
made at concessionary rates (usually 4% p.a.) for high priority projects
mainly in the LDCs, and for balance of payment support through project
counterpart funding for MDCs. These operations are financed from the Special
Development Fund resources (SDF) and Other Special Funds (OSF) established by
donor countries and IDA at no risk to CDB. Trust Fund resources are those
managed by CDB on behalf of donors for a fee; credit risks lie with the
fund. To date, CDB administers only one trust fund; the Venezuela Trust Fund
(VTF), with total resources of about US$25.0 million.
5.04      A summary of CDB's operations by type of funding is provided in
Table 5.01. As of December 31, 1982 the lending composition by funding
source was as follows: OCR (30%), VTF (4%) and SFR (66%). This relationship
which has held more or less constant over the last five years, is expected to
change in the future with OCR taking a larger share (para 5.15).
TABLE 5,01:  CDB's Summary of Operations (1970-1982)
(US$ Million)
OCR      VTF        SFR       TOTAL
Approvals             124.7     17.8      268.8      411.3
Disbursements          70.1     13.2      207.7      290.9



- 17 -
5.05      Operations by Sector.  CDB lends to its member governments and
public and private sector enterprises for a wide range of development
activities including: (i) agriculture, agro-industry, livestock, fisheries,
and feeder roads; (ii) industrial estates, small scale manufacturing
industries, hotels and tourism facilities; (iii) infrastructure projects
including ports, highways, public utilities, transportation and housing; (iv)
program loans; and (v) student loans. The distribution of CDB loan financing
to the various economic sectors according to funding source for the period
1971-82 is given in Annex VI, Table 1. If DFC lending to manufacturing is
included in this sector, then manufacturing and transport both accounted for
26% each of total lending, with agriculture contributing 18% and power and
water 11%. Together infrastructure projects made up 38% of total lending.
This reflects CDB's past emphasis on developing basic infrastructure required
to support the other sectors.
5.06      Over the period 1971-82 the LDCs received 56% of CDB's total
financing, down from 62% as of. 1978. This decline is due almost completely
to an increase in soft lending to MDCs, as their relative shares of hard
lending have remained almost unchanged. CDB used to allocate its soft
resources primarily on country grounds and no more than 30% of SDF could be
allocated to the MDCs. Prior to 1978, the MDCs voluntarily agreed to receive
a smaller share of SDF funds on the grounds that they were economically
better off. This limitation remains but funds from other sources have been
used to ease the adverse economic situation in Barbados, Guyana and Jamaica.
Because there are more "poor" people in the MDCs than the combined population
of the LDCs, CDB's policy of allocating soft funds has become more flexible.
Since then it has made US$65.5 million in program loans on soft terms to the
MDCs as agent for the Caribbean Development Facility (CDF) to finance local
counterpart for projects already under implementation in these countries. As
a result the MDCs share of SDF resources has increased from 21% as of 1978 to
32% as of end year 1982. CDB plans to maintain the MDC share of SDF
resources at 30% in the future. At the same time the share of soft funds
received by the higher income per capita LDCs (Antigua, St. Kitts/Nevis, St.
Lucia) has been shrinking, and the share of those OECS members eligible for
IDA has actually increased from 41% of commitments through 1978 to 44% as of
end 1982.
5.07      Annual Performance.  A comparison of CDB's annual loan approvals
during the period 1979-82 with the appraisal estimates made for the previous
operation are shown in Table 5.02 below:



- 18 -
Table 5.02:   CDB Total Annual Loan Approvals (Gross)
(US$ million)
1978(No.)  1979(No.)   1980(No.)   1981(No)   1982(No.)   1978-82
OCR 1/         9.0         41.2         13.5        17.3         29.6        110.6
SFR           22.2         19.2         26.6        15.3         13.2         96.5
IDA            -            -             .8         7.2          -            8.0
Subtotal      31.2(24)    60.4(26)    40.9(24)   39.8(26)    42.8(29)   215.1
CDF           18.0         19.5           .2        16.7         12.0         66.4
Total         49.0         79.9         41.1        56.5         54.8         281.5
~~~=                              ==
SAR Estimate 2/ -          76.0        88.0        87.0         87.
% of SAR Est. -            100%          34%        66%           57%
Av.regular
Loan size      1.3          2.3          1.7         1.5          1.5
1/ Includes VTF.
2E/ Estimate made in 1979.
CDB's actual performance fell far short of estimates made in 1979 for the
second operation.   The reasons are several.  The forecast was probably
optimistic given the problems of absorptive capacity still being faced by the
LDCs. In addition, because of the economic problems in several larger MDC
borrowers, CDB was forced to reduce its lending to them. The US$80 million
in new commitments made in 1979 was more a combination of past efforts to
develop a pipeline, than an indication of a sustainable level of lending.
The sharp drop in lending in 1980 was due in part to no USAID funds being
available for CDF program lending in that year. The number of regular loans
approved has increased each year since 1980, though the average size of loans
has not. The natural tendency for loan size to increase with inflation, has
been balanced by CDB's shift in emphasis since 1979 to the LDCs, where
projects are usually smaller.



- 19 -
5.08      Quality of Portfolio.  It is particularly difficult to assess the
quality of a regional development bank's loan portfolio. Most of the loans
are made to governments, or subject to their guarantee, for a diversity of
projects, many of which are not revenue earning. Nevertheless judgements on
performance can be made based on such factors as delays in disbursement, cost
overruns, adherence to important loan covenants, and ability to repay loans
for revenue generating projects. Based on such an analysis of the
outstanding portfolio (excluding DFCs and industrial estates) by CDB's
portfolio supervision unit as of June 30, 1982, about 70% by value and 55% by
number of loans in this sample were classified problem free. About 4% of
this portfolio sample represents loans to the private sector of which 60% by
value are classified as problem free. All public sector projects have
government guarantees. Those in the private sector normally have collateral
security. Several private sector projects are in financial difficulty and at
present may not be adequately secured. CDB is presently taking steps to
determine the extent of any losses, though they cannot be considered
significant as the total value of these loans represent less than 1.3% of
CDB's total portfolio outstanding.
Experience Under the Previous Projects
5.09      Since the appraisal of the first Bank operation in 1975, CDB has
been considered by the Bank to be a high quality development bank. Because
of this favorable assessment and CDB's role as an international development
institution rather than a local development finance company, the Bank waived
the normal free-limit requirement for subloans funded from IBRD resources.
This policy was changed for the IDA credit included in the second operation.
In this case CDB was still the borrower, but it took no credit risk, as it
does with IBRD funds. All IDA subloans were therefore approved by IDA,
though CDB still had a free hand to finance projects in practically all
sectors. This arrangement would be continued under the second IDA credit
(para 7.07).
5.10      Commitments under the first project, which began in 1976, took
about a year longer than expected due to a number of unforeseen problems.
Jamaica and Guyana experienced such severe economic difficulties that CDB had
to practically halt lending to its main borrowers of hard funds. CDB also
shifted the emphasis of its lending to provide softer resources to its LDC
members. The government guarantees required by IBRD caused substantial
delays, particularly in the case of UK associated states. Loan 1233-CRG was
committed for nine projects in six countries. Loan 1234-CRG (Third Window)
was committed for four projects in as many OECS members. These projects
included a mortgage finance project in St. Lucia, an electricity project in
Montserrat, a port in St. Kitts/Nevis and a sugar mill in Antigua.
5.11        Although the IDA/EEC Credit (960-CRG, 37-CRG) was committed by
CDB's Board before the final date of December 31, 1981 for presenting
subprojects, an extension of a year was required to allow for several
countries to become members of IDA. An extension of a year was also needed
for the second Bank loan (1775-CRG) in order to complete CDB's commitment of
the loan and to arrange for country guarantees on subloans. Commitments for
the second Bank loan were delayed by many of the factors which affected the



- 20 -
first operation. In addition, several large private sector projects which
were earmarked for funding from the second Bank loan had to be dropped or
changed to a different funding source at advanced stages of preparation, due
to the political difficulties of obtaining the government guarantees required
by IBRD, and a reluctance by borrowers to accept a basket of unknown
currencies.
5.12      The IDA/EEC Credit (960-CRG and 37-CRG) has been fully committed
for seven projects in six countries (see Annex VI, Table 2). Three took the
form of equity contributions to DFCs from their governments as part of
financial restructuring programs to revitalize these institutions. The
largest subloan (US$3 million) was made to help rebuild Dominica's port which
had been devastated by a hurricane. Other subloans were made for water
supply, feeder roads and power. The second Bank loan (1775-CRG) has been
slightly over committed for ten subloans totaling US$23.6 million in seven
countries. The excess would compensate for cancelations which are expected
to occur as the projects are implemented. In the case of the St. Vincent
power project, CDB has blended funds from IDA, EEC and IBRD to complete its
financing plan. About 33% of the second Bank loan went to Jamaica for low
income mortgage finance, water supply and repair of flood damaged roads.
Another 27% went to Barbados and Guyana for three direct manufacturing
projects, two of which were owned by the private sector. The largest single
subloan (US$4 million) is the one being processed for a new airport terminal
building in the Cayman Islands. Where applicable, expected economic rates of
return ranged from 19-34% while financial rates of return were from 10-21%.
5.13      Technical Assistance to CDB.  During implementation of the Second
Project technical assistance to CDB, in addition to normal supervision visits
by IDFI and desk reviews of subprojects presented for IBRD financing, took
the form of: (i) CDB staff attending EDI courses; (ii) visits to IBRD for
training and familiarization; (iii) visits by IBRD staff to CDB to discuss
sector lending issues and review subprojects; (iv) joint missions to prepare,
appraise or supervise projects of mutual interest; and (v) IBRD desk reviews
of CDB appraisal reports for projects not financed by IBRD. Annex VII gives
a more detailed summary of these support efforts. This assistance, not
including EDI courses ar regular supervision by IDF1, totaled some 16
man-weeks of IBRD staff time over the three year period.
5.14      It is difficult to determine the impact of this effort on improving
CDB's operations. From a qualitative view, it is clear that the technical
design of many subprojects has improved significantly. For example the
preparation of sector policy papers in cooperation with the Bank has provided
CDB staff and borrowers with a clearer understanding of CDB's objectives and
technical requirements. Appraisal reports for public utility projects now
give greater emphasis to tariff and rate setting issues as a direct result of
IBRD assistance in this area. Likewise CDB is taking more effective actions
to upgrade the quality of DFC loan portfolios as a result of Bank staff
involvement in this area. The two staff charged with establishing a post
evaluation and review system in CDB, visited the Bank for a two-week
familiarization program sponsored and financed by the Operations Evaluation
Department. Their resulting report and recommendations to CDB management
should set the course for this function in CDB.



- 21 -
Future Lending Program
5.15       Operations by Type of Fund.  CDB's lending program for the next
five years (1983-87) is provided in Table 5.03 below. The lending program is
divided into three categories of regular operations. Program loans such as
CDF have not been included because of their unpredictable nature.
Table 5.03: CDB's Projected Lending Program (1983-87)
(US$ million)
1982(No.) 1983(No.) 1984(No.) 1985(No.) 1986(No.) 1987(No.) 1983-87
OCR         29.6      25       27         30        33       36        151
SFR         13.2     20        22        28        30        32        132
IDA         4.0       3         4         -         -         -          7
Subtotal    42.8(29)  48(30)    53(31)    58(32)    63(33)    68(34)    290(160)
Average
Proj.Size   1.5       1.6      1.7       1.8       1.9       2.0
Based upon past performance (Table 5.02), the mission projects a 9% annual
increase in the US$ volume of CDB's regular lending over the five-year period
1983-87. This is made up of a 3% growth per year in the number of projects
processed, combined with an increase in average loan size from US$1.5 million
to US$2.0 million over the period. The 3% per year growth in numbers of
projects is assumed to be due primarily to increased productivity of CDB's
staff, since its Board presently plans to reduce the future growth in CDB's
administrative budget. Average loan size would increase primarily because of
an expected increase in lending to Jamaica and possibly other MDC's later.
5.16       The mission projects that CDB will commit a total of US$151 million
of OCR resources over the five-year period 1983-87, compared with US$110.6
million lent during the previous five years. A total of US$139 million in
SFR and IDA funds would also be committed, compared to US$104.5 million
during 1978-82. OCR Loans would represent about 52% of total lending in the
next five years, reflecting a greater emphasis on projects that are directly
productive and can be financed with hard resources. Total lending for the
period of US$290 million would only modestly exceed the US$267 million
(US$215.1 million excluding CDF) lent in the previous five years, as no CDF
funding from USAID is presently programmed by CDB.
5.17       Sectoral Distribution.  CDB's lending program calls for a
substantial reduction in lending for transportation infrastructure, since
most islands have completed major investments in ports and airports.  There
would be a corresponding increase in the share of the directly productive



- 22 -
sectors of agriculture, manufacturing and tourism. CDB approvals to
productive sector projects amounted to only 29% of the total in 1981, though
they increased to 48% in 1982, as compared with an average of 36% of
approvals in the previous ten-year period. This dip in 1981 seems to have
been caused by CDB's response to several natural disasters which made
necessary the rebuilding of infrastructure on several islands. In order to
achieve its target of 65% of future lending for the productive sectors, CDB
has taken steps to improve its project identification and programming
capabilities by sending missions for this purpose into the field on a more
regular basis (para 4.14). As a result, CDB is expected to attain this
objective by the end of the forecast period, though the balance for each
country will depend on its assessed needs and particular situation.
5.18      CDB plans to make about two-thirds of its loans to the productive
sectors directly, with the balance made indirectly through DFCs. About 75%
of its lending for infrastructure would be made directly, with the remainder
for housing and student loans passing through DFCs. DFC lending would thus
make up 32% of the total program. Both direct and DFC lending to industry
and tourism would amount to 36% of the total. CDB's goals for DFC lending
may prove to be overly optimistic, in light of the questionable viability of
some DFCs (para 3.09). To the extent that there is a short fall in DFC
lending, it can probably be made up with greater direct lending.
5.19      Distribution by Country.  The allocation of hard and soft resources
in the program is designed to take into account: (i) the Board of Directors'
directive that the LDCs receive at least 70% of SDF funds; (ii) the perceived
absorptive capacities of borrowing member countries; (iii) the past
distribution of resources; and (iv) the countries' economic and
creditworthiness situation. About 47% of hard resources from OCR and VTF are
tentatively programmed for the LDCs with 36% going to MDCs and the remainder
of 17% to private sector borrowers in unidentified countries. This last
allocation is designed to allow CDB to respond to project financing proposals
expected to come from the CPDF and related initiatives (paras. 2.11 and
2.12).



- 23 -
VI.   CURRENT FINANCIAL POSITION, FINANCIAL
PROJECTIONS AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS
6.01      Financial Position and Past Financial Results.  CDB's comparative
balance sheets and profit and loss statements for the past five years
(1978-1982) for its OCR, SDF and Trust Fund Operations are shown in Annex
VIII, Tables 1 and 2. CDB's viability as a development institution depends
on its ability to raise and channel resources to its members. Its
credibility in the financial and donor communities depends principally upon
the financial condition and results of its OCR operations, so these will be
discussed first and most extensively. At the end of 1982, CDB's OCR had
assets amounting to $129.6 million consisting of liquid funds (39%), loans
(46%), receivables from members (9%) and fixed and other assets (6%). These
were financed by equity and reserves (55%) and borrowed funds (45%).
Although CDB's total OCR assets increased by the amount forecast during the
appraisal of the Second Caribbean Development Bank Project, CDB's OCR lending
operations were well below the amount forecast (see para 5.07). During this
period CDB increased its paid in capital and contracted borrowing as
expected, but it drew down its market borrowings more rapidly than expected.
This enabled it to maintain a higher level of liquidity throughout the period
than forecast.  The high level of cash and short-term investments maintained
during the period, combined with the high yields on such assets, enabled CDB
to earn significantly more income on these assets than was forecast. This,
together with lower than forecast administrative expenses, offset the lower
than expected income on loans. Net income for OCR in the years 1979 to 1982
totaled $12.6 million compared with $11.5 million forecast. Administrative
expenses are allocated amongst CDB's various funds in accordance with the
number of operations and number of projects under supervision in each fund.
Because of the lower than forecast level of OCR lending, OCR's share of
administrative expenses was well below forecast.
6.02      As of December 31, 1982, CDB had contracted for its OCR
operation the following credit lines totaling $78.6 million: World Bank
($40.8 million); European Investment Bank ($2.8 million); Interamerican
Development Bank ($10 million) and Trinidad and Tobago ($25 million). CDB
total borrowing is below its current borrowing capacity of US$100 million,
which is defined by its Board of Governors as being limited to the sum of the
callable capital of Canada ($32.3 million), UK ($32.3 million), Trinidad and
Tobago ($24.8 million) and Venezuela ($10.6 million).
6.03      In the years 1978 to 1982, CDB earned between 4.4% and 5.8% on its
equity which is inadequate compared with the average rate of inflation in
those years. Its relatively low profitability is mainly due to its past
interest rate policy. CDB's margin (spread) on its OCR lending over the last
five years was as follows:



- 24 -
Table 6.01:   CDB's Margin on OCR Operations
(%)
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982
Average interest and commitment
income on loans and
mortgages                       8.31      7.38      7.56      8.38     8.88
Average borrowing costs           7.95      7.57      8.81      9.63    10.05
Margin                            0.36    (0.19)   (1.25)   (1.25)   (1.17)
In January 1979, CDB had four lending rates averaging about 9.5% p.a. In
October 1981 a unified lending rate of 10-1/2% p.a. on all OCR loans was
introduced. It was to have been adjusted semi-annually to reflect CDB's
average borrowing costs plus a share (initially one-half) of its
administrative expenses. However, the rate was not changed again until
December 1982, when it was increased to 12% p.a. (effective January 1,
1983). At the same time CDB's Board decided to increase gradually the share
of administrative expenses to be recovered by OCR from 60% in 1983 to 100% in
1987. The Board also decided that OCR's allocated administrative expenses
should be limited to 2.5% of its outstanding loan portfolio. Although this
would set a limit to the growth of administrative expenses, the mission feels
that CDB might better relate its costs to the amount of approved or committed
loans, since a large share of costs is incurred at the appraisal stage. The
outstanding loan figure excludes the share of approved but undisbursed loans
which is significant in this case. CDB's total administrative expenses have
risen as a percentage of committed and outstanding loans from 1.35% in 1978
to 1068% in 1982.
6X04      In recent years during which short term interest rates have been
higher than long term rates, CDB has followed a policy of maintaining high
levels of liquidity, so that it can maintain low or even negative spreads on
its lending, Although its stated policy has been to hold liquid assets equal
to two years projected disbursements, it has consistently exceeded these
levels, thereby enabling it to generate additional investment income with
which to bolster its earnings. Recently however, some CDB members have
resisted further substantial increases in paid-up capital, which would enable
CDB to continue this policy. At the same time, certain members have objected
to the increases in CDB's callable capital which would be required to enable
it to increase its borrowing from multilateral lending institutions such as
the World Bank and IDB. In addition to the protection of CDB's callable
capital, these institutions have required individual country guarantees on
subloans made with the proceeds of their loans, CDB's Board is now proposing
that these institutions allow CDB to onlend their resources outside CDB's
OCR, thereby enabling CDB to offer the protection of its callable capital
to lenders which would not require country guarantees on subloans made with
the proceeds of their loans. These issues are discussed below in the section
on CDB's OCR financial projections.



- 25 -
Projected Financial Results
6.05      The mission made financial projections of CDB's financial condition
and results for its various operations for the years 1983 to 1987. OCR
projections were made with a computerized financial planning model. The
OCR projections are shown in Annex IX and the assumptions on which they are
based are given in Annex X. The principal assumptions are the following:
a)   Projections were based on the lending program outlined in para
5.15.
b)   About one-third of loans made on hard terms by CDB in the years
1984-87 are financed outside OCR with loans made to CDB by the Bank
and IDB totalling $40 million. -
c)   CDB sets its lending rate for new operations at 2% above its
average cost of borrowed funds to cover its administrative
expenses, commencing with borrowings contracted in 1983.
d)   CDB adheres to its current policy of maintaining cash and short
term investments roughly equal to expected loan disbursements for
the next two years.
e)   Capital contributions of about US$13.9 million are made in 1984.
6.06      The key performance indicators from the OCR projections are
provided in Tables 6.02 and 6.03 below:
Table 6.02: CDB's Projected Margin (Spread)
(%)
1983     1984      1985      1986     1987
Income as % of portfolio          9.17      9.77    10.00    10.30    10.54
Financial expenses as %
of borrowed funds               8.67     8.65      8.66      8.79     8.92
Margin                              .50     1.12      1.34     1.51      1.62
CDB's average lending rate on its outstanding portfolio and its margin
do not improve faster because of the delayed effects of past low lending
rates on loans which disburse over several years. Any improvement desired in
CDB's financial results through increases in its lending rates will take a
number of years to achieve, unless some form of front-end fee is adopted.



- 26 -
Table 6.03:  CDB's Projected Financial Results
1983     1984       1985      1986      1987
% of Average Assets
Income from investments          3.4       2.6       2.1       2.0       1.9
Income from loans                4.5       5.0       5.6       6.0       6.3
Total                      7.9       7.6       7.7       8.0       8.2
Financial expenses               4.0       4.1       4.0       4.1       4.1
Margin                           3.9       3.5       3.7       3.9       4.1
Administrative expenses(net)  1.6          1.3       1.2       1.2 _    1.2
2.3       2.2      2.5        2.7       2.9
Net income (US$ million)           3.4       3.6       4.6       5.4       6.3
Net income as % of average
equity                           4.4       4.3       4.7       5.2       5.5
Total assets end of year
(US$ million)                 131.5    157.1    174.2    193.5    211.5
Total borrowing end of
year (US$ million)              75.6      80.5      90.7      98.6    106.0
Debt/equity                         .95       .88       .90       .89       .88
Interest coverage ratio          1.6       1.5       1.6       1.7       1.7
Debt service ratio               1.7       1.5       1.6       1.7       1.9
6.07      The forecast shows that CDB's OCR operations will be able to
maintain an acceptable financial position and CDB will continue to be
creditworthy. Its debt service ratios will remain above 1.5 throughout the
projection period. However, it may not be able to meet the important
financial objective of maintaining the value of its capital, as its expected
return on capital of between 4.4 to 5.5% during the period will probably be
below the rate of inflation. CDB has the same options available to it as it
had at the time of the last Bank operation, if it desires a higher return.
These would include: (i) an increase in its capital; (ii) an increase in its
lending rates; and (iii) a reduction in its administrative expenses per
dollar loaned by an overall cost reduction program or by increasing the
average size of its loans.



- 27 -
6.08      Since CDB has just increased its lending rate to 12% effective
January 1, 1983 in the face of falling market rates, it is very unlikely that
it could increase the rate again. In fact, there is likely to be pressure
from borrowing members for CDB to reduce its lending rate later in 1983.
There seems to be little interest in increasing paid-in capital because of
the current financial difficulties and budgetary constraints of members and
the need for donor members to get parliamentary approval for capital
increases. There is some scope for increasing loan size thereby reducing the
number of lending operations to the LDC's to conserve staff resources. There
is also a need to reduce the concentration of credits to specific countries
and to spread CDB's risk. CDB is, at present, considering making loans to
Trinidad and Tobago, to assist this member country both financially and
technically on specific projects and to strengthen the overall quality of
CDB's portfolio. Finally, there may be some scope for reducing
administrative costs by trimming some of CDB's peripheral, less important
functions which it has undertaken in some cases in response to pressures put
upon it by some donors. The management consulting study currently underway
will make recommendations in this area.   The resulting improvement in CDB's
organizational structure and in the functional responsibilities of its staff,
should help to make it more efficient and productive.
6.09      CDB has requested the Bank to assist it in reviewing its financial
policies on lending rates, liquidity, capital structure, etc. and to advise
it on the possibilities of broadening its financing base by obtaining
resources from new sources such as the Eurobond market. This study will be
carried out by LCP with the assistance of Treasurer's and the Bank's
Financial Policy and Analysis staff. More specific recommendations
concerning the options outlined in para 6.07 will result from this work.
6.10      Special Fund Resources.  SFR balance sheets and profit and loss
statements for the years 1978 to 1982 are shown in Annex VIII, Tables I and
2. At the end of 1982 SFR assets totaled US$228.7 million consisting of cash
and short-term investments (23%), loans (72%) and other assets (5%). These
assets were financed by donors contributions (89%) and reserves (11%). Loans
on concessionary terms and grants have been received from the USA, Canada,
UK, Venezuela, Germany, Colombia, Nigeria, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago and
New Zealand; and from the IDB, European Development Fund and IDA.
6.11       SFR assets increased from US$96.1 million at the end of 1978 to
US$228.7 million at the end of 1982 or by 138%. This is slightly more than
forecast during appraisal of the Second Operation. Net income was
considerably higher during the period than forecast principally because much
higher short term interest rates prevailed in financial markets, enabling CDB
to earn significantly more investment income than forecast.
6.12      At the end of 1982, CDB had US$35.6 million of technical assistance
resources made available by the contributors of SFR resources referred to in
para 6.10 (except for IDA). Such resources include: contributions of $4.3
million to the Technical Assistance Fund which was established to provide
technical advice and cooperation through non-reimbursable grants or as
contingently recoverable advances; $1.7 million for the Project



- 28 -
Administration Training Unit established to provide training in project
administration principally to public sector personnel; $29.6 million for
purposes agreed between CDB and contributors. Some $14 million of this is
for Educational and Basic Human Needs capital projects in the LDCs. At the
end of 1982 the cumulative amount approved for technical assistance was $30.5
million of which $23.7 million was disbursed.
6.13      Projected Financial Condition.  Forecasts of CDB's SFR were made
based on the lending program referred to in para 5.14. Its expected sources
of financing include the proposed IDA credit and a replenishment of SFR
needed in 1985. Forecast financial statements for the years to 1987 are
given in Annex IX, Table 4, together with the assumptions on which they are
based. Annual net income is forecast to average about $6.5 million, somewhat
lower than the $7.7 million in 1982 as rising income on loans is more than
offset by lower income on short-term investments because of lower expected
interest rates and rising administrative expenses. At the end of 1987
reserves would amount to an estimated $58.3 million on outstanding loans of
$271 million.
6.14      Trust Fund Operations.  No forecasts of the Venezuela Trust Fund
have been prepared. There has been little change in the level of assets or
income of this fund in recent years. No change is expected in the future as
its annual level of operations is low and no additional capital contributions
are expected. It is expected that future operations with Bank and IDB
resources will also be handled through a trust fund type of arrangement. CDB
proposes to cofinance OCR lending operations with Bank and IDB resources,
thereby resulting in a minimal increase in the costs of appraising and
supervising projects. The lending rate on such loans would be made to cover
the cost of OCR, Bank and IDB resources plus a spread to cover administrative
costs, provide the OCR with a return on its equity and increase its
reserves.



- 29 -
VII. THE PROJECT
Objectives
7.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)  Channel additional IDA funds to high quality development
projects in eligible Caribbean countries at lower cost than
IDA can do directly. The sector and evaluation criteria would
be similar to those presently accepted for Bank operations.
(b)  Strengthen CDB to become a more effective regional development
institution.
(c)  Where appropriate, build up CDB's capacity in specific sectors
by providing Bank staff assistance at various stages in the
project cycle.
7.02      The normal channel of Bank Group lending to the OECS members is
through CDB. Direct lending to Bank Group members of the OECS would be
considered in situations where a project is either too large to be financed
by CDB or is in a sector where CDB lacks sufficient experience. The IDA
credit through CDB would finance smaller projects in each of the eligible
LDCs on a more regular basis. The proposed credit would be made available to
CDB to finance public and private sector projects in eligible countries, but
not to co-finance projects receiving Bank Group funds. It was agreed that
IDA funds can be used to finance projects in agriculture, agroindustry,
manufacturing, tourism, transportation, public utilities, urban, housing,
technical and vocational education, training, health and any other sector
approved by IDA. Borrowed funds for subprojects would be utilized by
governments or passed on as loans or equity.
IDA Eligibility and Allocation
7.03      The OECS comprises five independent countries (Antigua and Barbuda,
Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent), a UK Associated State (St.
Kitts-Nevis) and a UK dependency (Montserrat). Eligibility for borrowing IDA
funds will be set forth in the Schedule to the Credit Agreement which may be
changed by IDA at its discretion. All independent countries are members of
IDA, except Antigua. Antigua has applied for membership in the Bank. It
will be added to the list of eligible countries authorized to borrow under
the credit when it is admitted to IDA membership. St. Kitts-Nevis and
Montserrat will be eligible to borrow as an associated state and dependency
of the UK, respectively. Given their very small size, structural weaknesses,
high degree of interdependence and serious financial difficulties, the OECS
countries were grouped together for IDA eligibility purposes.
7.04      The present conditions arguing for IDA eligibility are similar to
those that existed in 1979. Based on the 1981 Atlas figures, only Dominica
and St. Vincent have per capita income figures below $795 and the weighted
average annual per capita income for all the countries comes to $943. There
is persuasive evidence, however, that the exchange rate in these countries is



- 30 -
not a faithful reflection of differences in purchasing power.  Calculating
exchange rates based on price movements since 1976 and 1978, the weighted
average annual per capita income of all countries would be $907 and $846
respectively (Annex I, Table 2). If Antigua and Montserrat with per capita
incomes above $1,500 are excluded, the per capita figures for the rest would
be $800 in 1976 and $735 in 1978. Nevertheless, although the income levels
of Antigua and Montserrat are high even with the exchange rate adjustments,
these small open economies should also receive concessionary lending because
of the fragility of their economies and extraordinarily high per capita
infrastructure costs. IDA funds would be used to finance between 40% and 80%
of project costs depending on country income levels.   Their remaining
financing needs would be met from harder funds available to CDB from other
sources. This blending of funds recognizes the special economic problems of
these mini countries. CDB has agreed on these shares of financing as well as
the requirement that at least 60% of the IDA credit would be allocated to the
three poorest countries: Dominica, St. Vincent and Grenada. Other countries
declared eligible in the future would be subject to disbursements at a
percentage to be determined by IDA.
Credit Features
7.05      Administration Fee.  Because of its lower manpower costs, proximity
to its borrowers, the availability of ample technical assistance financed
from donor sources, and because the projects it finances are normally less
complex and therefore more rapidly processed, CDB's cost per lending
operation is considerably lower than IDA's. It was agreed that CDB's fee for
administering the project would remain the same in amount to be paid over the
same number of years as in the previous credit. However the payments will be
adjusted to reflect a more rapid commitment of loan funds by CDB and to more
closely match CDB's administrative expenditures for the project. The
distribution of the US$547,000 fee would be 35%, 25%, 15% and 10% over the
five-year period. As in the first credit, CDB would onlend the IDA credit to
its qualifying members on IDA terms. CDB would collect the service charge of
3/4% and pay it to IDA. IDA would in turn pay CDB the agreed fee over a
five-year period.
7.06      Commitment Fee.  As part of IDA's present lending terms, a 1/2%
commitment fee must be charged.  During the period before subloans are signed
with countries, CDB will have no right to charge commitment fees to
sub-borrowing countries nor will it be able to pay the IDA commitment fee
with Special Fund resources.  It would only be able to pass on this fee to
the eligible countries when they sign subloan agreements.  Under the two
previous operations IBRD agreed not to charge the commitment fee on the Bank
loans until a subproject was authorized. This concession was granted to
allow for the time needed to appraise and process subprojects and, because of



- 31 -
the failure of countries to act, for lengthy additional delays in making a
subloan required by IBRD's need for individual country guarantees. Although
IDA legal requirements are fewer, the other causes of delay still exist. IDA
would adopt the same policy on commitment fees as previously accepted by
IBRD. Borrowing countries would not be charged until disbursement on the
subloan is authorized by IDA.
7.07      Assignment of Rights.  The credit would be made to CDB and would be
part of its SFR operations.  As such CDB would not bear the credit risk.
Funds from the credit would be channelled through the special fund which CDB
would create for this purpose.  Pursuant to its charter, this fund would be
completely segregated from CDB's other assets and liabilities.  As under the
previous IDA credit, CDB will assign to IDA its rights to subloans made from
IDA resources.  Consequently, this approach would be equivalent to a direct
IDA credit to the country receiving it.  The governments would use or pass on
the proceeds on terms appropriate for each subproject and would thus retain
the full financial benefit of the IDA credit terms. Prior approval by IDA
would be required for each subloan. Recycling of IDA funds would be the
responsibility of the governments. The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by CDB's subborrowers in accordance with CPB's Charter, so consequently
subloans from the credit would be denominated in SDRs.
Disbursements
7.08      IDA funds would reimburse up to the percentages of project cost
discussed in para 7.04.  Both fixed assets and permanent working capital
would be eligible for financing. All disbursements would be made against
full documentation, except for smaller disbursements (presently less than
US$10,000) under DFC subloans for which disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditure with documentation retained by the local DFC. In
the latter case CDB would be responsible for periodic inspection and audits
of this documentation and would report to IDA on its adequacy. This system
is being used in the first IDA operation. IDA would reimburse CDB for
expenditures for eligible subprojects incurred after the date of the proposed
development credit agreement and no more than 180 days prior to the date on
which IDA receives a request for approval of a subloan. The delays in
committing the first credit, discussed in para. 5.09, are not expected to
occur in the second operation, because all but one of the eligible borrowing
countries are now members of IDA. The schedule of project disbursements
(Annex XI) differs in pattern but not length from the average disbursement
profile for DFC projects in the region. As a multilateral development bank
CDB is expected to lend project funds to different sectors in several
countries. Experience with two previous operations has shown that
disbursements are slower than indicated by the profile in the first three
years due to the longer time needed to meet legal requirements and the
complexity of a multitiered operation.  In the later years disbursements for
CDB's relatively simple and small subprojects are likely to be more rapid
than those of average DFC loans in the region. The proposed credit would
have a commitment period of two years from the time of loan signing.  This
means the latest date for subloan submission would be June 30, 1985 and the
closing date for disbursement would be June 30, 1989. A schedule of
estimated disbursements is given in Annex XI.



- 32 -
Procurement
7.09      As in the previous operation, public sector procurement of civil
works estimated to cost more than US$2 million, would be in accordance with
Bank guidelines with notification and international advertising as required
in para. 1.2 of the guidelines. Civil works costing less than US$2 million
but more than US$500,000 have the same procedures but would require only
local advertising and notification of local representatives of Bank member
countries. Procurement of equipment costing more than US$200,000 would be in
accordance with Bank guidelines with regional as well as local advertising
and notification to representatives as aforementioned. Public sector
procurement costing less than US$500,000 for civil works and US$200,000 for
equipment and all procurement by private borrowers and subborrowers of local
DFCs would be in accordance with CDB's guidelines which are more flexible to
deal more effectively with the private sector. Where contracts are financed
jointly with Bank and CDB resources, CDB would consider the advisability of
using the above procurement procedures for the entire contract, if they
likely result in a more reasonable price or other factors favorable to the
outcome of the Project. CDB's disbursement procedures are sound and are
diligently applied. It has laid down clear procedures which require the
borrower to present evidence that approved investments have been made.
Benefits and Risks
7.10      Through its continuing association with CDB, the Bank will be
supporting and strengthening both financially and institutionally the
Caribbean's primary development banking institution. By using CDB as an
intermediary, a greater number of smaller loans will be made in the Caribbean
region and at lower cost than IDA would be able to make directly. The IDA
credit would allow the smallest and poorest of the region's islands to
receive financing for priority projects on terms substantially more
concessionary than other sources provided by CDB.  The risks associated with
achieving these benefits are primarily related to the economic and physical
environment of the region. The promotion and implementation of projects in
the region have proven very sensitive to the progress being made by the
various island economies. Hurricanes can severely damage these fragile
economies and falling commodity prices can hurt their agricultural exports.
However, the risk that subloans will be committed and disbursed more slowly
than forecast, seems low for 1983-84 as subprojects which are presently
allocated to IDA (Annex XII) in CDB's pipeline for these two years are
substantial in number and well along in preparation.



- 33 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with CDR on the following:
(a) CDB would finance projects in accordance with its Policies and
Procedures Manual (para 4.03);
(b) CDB's Charter, Policies and Procedures Manual, and Lending and
Investments Policy will not be changed, if they would materially and
adversely affect its operations or financial condition.  It will also
send the Bank by September 30, 1983 a listing of proposed changes in
its documentation to reflect the recommendations of its organization
and management consultants (para 4.07);
(c) CDB would keep the Bank informed of its progress in implementing the
recommendations of its organization and management consultants (para
4.13);
(d) For an agreed sample of projects and for all projects expected to be
financed by IDA, CDB would send to IDA, for information, issues papers
and appraisal reports (para 4.16);
(e) CDB will revise its loan supervision procedures by March 31, 1984
(para 4.18);
(f) CDB's relending of the proposed credit to be limited to sectors in
which IDA itself lends but not to co-finance projects receiving Bank
Group Funds (para 7.02);
(g) IDA would finance up to 80% of subproject costs in all eligible
countries except Antigua (when it becomes eligible) and Montserrat
where the maximum would be up to 40%, and CDB would lend at least 60%
of the IDA funds to the three poorest countries (para 7.04);
(h) IDA would pay CDB the same fee for administering IDA funds as agreed
for the first IDA credit (para 7.05);
(i) CDB would not pay IDA its commitment fee on a subproject until
disbursement is authorized by IDA (para 7.06);
(j) CDB's assignment of rights to IDA of subloans (para 7.07);
(k) IDA approval of all subloans (para 7.07);
(1) CDB would use Bank guidelines for public sector procurement and permit
ICB in joint financing arrangements, if advisable (para 7.09).
Recommendation
8.02      The proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 6.5
million (US$7.0 million) on terms and conditions listed in Chapter VII.



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Basic Indicators for CARICOM Countries
1976-8 taT-      14TIF81                   1976-82   Current Account
GNP      Population        GNP      Annual       Gross Nat'l                    Annual        Deficit                       Share of Exports (Z) 1981
Area      Per Capita       (000)       (US$ M)  Real GDP    Savings/Gross  Opennessb/    Real            Share     Per                         Alumina/             Manufac- Petro-
(Sq.Mi.)   (Atlas 1981)   1981            1981      Growth      Nat'l Product                   Export    of GDP   Capita   Touriss Sugar  Bauxite  Bananas   tures               leum
Rate (x)          (2)                        Growth    (%) c/   ($) d/
-______                                       Rate (%)        -         -
Antigua 6 Barbuda             170       1,560           76           118         7.0            5.8           1.67         5.9        36       740          60                -           -         9        -
Bahamas                     5,383      3,630           214           777         4.7            n.a.          2.12          1.1        3       310           56       -       -           -         -
Barbados                      166      3,450           250           885.        4.5           14.1           1.32         8.3         6       375           53       6       -           -        18        _
Belize                      8,866       1,110          149           165         2.9           13.9           1.74         6.0        13       150            6      27       -           7         7        -
Do,minica                     293         660           84            56       -1.4           -12.2           1.31        -5.7        46       260           20       -       -          40         -        -
Grenada                       134         880          110            97         3.6            4.7            1.03         1.0       20        225          39       -        -           7        7        -
Guvana                    83,000          720          798           575        -1.1            4.3            1.56       -2.9        19       250            -      29      42           -         -        _
Jamaica                     4,411       1,180        2,198         2,594        -1.7            6.9            1.06         1.6        9       190           20       2      53           6        10        -
ttontserrat                    40       1,640           12            19         6.6          -12.4            1.36        4.3        34       540           71       -        -          -        12        -
St. Kitts-Nevis               105       1,010           50            51         3.6            5.0            1.48       -5.5        17       250           30      43        -          -         2        -
St. Lucia                     241       1,000          119           119         4.2           12.9            1.71        6.3        32       450           52       -       -          22        12        -
St. Vincent & Gren.           152         630          110            69         6.0           18.3            1.84       11.1        16         46          34       -        -         14         2        -
Trinidad & Tobago           1,980       5,270        1,187         6,256         6.1           36.1             .90       -4.8        (3)     (450)           4       -       -           -         4       72
Other LAG Countries:
H.itl                     14,600          300        5,120         1,336         3.1            0.1             .40        4.0         6         22          25       -       7           -        29        -
Suiriname                 63,050        3,040          353         1,067         4.0           10.2           1.13         2.6         7       310            -       -      67           1         1        -
Brazil                 3,286,502       2,210      121,016       368,130          5.1           16.2             .21        9.9         5         91
Peru                     496,220       1,120       18,100        20,260          2.1           14,5             .35        5.3         2         84
aF- rowth rates calculated on semi-log trend basis.
b/ Ratio of imports plus exports to GDP.
cJ 1979-81.
d/1981.
d!  l9l
I0S 



- 35 -
ANNEX I
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK               Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Basic Indicators for OECS Countries
GNP Per Capita US$
Adjusted with    Adjusted with
Area        Population        GNP                  IMF Exchange       IMF Exchange
Sq. Miles        ('000)       US$ Min.     Atlas       Rate 1 a/       Rate 2 b/
Antigua         109               76          118.3       1,556         1,482           1,445
Dominica        293               84           55.8         664           608              572
Grenada         134              84            96.7         879           805              630
Montserrat       40               11.6          19.0      1,639         1,454           1,470
St. Kitts-      105              50.5          51.1       1,011         1,023           1,015
Nevis
St. Lucia       241              119          118.8         998           989             948
St. Vincent    152               110           69.4         631           639             604
Total/Average 1,074              561.1         529.0         943           907             846
Average without
Antigua and
Montserrat                                                   827           800             735
a/ Assuming exchange rate equilibrium in 1976.
b/ Assuming exchange rate equilibrium in 1978.



CARIBBEAN  DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
ORDINARY eAPITAL RESoURCES
STATEMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TO CAPITAL STOCK AND VOTING POWER
Dece-ber 31, 1982 .td 1981
Expressed in thousands of UrnIted ttateS dollars - Note A
Votir2 Power           Rttcciabic frDm Mtmbets
Number    Percent    Total                                                     NumHber     Percent of         Non-nugoti.bic
of         of    Subscribed   Callable        Paid-up    Subscriptions         of           tot.al              demand
Hember                 Shares    Total       Capital      Capital       Capital        Matured        votes           votes                notes
Re-ional States and
Territories
.Jae-.ita               7,764     18.72    46,830         36,124        10,706        9,126           7,514          17, 004168  (2)
Trinidad arid Tobago   5,340      12.87    32,209         24.845         7,364        6,276           5,4090         1243
Raha-nas                2.238      5.52     13,801        10,646         3,155        2,689           2,438           5.52                 116
Colorb2a                2,080      5.02     12,546         9,681         2,865        2,1442          2 ,230          5.05
!e-~ X.; co             2,0b0      5.01     12,5246        9,681         2,8f 5          573          2,230           5.05
VcCz,ceIa              2.080      5.02     12,;46.        9,681         2,865        2,442           2,230           5.05
Guyama                  1,664      4.01     10,037         7,745         2,292        1,953          t!,14           4.10                  156
Barbados                1,457      3.51      8,788         6,780         2,008        1,710           1;607          3.64                  116
Be;i ze                   35       0.83      2,081         1,604           477           407            495           1.12
DOoinica                  345      0.83      2.081         1,604           477           407            495          1.12                  102                                 1
Srenada                   345      0.83      2,081         1,604           477           407            435           t.12                 1 7 7
St. Lucia                 345      0.83      2.081         1,604           477           407            4t35         1.12                  104                                 a,
St. Vincent               345      0.93      2,081         1,604           477          407             4)5          1.12                  142                                 1
Anti 'U                    345     0.83      2,081         1 604           477           407            435          1.12                   '9
St. Kitts/Nevis           345      0.83      2,081         1,604           477          407             455          1.12                   42  (3)
A,;-i  Sla                  87     0.21         525          407            118           23)
.8     0.21         525          407            118          101)
Oritisli Viroin Islands   87       0.21         525          407            128         101)  (1)
tay:.na  Islands            87     U.?l         525          407           118           10t)           5E5          1.32
Tjrt,s and Cailcos
sIeCr,ds                  87      0.71        525          407            1I1          101)
27,603    66.54   166,495        128,446        38,049       30,487          30,003         67.90                5,202
ion-reoelonal States
C-!a a                  6,340t    16.73    41,8$C        32,300          9,560        8,149          7,05          16.05               1.02 0                              m
United Kinlgr2m       _ 6.1'0     16.73    4_Fi56t        32,300         9.560        8.1414        7.0C0          16 O05_                          _ 54!1'_ _
13,880    33.46    83,720         64,6OC         19,170      16,298          14,183         32.10                1.R60
TOTAL - 1.932          41,483   100.00  S250,215    $193,046            57,169       46,785         44,183         100.00               7,24?
TOTAL - 1981           33,316   100. 0   52.37,144    S182,958          541,186      42,193         41 86          10 u                 5 6,062
;'2)TION,.! 5tJ5UBSC.1PTKCNS                 i,P1r           90i5          9?^          r 05
_ l-.D  a(w 2 i4, 8     1! . .!*33     28 7
:i , 1         nj?5
To7 - 1392                                   -,39'3        6.650          ,223       2
Tr,T,.                                  ,20 -         ,12 _
(1)  In accordance with  Article 3 paragraph  4 of  the Agreement  EstabLishing  the Bank,  these  territories  are  considered  as  a
single member of the Bank.
(2)  Includes  interest-bearing  notes  of  1,043.
(3)  IncLudes  interest-bearing  notes  of  5.



- 37 -
37 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX III
CARIBBEAN DEVELOP=NT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CDB: Principal Loan Terms and Conditions
(as of January 1, 1983)
Ordinary Resources      Soft Recourses
Interest Rates-/
Governments                                   127                    4%
Private Sector                                12% 
Upper Loan Limits
LDC Governments                       80% of project cost    90% of project cost
2IDC Governments                      70% of project cost    80% of project cost
Private Sector                        2/3 of project cost
Lower Loan Limits                     US$100,000               US$100,000
Commitment Fee                        1% p.a. on undisbursed
balance 60 days after       -
Loan Agreement signed
Term & Grace Period
Government:  Grace Period                   2 years            Up to 5 years
Term after grace period            10-15 years           15-20 years
Private Sector:  Grace Period            Up to 5 years             -
Term after grace period                 5-10 years
(industry and tourism projects)         (15-18 years)
Exchange Risk                         Borne by borrower        Borne by borrower
or guarantor            or guarantor
1/ Includes: for OCR 1% commission required by CDB's Articles of Agreement
and a Special Reserve against losses; for SFR, 1% service charge.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
BOARD OF GOVERNORS                               January 1, 1983
Dr. Eduardo Wiesner Duran       Colombia                          Chairman
Hon. E. P. G. Seaga              Jamaica                          Vice-Chairman
Mr. Neil Marten                  United-Kingdom                   Vice-Chairman
COUNTRY                          GOVERNOR                         ALTERNATE GOVERNOR
Antigua                          Hon. John Eugene St. Luce        Mr. A. Guishard
Minister of Finance              Budget Director
Bahamas                          Hon. A. D. Hanna                 Vacant
Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Finance
Barbados                         Hon. H. B. St. John              Mr. W. L. Blackett
Deputy Prime Minister and       Acting Managing Director
Minister o!'Caribbear.           Barbados National Bank
Affairs, External Trade
and Industry
Belize                          H-n. Said Musa                    Mr. Hugh D. McCain
Attorney Generai and Minister    Permanent Secretary and
of Education and Sports and      Head. Planning Unit
Anmbassador to CAR ICOM
Canada                           Hon. Allan J. MacEachen          Mr. Marcel Masse
Minister ot'Finance              President
Canadian International
Development Agency
Colombia                         Dr. Eduardo Wiesner Duran       Dr. Hugo Palocios-Y!ejia
Minister of Finance and          President
Public Credit                    Banco de la Republica
Dominica                         Hon. Mary Eugenia Charles        Mr. Alick Lazare
Prime Minister and Minister      Financial Secretary
for Finance and External
Affairs
Grenada                          Hon. Bernard Coard               Mr. L. F. Wilson. Jr.
Deputv Prime Minister and        Permanent Secretary
Minister ot Finance. Trade      (Finance)
and Planning
Guvana                           Hon. H. D. Hovte                 Hon. Sallahuddin
Vice-lresident                   Minister, Finance
Economic Planniny and Finance   Ministry of Economic
Planning and Finance
Jamaica                          Hon. E. P. G. Seaga              Mr. Horace Barber
Primc Minister and Minisrer      Financial Secretary
o Finance



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Mexico                            Mr. Jesus Silva-Herzog F.          Mr. Miguel Mancera
Minister of Treasury and          Director General
Public Credit                     Bank of Mlexico
Montserrat
British Virgin Islands            Hon. H. L. Stoutt                  Hon. J. Osborne
Cayman Islands                    Chief Minister                     Chief Minister
Turks and Caicps Islands           Fritish Virgin Islands            Montserrat
Anguilla
St. Kitts/Nevis                   Hon. Simeon Daniel                 Hon. Richard Caines
Minister of Finance               Parliamentary Secretary
Ministry of' Finance
St. Lucia                         Hon. John G. M. Conipton           Mr. D. Venner
Prime Minister and Minister       Director of Finance
of Finance                        and Planning
St. Vincent                       Hon. R. NM. Cato                   Vacant
Prime Minister and Minister
of Finance
Triiiidad & Tobago                Hon. George Chambers               Senator the Hon.
Prime Minister and Minister       Charles A. Jacelon
ot' Finance and Planning          Minister in the Ministrv
of Finance and Planning
United Kingdom                    Mr. Neil Martenl                   Mr. A. G. Hurrell
Minister of State for             Under-Secretary
Foreign and Commonw ealth         Asia and the Oceans Divisions
Affairs and MiniKter of           Overseas Development
Overseas Development              Administration
Foreign and Commonwealth
Office
Venezuela                         Dr. Herman Luis Soriano            Dr. Amrv Touron
Minister of State and             Minister Counsellor
President                         Director ot' International
Venezuela Investment Fund         Cooperation
Ministry of Foreigrn
Relations



_ 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIRECTOR                           ALTERNATE DIRECTOR                  COUNTRY OR GROUP OF
COUNTRIES
Regional
Mr. H. G. Barber                   Mrs. M. O'Reggio                   Jamaica
Mr. T. A. Harewood                 Mr. R. Yearwood                     Trinidad & Tobago
Mr. D. Augustin                    Mr. I. Hamilton                     Guyana
Mr. S. Emtage                      Mr. H. Williams                     Barbados
Mr. W. Rolle                       Mr. E. A. Marshalleck               Bahamas and Belize
Mr. D. Venner                      Mr. B. La Corbiniere                Dominica. Grenada, St. Lucia and
St. Vincent
Mr. A. Guishard                    Mr. S. Mills                        Antigua, St. Kitts/Nevis. British Virgin
Islands, Cavman Islands, Mont. rrat,
Turks & Caicos Islands, Anguilla.
Dr. J, V. Mogollon                 Dr. H. Mejia                       Colombia
Dr. A. Viloria Viloria             Mrs. 1. Antoninii                  Venezuela
Mr. F. Suarez                      Mr. R. Penaloza                    Mexico
Non-Regional
Mr. B. Dare                        Mr.  J. Knockaert                  Canada
Mr. K. A. F. Woolverton            Mr. 1. Stickels                    lJnited Kingdom
PRLNCIPAL OFFICERS OF THE BANK
President                                        Mr. William G. Demas
Vice-President , Gen. Counsel and                Mr. Neville V. Nicholls
Acting Director of Project Dept.
Secretary                                        Mr. Crispin A. Sorhaindo
Director. Administration and Management
Services Department                            Mr. Alphonso B. Tapper
Director. Economics and Programming
Department                                     Mr. St. Rose
Treasurer and Controller                         Mr. F.A.R. Mullings



- 41 -
CARIBBEEN DEVEL0PNBNT BANK
STAFF APFKAISAL REPORT
TOTED CARIBBEAN OEO'TEPMN-T BATE  ROOECE
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ORgonizoBoR Chadt
(AB Of 1/1183)
I                        I-I                                                               I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 ,PFE  p                                                                                     r0,I                                                                                                                              =
OSBSTPKKSKK      X      OO                                         POPPS       X     OE             OPIEI  X         X1000...............- 1 A, ,
FRFOFRSKF&                LORIO        PEKPFOP1 OS                     r'.;                                                                                                                  ORKEF            1100F       "1 ""'                                        S0 P-          r
OFES,     ROAR,            SPPAFS                                                     020  RPCRKR                                                                              SP             ,
U ~ ~ ~~~~OK                                                        P2FE0PKOPEEO pu1 AOP -ppr M,1 -oesSyI                                                                                                         E                   
0202000  UFLP,KPROK'  P7Fo  E ZEKKFP         10200                                                0P          CEOP
'0O 00P0'FPPK PSP   Opechn~2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        oPofCc  OPsm  P 0






- 42 -
ANNEX VI
Table 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Distribution of Loans Approved (net)
by Sector and by Fund (1970-1982)
(US$'000)
SECTOR
OCR       VTF       SFR        TOTAL      % OF
Agriculture, Forestry
& Fishing                        11,237       -       23,033    34,270        8.8
Manufacturing                      16,503    2,695    57,220    76,418        19.7
Tourism                             4,735    4,725        -        9,460       2.4
Transport and
Communications                   30,455       -       73,367   103,822       26.8
Power, Energy &
Water                            20,795    4,348    18,466    43,609         11.2
Social & Personal
Services (incl. housing)            201       -       28,106    28,307        7.3
Multi-Sector and
Other 1,                          7,200       -        7,050    14,250        3.7
DFCs Multi-sector                 33,568      5,987   38,364    77,919 2/   20.1
Totals                           124,694    17,755  245,6063/ 388,055         100.0
1/  Primarily disaster relief and urban development
tI  Approximately 45% of this amount was for agriculture, 29% manufacturing
and 20% housing.
3/  US$63.5 million of this amount is made up of CDF balance of payment
support through project counterpart funding for MDCs.



CARRI BEAN DE\ ELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPR,ISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Characteristics of Subloans Made In the Second Operation
Amount         Interest to         % of     Economic   Financial   Grace    Repayment
Country        USS'OOO       Final Borrower   CDB Loan    Return          Return    Period       Period      Sector                    Comments
OCR Lending
Flood Damage           Jamaica          1,500              9               25          -             -          5          15        Transport
Mortgage Finance                        3,000             10              32            -            -          5          12        Housing              40% of subprojects
Water Supply                            3,600              9             100          30            21          5          15        Water Supply         68% of project
Seals & Packaging      Guyana          2,600            10-1/2            25          34            14          4          11        Industry
Sugar Mlil             Barbados        3,000            10-1/2            22           19          11 2/    1-1/2          12        Agroindustry
Clay Products              "            1,100           10-1/2            46          26            16 T/       2          10        Industry
Industry Credit        Bahamas         2,000          10-1/2-12           66           -            -          5           15       Agri./ind.            80% of subproject
Electricity            St. VIncent        700              9              23           12            -          3          15        Energy
Electricity            St. Lucia       2,100            10-1/2            62            -            -          4          10        Energy
Airport                Cayman Is.      4,000            10-1/2            45          20            10          3          15        Transport            45% of expenditures
23,600
IDA Credit
DFC Equity             Antigua            BOO          9-11-1/2           50            -            -          2          12        Agri./Ind.
Port                   Dominica         3,000              1             100            -            -         10          40        Transport            BO%
Water Supply           Grenada            700              4              45           17            3          5          20        Water
DFC Equity             Dominica           300            9-12             23            -            -          2          12        Agrl./lnd.
DFC Equity             St. Lucia          400            9-12              20           -            -          2          12        Agri./Ind.           80% of subprojects                  t 
Feeder Roads           St. Kltts        1,115             3/4             80          11             -         10          40        AgrI./Transpor-t
Electricity I/         St. Vincent    1,685                9               56          12            -          3          15        Energy
8,000
1/ Includes USS1 million EEC Special Action Credit.
2/ After tax.



- 44 -
ANNEX VII
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
World Bank Group Technical Assistance Provided to CDB
since effectiveness of Loan 1775-Credit 960-CRG
1. EDI Courses
January 1980 - C. Sohan, Sanitary Engineer, 6 week course in
project appraisal.
November 1982 - P. Carmichael, Assistant Director (Industry),
3-week course in Industry in Small Economies.
2. Training Visits to IBRD Headquarters
February 1980 - S. Singh, Assistant Director, Project Supervision
one week of discussion on project supervision.
January 1981 - B. Charles, Project Coordinator (PATU), 4-day visit
to EDI to discuss and obtain course outlines and materials.
October 1982 - D. Brunton, Post Evaluation Officer and A. Leacock,
Assistant Director, Loan Supervision, one week review of loan supervision and
operations evaluation procedures.
January 1983 - R. Mullings, Treasurer and Controller and M. St.
Rose, Director of Economics and Programming, one week review of financial
policy issues and computer financial forecasting model.
3. Visits to CDB Headquarters by IBRD Staff outside of LCPII
May 1980 - B. Bostrom, Transport Economist - three-day visit to
discuss transport sector policy paper and project appraisal methodology
related to the Dominica Port Reconstruction Project.
July 1980 - J. Sargent, Transport Economist - 2-day visit to
discuss road components of transport sector policy paper, and transport
sector subproject pipeline.
June 1980 - J. Callahan and C. Warren, one-day meeting to discuss
Energy sector policy paper.



- 45 -
October 1980 - P. Ram, Agriculture Economist, 6 days to discuss
Sector Policy Paper and supervision of projects.
October 1980 - S. Gupta, DFC officer, EMENA, 10 days to visit LDC
DFCs and discuss plans for restructuring these institutions.
February 1981 - P. Owusu, Financial Analyst, 6 days joined
preappraisal mission for St. Vincent Electricity Project as advisor.
July 1981 - P. Ram, Agricultural Economist, 6 days supervision of
subprojects, discussion of sector policies and general technical assistance.
October 1981 - P. Owusu, Financial Analyst and J. Callahan, Power
Engineer, one day, review appraisal methodology for St. Vincent Electricity
Project.
February 1982 - K. Sierra, Transport Economist and 0. Raggambi,
Engineer, 2 days, reviewed appraisal methodology for two subprojects under
preparation.
4. Joint Missions of IBRD/CDB Staff
May 1980 - C. Sohan, Sanitary Engineer - one week, joined IBRD
Supervision Mission of Jamaica Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
1980 - Joint preappraisal and appraisal missions to co-finance
Barbados Power and Light Project - 7 days.
1980 - Joint missions to supervise Guyana Power Projects - 4 days.
1981 - O. Robertson, DFC officer - one week, joined IBRD appraisal
mission of Bahamas Urban Project.
1982 - R. Kamath, Deputy Director, Project Design and Analysis, one
week, joint review of policy statement and operating criteria for new
National Development Bank, Jamaica.
1982 - P. Morgan, Project Officer, Industry, one week participation
in IBRD country economic mission to St. Lucia.
5. Desk reviews of subprojects not financed by IBRD
May 1980 - Urban Projects Tourism Advisory Unit reviewed and
commented on a Bahamas hotel project appraisal.
October 1982 - Central Projects Telecommunications Division
reviewed and commented on a Jamaica Telecommunications project.



- 46 -
6. Calculation of IBRD Staff Time
Assumptions
(a) that IBRD staff time associated with category 2 above is equal to 50% of
CDB staff time in this category. (29 days x .5 = 14.5 days)
(b) that IBRD staff time associated with category 3 above is equal to the
days listed plus 1.5 days of report writing on return of mission. (41
days plus 9 missions x 1.5 = 54.5 days)
(c) that IBRD staff time associated with category 4 above is equal to 25% of
CDB time in this category. (32 x .25 = 8 days)
(d) that IBRD desk reviews and report writing took 1.5 days each (2 x 1.5 = 3
days)
(e) total days not including EDI courses = 80 days . 5 = 16 weeks.



- 47 -
ANNEX VIII
Table 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Statements of Income, 1978-1982
(millons of US$)
Actual
1978       1979      1980      1981      1982
Ordinary Capital Resources
Income from loans and mortgages                     2.0        1.9       2.4       3.6       4.9
Income from short-term investments                  1.7        2.7       4.0       5.9       7.0
Other                                               0.1        0.2       0.1       0.3       0.3
Total Income                                    3.8         4.8       6.5       9.8      12.2
Financial expenses                                  1.7        1.9       3.3       4.6       6.2
Administrative expenses (net)                       0.2        0.3       0.8       1.5       2.1
Total Expenses                                   1.9        2.2       4.1       6.1       8.3
Net Income                                          1.9        2.6       2.4       3.7       3.9
SDF Operations
income from loans and mortgages                     1.9        3.1       3.5       5.1       6.2
Income from short-term investments                  1.9        3.3       4.6       6.4       7.5
Income from grants                                  0.5        1.4       3.6       7.7       8.8
Total Income                                     4.3        7.8      11.7      19.2      22.5
Charges on contributions                            0.9        0.9       1.5       2.0       2.4
Administrative expenses                             1.7        2.3       2.4       2.7       3.4
Technical assistance                                0.5        1.6       3.9       7.9       9.0
Total Expenses                                   3.1        4.8       7.8      12.6      14.8
Net Income                                          1.2        3.0       3.9       6.6       7.7
Venezuela Trust Fund Operations
Income from loans                                   0.6        0.7       0.9       0.9       1.0
Income from short-term investments                  0.7        1.6       1.8       2.1       1.6
Total Income                                     1.3        2.3       2.7       3.0       2.6
Commissions on short-term placements a/              -          -         -         -         -
Net Income                                       1.3        2.3       2.7       3.0       2.6
a/ Amounts less than US$100,000 equivalent in each year.



- 48 -
ANNEX VIII
Table 2
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets, 1978 to 1982
(millions of US$)
Actual
December 31                                     1978      1979      1980      1981    1982
Ordinary Capital Resources
Cash and Investments                               31.0      41.3      43.5      49.8    51.0
Loans and Secondary Mortgages                      23.1      27.6      36.9      49.8    59.9
Receivable from Members                             6.3       6.0       7.5       9.7    12.1
Other Assets (net)                                  2.5       3.4       5.2       8.1      6.6
Total Assets                                   62.9      78.3      93.1    117.4   129.6
Borrowings                                         18.6      30.9      38.2      54.9    58.3
Capital and Reserves                               44.3      47.4      54.9      62.5    71.3
Total Liabilities and Capital                  62.9       78.3     93.1    117.4   129.6
SDF Operations
Cash and Investments                               26.7      31.5      40.4      49.8    54.0
Loans and Secondary Mortgages                      61.9      87.9    119.5    143.9   164.8
Receivable from Contributions                       6.8       2.0       -        11.4      7.5
Other Assets (net)                                  0.7      (3.9)    (0-3)      (0-9)    2.4
Total Assets                                   96.1    117.5    159.6    204.2   228.7
Contributed Resources                              90.1    108.6    146.7    184.9   202.5
Reserves                                            6.0       8.9      12.9      19.3    26.2
Total Liabilities and Reserves                 96.1    117.5    159.6    204.2   228.7
Venezuelan Trust Fund
Cash and Investments                               12.7      17.0      14.2      14.3    12.3
Loans                                               7.9       9.2      11.3      11.7    12.4
Other Assets (net)                                  0.6       0.5       0.7       0.7      1.4
Total Assets                                    21.2     26.7       26.2      26.7    26.1
Contributions                                      20.3      25.0      25.0      25.0    24.4
Reserves                                            0.9       1.7       1.2       1.7      1.7
Total Liabilities and Reserves                 21.2       26.7      26.2      26.7    26.1



- 49 -
ANNEX IX
Table 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources
Forecast Statement of Income and Expenses
1983-1987
(thousands of US$)
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
Income from:
Cash deposits                       469       318       371       446       492
Short term investments            4,328    3,824    3,371    3,371    3,491
Loans                             6,061    7,947   10,059   11,914   13,663
Commitment fees                     439       347       313       307       314
Secondary mortgages                 126       136       147       157       168
Other                               300       300       300       300       300
Total Income               11,722   12,872   14,562    16,495  18,398
Expenses
Cost of borrowing:
Long term                       5,670    6,674    7,381    8,307    9,120
Commitment fees                   132        70        30        12         3
Administrative and other
expenses                    2,570    2,480    2,600    2,750    3,000
Total Expenses              8,372    9,224   10,011   11,069    12,123
Net Income                          3,350    3,649    4,551    5,426    6,275
January 1983
LCPI1



- 50 -
ANNEX IX
Table 2
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources
Forecast Balance Sheets
(1983-1987)
(million of US$)
December 31                           1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
Cash                                   3.8       4.2       5.1       6.0       6.3
Investments                         53.1      42.5      41.8      42.5      44.8
Loans - net                         74.4      95.3    112.2    126.0    138.5
Second mortgages                     1.2       1.4       1.4       1.5       1.7
Receivables from nembers              14.5      18.6      20.9      23.2      24.9
Other receivables                      7.2       6.9       6.7       6.7       6.9
Fixed assets                           2.9       5.3       5.4       5.6       5.8
Total Assets                       157.1    174.2    193.5    211.5    228.8
Current liabilities                     2.1       2.2       2.4      2.6        2.8
Long term borrowings                  75.6      80.5      90.7      98.6    106.0
Total Liabilities                   77.7      82.7      93.1    101.2    108.8
Paidup capital                        53.7      62.1      66.5      70.9      74.4
Retained earnings and reserves        25.7      29.4      33.9      39.4      45.6
Total Capital                       79.4      91.5    100.4    110.2    120.0
Total Liabilities and Capital        157.1    174.2    193.5    211.5    228.8
January 1983
LCPII



- 51 -
ANNEX TX
Table 3
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources
Forecast Cash Flow
1983-1987
(millions of US$)
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
Sources of Funds
Cash income from operations          3.4       3.6       4.6       5.4       6.3
Loan repayments                      2.0       2.6       3.7       5.9       8.7
Long term borrowings                18.2       6.7      12.8      11.3      10.8
Shareholders payments for
capital subscriptions              2.4       4.2       2.2       2.2       1.8
Net reduction in other assets        0.4       0.4       0.3       0.2      (0.1)
Total Sources                     26.4      17.6      23.6      25.0      27.5
Uses of Funds
Investments in fixed assets          2.1       2.4       0.1       0.2       0.2
Disbursements on loans              17.5      23.6      20.6      19.7      21.2
Increase in second mortgages         0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
Maturing current borrowing            -         -         -         -         -
Maturing long term borrowing         0.9       1.7       2.6       3.4       3.4
Total Uses                        20.6      27.8      23.4      23.4      24.9
Increase in cash and investments
during year                          5.8    (10.2)       0.2       1.6       2.6
Balances End of Years
Cash                                 3.8       4.2       5.1       6.0       6.3
Investments                         53.1      42.5      41.8      42.5      44.8
56.9     46.7       46.9      48.5      51.1
January 1983
LCPI1



- 52 -
ANNEX IX
Table 4
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
SDF Financial Projections, 1983 to 1987
(millions of US$)
Summarized Balance Sheets                                               Forecast
December 31                                    1983      1984      1985    1986       1987
Cash and invetments                                60.6      63.1      64.9    68.1       70.0
Loans and secondary mortgages                     197.4    221.5    237.1   254.4    271.0
Receivable from contributors                        5.0       -         -        -         -
Other assets (net)                                  2.3       2.4       2.5      2.6       2.7
Total Assets                                  265.3    287.0    304.5   325.1    343.7
Contributed resources                             233.4    248.9    260.0   273.9    285.4
Reserves                                           31.9      38.1      44.5    51.2       58.3
Total Liabilities and Reserves                265.3    287.0    304.5   325.1    343.7
Summarized Statements of Income Year
Income from loans and mortgages                     7.3       8.4       9.2      9.8      10.5
Income from short-term invetments                   5.3       5.1       5.0      5.2       5.4
Income from grants                                  7.2       5.3       3.8      4.3       4.5
Total Income                                    19.8     18.8      18.0    19.3       20.4
Charges on contributions                            2.5       3.0       3.1      3.2       3.4
Administrative expenses                             3.9       4.2       4.5      4.9       5.2
Technical assistance                                7.4       5.4       4.0      4.5       4.7
Total Expenses                                 14.2       12.6      11.6    12.6      13.3
Net Income                                          6.0       6.2       6.4      6.7       7.1



- 53 -
ANNEX X
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Assumptions used in Financial Projections
I. General
Lending Operations
1.        Projected operations were prepared by CDB and revised by Bank
staff. Allocations between hard and soft lending were based on historical
shares which reflect CDB's policy of lending 70% of SDF resources to the
LDC's and the balance to the MDCs. LDCs also receive a share of hard
resources generally to finance private sector revenue earning projects. Most
hard lending is channeled through CDB's OCR; however, a share of hard lending
has been financed through CDB's Trust Fund operations.  It has been assumed
that future CDB hard lending operations financed by the Bank and IDB will be
channeled through separate trust or special funds. CDB's projected
operations and allocations among funds are as follows:
(US$ million)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
OCR                               24.0    18.0    20.0    22.0    24.0
Trust Funds                        1.0      9.0    10.0    11.0    12.0
Total hard lending              25.0    27.0    30.0          33.0    36.0
SFR                               23.0    25.7    27.6    29.7    32.0
Total Approvals                   48.0    52.7    57.6    62.7    68.0
Administrative Expenses
2.        CDB's total administrative expenses have grown as follows in recent
years:



- 54 -
(US$ 000's)
Budget
1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982          1983
Staff costs                          678  1,022  1,190  1,240  1,759  2,054  2,695  3,750   4,281
Other costs                           559   630   638   724  1,147  1,316  1,743  1,812      2,065
Total costs                         1,237  1,652  1,828  1,964 2,906  3,370 4,438  5,562     6,346
Average niber of staff                 90   108   120   134  162   186        205   223        231
of which financed under Technical
Assistance                           12    13    14    19    25    27    29    22             16
Expenses allocated as follows:
Charged to OCR                      545   471   440   326   599   992  1,501  1,900
Charged to SFR                      578   944  1,300  1,540 2,101  2,375 2,639  3,500
Technical Assistance Grants         114   237    88    97   206        3   298   162    _
1,237  1,652  1,828  1,964  2,906  3,370 4,438  5,562   6,346
Administrative expenses as a per-
centage of coditted loans
outstanding                                            1.35   1.39   1.30  1.50   1.68      1.78
Administrative expenses have grown fairly rapidly in recent years largely due
to steady increases in staff, increased staff pay and benefits particularly
since 1981, and the effects of general inflation on other costs. Relatively
large salary increases were granted in 1982 to make staff salaries
competitive and part of the increase in the 1982 contract will be given in
1983. Thereafter the growth in administrative expenses should be closer to
general inflation. It was assumed that such expenses would increase at 6% a
year plus 3% real growth (i.e. increases in staff or real staff
compensation). Administrative expenses for the forecast period were
projected on this and are shown below.
3.         Administrative costs have been divided between hard and soft
lending operations on the basis of the number of operations appraised and
under supervision in each. As a result, SFR is charged a large share of
expenses not only because of the larger share of its operations in financial
terms but also because of their small average size. A share of
administrative expenses was also charged to the trust funds on the same basis
as follows:
(US$ million)
1983      1984       1985       1986      1987
OCR                                            2.320      2.180      2.300     2.430      2.650
Trust Funds                                    -           .400       .600       .800      .950
SFR                                            3.938      4.241     4.535      4.874      5.233
6.258     6.821      7.435      8.104     8.833



- 55 -
Loan Approvals by Sector
Loan approvals were allocated to sectors as follows compared with
the past:
Distribution
1970-1981         1982-1986
(M)               (%)
Productive Sectors
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing           22.4               29.0
Manufacturing                               21.3               28.0
Tourism                                      3.0                8.0
46.7              65.0
Infrastructure
Power and Energy                            10.8               12.0
Water and Sewerage                           4.7                5.0
Transporation and Communication             27.8                9.0
Housing                                      8.6                7.5
Student Loans                                1.4                1.5
53.3              35.0
Grand Total                                  100.0              100.0
The principal change in future CDB lending is a shift from
transportation projects, where many of the most pressing needs for investment
have been filled, to the productive sectors in order to create much needed
employment.
II. OCR Assumptions
Loan projections were based on the lending level in para. one.
Based on recent experience it was assumed that 8% of approvals were cancelled
and that the remaining new loan approvals were committed as follows:
In the year of approval                 15%
In the following year                   80
In the second year after approval        5
100%
Disbursement rates for committed loans were assumed to be as follows, also
based on past experience:



- 56 -
Year
-  1     2         3         4         5
Agriculture, Forestry and
Fishing                        5        25       40        30
Manufacturing                   25        55        20        -         -
Tourism                         30        60        10        -         -
Power and Energy                20        55        25        -         -
Water and Sewerage               8        35        40       17
Transportation and
Communication                 15        35       30        20
Through DFCs and Sectoral
Credits
- Agriculture                  5        15       25        45        10
- Industry and Tourism         5        15       35        40         5
- Industrial Estates          10        25       20        25        20
- Housing                      5        35       40        20         -
Average Grace and Loan Repayment Periods
(Years)
Term to Maturity
Grace Period   (including grace period)
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing               4                     14
Manufacturing                                   3                     16
Tourism, Power, Energy                          4                     18
Water and Sewerage, Transportation              4                     19
DFCs and Sectoral Credits for
Agriculture, Industry, Tourism,
Industrial Estates                            4                     19
Housing                                       2                     20
Lending Rates
From the 1982 onlending rate of 10-1/2%, it was assumed that
the lending rate, which was increased to 12% effective January 1, 1983, would
remain at 12% throughout the forecast period. This is 2% above the expected
cost of new borrowing which was assumed to be 10% of p.a. from 1983. CDB
also charges a 1% commitment fee on undisbursed balances.
Shareholders Subscriptions
Some US$8 million of the $20 million increase approved in 1979
is to be paid in 1982-84. In addition the following capital subscriptions
were assumed in 1984:



- 57 -
US$ Million
Trinidad and Tobago (increase to Jamaica's level)          3.3
France                                                     8.6
Amount to maintain relative shares of members              2.0
13.9
All payments will be half in cash and half in notes to be drawn down when
CDB's resource needs warrant it. It was assumed that no notes would be
repaid in the forecast period.
Borrowings
It was assumed that all new contracted borrowings totalling $30
million during the period would be market borrowings at 10% p.a. (2% p.a.
below CDB's lending rate). If market borrowing costs rise CDB would increase
its lending rate accordingly.
Administrative Expenses
The bases for calculating CDB's administrative expenses are
indicated in para. 3 above. CDB also has other expenses estimated as follows
principally representing the cost of foreign exchange transactions.
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Other expenses                   0.25    0.3       0.3     0.32    0.35
Interest Rates on Other Assets
Interest rates on cash and short term investments were assumed to
be 2% below CDB's cost of long term funds. The interest rate on secondary
mortgages is the current rate on such loans.
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Cash                              8        8       8        8        8
Short term investments            9        8       8        8        8
Secondary mortgages             10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5
Acquisition of Fixed Assets
A new building costing some $4.8 million and computer equipment
costing $0.85 million will be acquired. Average depreciation of 4% p.a. was
assumed.



- 58 -
Other Assumptions
Other income was projected to be $0.3 million roughly the level
attained in 1981 and 1982. Liquidity was maintained at roughly the level of
the next two years loan disbursements reflecting current CDB policy.
III. Special Fund Resources Assumptions
Projections were based on the lending forecast given in paragraph
one. As in the case of OCR loans, 8% of approved loans were assumed to be
cancelled. New loan approvals were assumed to be committed 20% in the year
of approval and 80% in the following year based on past experience.
Disbursements of new commitments were calculated as follows:
Year                                    1     2      3     4      Total
Percentage                             15    35    30    20        100
These percentages represent the weighted average of disbursements for the
various sectors based on past experience.
Contributions from donors were as follows:
US$ millions
General SDF                             7.0  (Mexico)
Federal Republic of Germany             7.3
IDA                                     7.0
IDB                                    15.0
36.3
These resources and the drawdown of contributions pledged in the past should
be sufficient to finance CDB's SFR operations until 1985 including providing
cash resources to invest to maintain its earnings and build up its reserves.
Initial funding for the proposed "unified" SDF should provide the resources
necessary to continue SFR operations after 1985.
Trust Funds
No forecasts were made for the trust fund operations of CDB as they
are funds which are managed by CDB and the risk is borne by the donor for
which the trust is established. The Venezuela Trust Fund operations and
finances are expected to vary only little from the recent past. In the case
of the Trust Funds which are expected to be established for future Bank and
IDB loans, it was assumed that the resources provided from these loans would
be used to cofinance CDB's OCR operations. The onlending rate for these
resources would be the average cost of these and other OCR's borrowed funds
plus a spread to cover its administrative expenses and provide a return on
CDB's capital.



- 59 -
ANNEX XI
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of the Proposed Credit
IBRD FY and                                                       Disbursement
Quarter Ended                                           By Quarter        Cumulative
(US$ million)
FY 84
March 31                                                             .05
June 30                                                              .10
FY 85
September :30                                                        .20
December 31                                                          .30
March 31                                                             .45
June 30                                                              .60
FY 86
September 30                                                        1.10
December 31                                                         1.60
March 31                                                            2.10
June 30                                                             2.65
FY 87
September 30                                                        3.25
December 31                                                         3.85
March 31                                                            4.45
June 30                                                             5.05
FY 88
September 30                                                        5.45
December 31                                                         5.85
March 31                                                            6.25
June 30                                                             6.55
FY 89
September 30                                                        6.70
December 31                                                         6.80
March 31                                                            6.90
June 30                                                             7.00



- 60 -
ANNEX XII
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
IDA Project Pipeline For 1983-84
Project Cost      IDA Share
Type                Country     US$ million      US$ million        Approval Date
Agri/Rural Development      St. Lucia          1.5               .75            May 83
Feeder Roads                Dominica          2.0                .80            May 83
Coconut Rehab/Input
Supply                   St. Lucia         2.0               .60             June 83
Fish market/Cold
storage                  Dominica          1.5               .45             July 83
Feeder Roads 3              St. Vincent       2.7              1.5              Dec. 83
Irrigation                  Antigua           1.0                .4             Dec. 83
Water Supply                Dominica           1.3              1.0             Dec. 83
Road Reconstruction/
maintenance              Grenada           2.5                .5             Feb. 84
Water Distribution          St. Kitts          1.2               .6              Feb. 84
Industrial Nursery          St. Vincent       3.0                .7             April 84
Water Supply                Grenada            2.0               .8              April 84
Hydro Power                 Dominica          4.0               1.3             April 84
24.7              9.4



- 61 -
ANNEX XIII
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Project File
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
A-1       Annual Reports 1978-82
A-2       Sector Policy Papers
A-3       Statement of Lending and Investment Policy
A-4       Charter
A-5       Guidelines for Procurement, 3rd Revision September 1979
A-6       Guidelines for Choice of Consultants, December 1978
A-7       Loan Conditions
A-8       Special Development Fund Rules
A-9       Financial Rules
A-10      Basic Information,  April 1982
A-ll      Financial Policies, April 1982
A-12      Financial Projections for 1982-86 (Paper BD 51/82 Addl)
A-13      Financial Projections 1982-86, Simulations by Bank Staff
A-14      Terms and Conditions of Funding Sources, November 1982
A-15      Administrative Budget - 1983
A-16      Technical Assistance Fund, Statistical Report as at June 30, 1982
A-17      Technology and Energy Unit, Annual Report 1981
A-18      Working Paper on the Creation of a (Unified) Special Development
Fund, January 1982
A-19      Loan Supervision Manual, May 23, 1980
A-20      Organization and Management Study, Draft Final Report, dated
March 14, 1983 by Peat,Marwick and Partners, Management
Consultants
GENERAL
B-1       ECCA - Economic and Financial Review, December 1981
B-2       Caribbean Group: Current Situation and Prospects, April 27, 1982



I BRD-1061 I Rl
i7                                              T7         777T
7777   TF
Al
n,                    T H   7:CA R [BB E A N 'A R E 37
o                                                   :7 :
rqanizdfibn,of  b er             ea        Ps Mombrs:'(OE,  I  'u
tn                                                                                                       t  nCOribb    wSfat
F
tn    n  fop)o,
7                                          U             77.:                     an                        Too  5'0           190      2c Q                            %7-
g
c
99        AO
7 7                    7  qL AUPR57
7 A   F  Z  A
c)
llllfl D.W.11                      7:
REPUBLAICN
$1 MART
x
GUAllEMALA
'I u
HONDURAS                                                                                                                                                                     A44M   U L
7    7,A-   Ab   7          7 E         n
Vfi i-F
GUA                                                                                                       7                      7
9AD
PA  C  I FIC :  : :                                                                                                                                                                                ,   7
7                                                                       %                                                 :777-
COS 7'
IP,
PANAMA
APIFTA/A$ MIAvN!M  IN            _    itE5
:77
AIT I IWA   45N
<7
t,ELTzF     23 73 fi         I 7 4 2 758 2 7b 2153 00                                                                                                                                                                                Z
mMIC4    118 17!I  SI II                                                                                                                                                                                                             >
k "A'A         74 vu 4                                          ds
IA      3    5 3
J AMA I     1 4 1 1 11 3   a 9  658
Ps, of Ttw      Ad lh,
,-'r SEIRAT  4S C, I4q  6 a  5 1                                          ",W. lcItW
ST. UTTS   5 1 7 3S 294                                                                                                                                                                                  z    I
-/-B R A
ST, LUIA
--- 2-
ST. Vt-CENT, I"



