Document of
The World Bank                                 FILE C- P
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3535-CRG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 6.5 MILLION
TO THE
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
April 28, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
The currency unit is the East Caribbean Dollar.
EC$1.00 = US$0.37
US$1.00 = EC$2.70
LIST OF ACRONYMS
CARICOM   Caribbean Community
CARIFTA   Caribbean Free Trade Association
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
CDF       Caribbean Development Facility
CFC       Caribbean Food Corporation
CG        Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
DFCs      Development Finance Companies
EEC       European Economic Community Special Action Credit
ECCM      East Caribbean Common Market
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
LDCs      Less Developed Countries
MDB       Multilateral Development Bank
MDCs      More Developed Countries
PATU      Project Administration and Training Unit
OCR       Ordinary Capital Resources
OECs      Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
SFR       Special Fund Resources
UK        United Kingdom
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
USAID     US Agency for International Development
VTF       Venezuelan Trust Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
THIRD PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Caribbean Development Bank
Beneficiaries:       Various institutions and enterprises in the seven
countries of the Eastern Caribbean eligible for
subloans--Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat,
St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and
the Grenadines. Antigua would become eligible
after it is admitted to IDA membership.
Amount:              SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million).
Terms:               Standard IDA terms, except that the commitment fee
of j% on undisbursed balance would not be paid by
CDB until subloans are authorized by IDA. CDB's
liabilities in respect of the credit would be
limited to amounts paid to CDB by sub-borrowers in
respect of subloans. CDB would assign to IDA its
rights to subloan contracts made with IDA
resources.
Onlending Terms:    Governments would be the only direct recipients of
IDA funds. They would receive funds on the same
terms as CDB and would bear the credit and foreign
exchange risks. Governments may then utilize the
funds or relend them to sub-borrowers at terms and
rates appropriate to the particular project and in
conformity with CDB's Statement of Policy. IDA
will pay a fee to CDB for its costs in onlending.
Project
Description:         The CDB is a regional development bank which was
established in 1970. It has 17 regional and 5
non-regional country members. Its purpose is to
contribute to the economic development of the
region. The Bank has maintained a close
relationship to CDB since its inception, both
through the provision of technical assistance and
the granting of two previous loans/credits.  The
Bank's objectives have been to help build CDB into
an increasingly effective institution and to use
it as a channel for financing small projects in
the Caribbean which would otherwise be too costly
and difficult for the Bank to appraise and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
supervise. Bank Group funds have been used for
public and private sector projects of the types
which the Bank normally finances. The proposed
credit would be for the same purposes and
objectives as the previous operations, except that
it would be restricted to the smallest and poorest
CDB member countries. CDB has, at the present
time, sufficient hard capital resources available
so that IBRD funds are not required as a part of
the proposed project.
Risks:               The principal risks associated with the project
are related to the economic and physical
environment in which the countries operate. The
small island economies of the eastern Caribbean
have proven to be extremely sensitive to changing
commodity prices and economic conditions in North
America. In several islands, hurricane damage has
also had adverse effects on their fragile
economies. CDB's pipeline of projects over the
next two years is ample and the risk of subloans
being committed and disbursed slower than forecast
is limited.
Estimated Cost
and Financing
Plan:                Credit funds would be used to finance between 40%
and 80% of project costs depending on country
income level. Remaining financing needs would be
met from harder funds available to CDB from other
sources. At least 60% of the credit would be
allocated to the three poorest countries:
Dominica, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and
Grenada.
Estimated
Disbursements:       FY84   FY85      FY86      FY87       FY88       FY89
Annual               .10    .50        2.05       2.40      1.50        .45
Cummulative          .10    .60       2.65       5.05       6.55       7.00
Project CompLetion
Date:                June 30, 1989.
Estimated Economic
Return:              Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 4338-CRG, dated April 28, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT IN
AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $7 MILLION
TO THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit for SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million equivalent) to the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) which would be channeled through a special fund
segregated from other CDB assets and liabilities and used to help finance
subprojects of the types which the Bank itself would finance. The proposed
credit would be on standard IDA terms, except that the commitment fee of 2%
on undisbursed balances would not accrue until subloans are authorized by
IDA. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by CDB's subborrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMIES
Introduction
2.        Based on Bank missions during 1981 and 1982, separate economic
reports on Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St.
Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines have been
circulated to the Executive Directors.l/ A report on the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development has also been circulated to the
Executive Directors.2/
The Regional Integration Movement
3.        The Commonwealth Caribbean consists of eleven independent countries
(Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana,
Jamaica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago),
one United Kingdom (UK) Associated State (St. Kitts/Nevis) and five UK
dependencies (Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Montserrat,
and Turks and Caicos Islands). It embraces a total population of 5.4 million
with a combined total GNP of about US$11.8 billion in 1981. The countries
range in population from 12,000 (Montserrat) to 2.2 million (Jamaica) and in
income per capita from US$631 (St. Vincent) to US$5,270 (Trinidad and
Tobago). Basic indicators for the CARICOM countries are presented in the
table below.
1/  "Economic Memorandum on Antigua and Barbuda" (No. 3821-CRG), April 23, 1982;
"Economic Memorandum on Dominica" (No. 3824-DOM), May 25, 1982; "Economic
Memorandum on Grenada" (No. 3825-GRD), August 4, 1982; "Economic Memorandum on
Montserrat" (No. 3826-MO), April 19, 1982; "Economic Memorandum on St. Kitts-
Nevis" (No. 3827-CRG), March 19, 1982; "Economic Memorandum on St. Lucia"
(No. 3828-SLU), April 21, 1982; and "Economic Memorandum on St. Vincent and
the Grenadines" (No. 4370-CRG), April 1, 1983.
2/ "Caribbean Group: Current Situation and Prospects" (No. 3937-CRG), May 24,
1982.



Basic Indicators for CARICOII Countries
GNP'      Population        GNP'      Annual-       Gross Nat'l                      Annual         Deficit                         Share of Exports (%   1981
Area       Per Capita        (000)        (US$ M1)  Real GDP    Savings/Gross   Opennesshi    Real              Sha_re     Per        A----n--                                  Manufac- Petro-
(Sq.Sti.)   (Atlas 1981.)   1981             1981       Growrh       Naril Product                     Exporr    of GDP    Capira    Tourism  Sugar  Bauxire   Bananas   tures                 leum
Rare (1            (1)                          Grnwrh    (%   C/    ($) dl
_______   ____                                                                           ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rare (%
Antigua  & Barbuda              170        1,560            76            118          7.0             5 .8           1.67          5.9        3 6        740          60         -       --9-
Bahamas                       5,383        3,630           21 4           7 77         4. 7            n.a.           2.12          1.1          3        310          56         -                               
Barbados                        166        3,450           250            885         4.5             14.1            1.32          8.3         6        37 5          53         6       -            -        18-
Belize                        8,86,6       1,110           149            165          2.9            13.9            1.74          6.0        1 3       150             6      27        -            7         7
Dominica                        293          660            84             5 6       -1.4           -12.2             1.31         -5.7        46        260           20         -       -           40         --
Grenada                         134          880           110             9 7         3.6             4.3            1.03          1.0         20(       225           39                             7          7-
Guyana                      83,000           72(0          /98            5 75       -1.1              4.3            1.56         -2.9        19        250             -      29       42            -         --
Jamaica                       4,411        1,180        2,198           2, 594        1I.7             6.9            1.06          1.6          9        190           20        2      53            6        1 0-
Montserrat                        40       1,640            12             1 9        6.6           -12.4             1.36          4.3        3 4       540            7 1       -       -            -        12-
St. Ritts-Nevis                 1OS        1,010            50             5 1         3.6             5.0            1.48         -5.5        1 7       25(1          30       43        -            -         2  
St. Lucia                       241        1,000           119            119         4.2             12.9            1.71          6.3        3 2       450           52                 -           22        12-
St. Vincent & Gren.             152          630           110             69         6.0             18.3            1.84         11.1        1 6         46          .34       -        -           14         2-
Trinidad & Tobago             1,980       5,27(0        1,183          6,256          6.1             36.1              .90        -4.8        (3)      (450)            4        -       -            -         4        72
Other LAGCCountries:
Ila iti                     14,600           300        5,120           1,336         3.1              0.1              .40         4.0         6          22          25        -        7            -        29          -
Suriname                    63,050        3,040            3 53        1,067          4.0             10.2            1.13          2.6         7        34113           -       -       67            1         1         -
Brazil                   3.286.502        2210n       121,016        368,130           5.1            16.2             .21          9.9         5         91
Peru                       496,220         1,120       18,100         20,260          2.1             14.5              .35         5.3          2         84
a!Growth rat-es calculated on semi-log trend basis.                                                                                     -----
6!Ratio of impurts pius exports to GDP.
c/1979-81.
1/ 1981.



- 3 -
4.        The Caribbean countries have embarked on a number of initiatives to
construct a framework of cooperation in an effort to overcome the handicaps
of small size, economic fragmentation, and external economic dependence and
to foster a regional cultural and political identity. An early attempt was
made at integration with the establishment of the West Indies Federation in
1958. This experiment, however, was unable to survive the nationalistic
sentiments which dominated the region when two of the Federation's major
member countries, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, achieved independence in
1962. The idea of regional economic association was revived in the mid-1960s
and culminated in 1968 in the formation of the Caribbean Free Trade
Association (CARIFTA). Within this free trade area, the seven islands of the
eastern Caribbean formed the Eastern Caribbean Common Market (ECCM), now
known as the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). In 1970, the
CDB was established and in October 1972, CARIFTA member countries decided to
strengthen the integration movement further by forming a Caribbean Community
and Common Market (CARICOM).
5.        CARIFTA provided member countries an enlarged free trade market and
hence the opportunity to capture the benefits of competition, specialization
and larger scale production. Under the CARICOM Treaty the region has sought
deepened integration through the establishment of a common external tariff,
a harmonized system of fiscal incentives for industry, and taxation
agreements. The Treaty contains special provisions to facilitate a faster
rate of development for the LDCs including a relatively long grace period to
adopt the common external tariff and the right to retain special incentives
for industries. In addition, the CDB has granted preferential treatment to
the LDCs - including the channelling to them of most of its concessional
resources. The Treaty also provides for cooperation in socio-economic and
technical areas such as health, education, culture, sea and air
transportation, and meteorology, as well as for coordination of the foreign
policies of its independent members. The Common Market regime has suffered
set-backs in recent years as a result of economic difficulties experienced by
nearly all its members and of the depressed state of the international
economy. In this connection, New Rules of Origin were introduced in June
1981, which aim at increasing local value-added in production for regional
trade and achieving foreign exchange savings.
6.        There has been a growing awareness of the need for greater foreign
exchange earnings, and for diversification of local economies through
expanding the role of manufactured exports. However, the high average level
of effective protection found in all the CARICOM countries, and in particular
the MDCs, has serious implications for the future growth and efficiency of
the countries' industrial sector. In particular, the high effective
protection granted at both the national and regional level, has generated an
equally high anti-export bias for exports outside CARICOM, the area to which
a large expansion of nontraditional exports might otherwise be feasible. The
widespread use of tariff exemptions for raw materials and capital goods as a
production incentive favors the use of imported raw materials instead of
domestic resources, and of imported capital goods instead of labor. Also,
the combination of high tariff rates on final products and tariff exemptions
on their inputs encourages the establishment of firms that generate a small
percentage of value added. Thus one of the major--and financially one of the



- 4 -
costliest--incentive systems has economic effects which are contrary to
regionial objectives of promoting the use of domestic raw materials and of
creatiLng employment.  To achieve these objectives, CARICOM governments would
have to makr substantial changes in the structure of their incentives. The
Bank and other Caribbean Group sponsoring institutions are discussing these
changes, as well as the forms of external support required to implement them
over a period of years, with the Commonwealth Caribbean countries.
The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CG)
7.        The CG was established under the chairmanship of the Bank with the
participation of the IMF, the IDB, the CDB and the UNDP in December 1977 to
mobilize external resources in a multilateral setting in which donors and
recipients participated in reviewing required actions and needs.  As a
result, a Caribbean Development Facility (CDF) was organized to supplement
available and external resources needed to carry out priority investments.
Public sector investment programs are presented at the CG's annual meetings
in order to attract the financial support of the international community and
the economic policies of the recipient countries are reviewed in a
multilateral setting. As part of this effort the IMF and the Bank have
provided major support to some of the larger nLore developed countries (MDCs)
by means of standby facilities, program loans and structural adjustment
loans.
8.         Several new undertakings were initiated by the CG in 1981 to
benef:it CG members in general and the OECS countries in particular. A
project identification and development facility (CPDF), sponsored by UNDP,
was established for an experimental three-year period with the Bank's TFC
affiliate acting as executing agency. Its purpose is to identify, promote
and prepare medium-size (US$.5 - 5 million) projects in the agro-industry and
manufacturing sectors. These projects are then presented to external
institutions for possible financing. Sponsors of prospective projects are
assisted by CPDF in obtaining equity and loan financing as well as
identifying appropriate technology, key personnel, tecnnical partners and
export markets. So far the facility has been instrumental in attracting
financial support for six projects totaling US$17 million of which US$5.5
million is being provided by outside sources in direct response to the
facility's intervention, In addition CPDF has devoted significant resources
to providing techn.ical assistance to governments, organizations and
businessmen.
9.        In an attempt to deal more directly with the special problems of
its OECS members, the CG recently established an interagency resident mission
(IARM) which will coordinate its work with the Econcimic Affairs Secretariat
of the OECS located in Antigua.  The !ARM is expected to go out of existence
after three years, with most of its functions then assumed by the Economic
Affairs Secretariat of OECS. It is managed by the Bank and is staffed and
financed by the CDB, IMF, IDB, OAS and UNDP. The mission was established to
monitor economic performance and diagnose economic problems in the Eastern
Caribben, provide timely macro-economic advice, identify and prepare projects
in the public sector and follow-up donor commitments of financial and
technical assistance. As a complement to this effor-t CDB is financing



-5
resident project coordinators for most OECS members, and USAID is financing
the work of a consulting firm which is trying to attract foreign investment
in export industries for these islands.
10.       In 1982 the United States announced its Caribbean Basin Initiative
(CBI) to aid the region. In addition to increased aid flows, the CBI would
remove many of the trade barriers for locally produced items entering the US
from Caribbean countries. Bilateral investment treaties would be negotiated
with these countries to reduce foreign investor risks. At the same time, new
tax incentives would be enacted to encourage US firms to invest more in the
region. So far the US Congress has only approved the increased aid flows.
The LDC Economies
11.       The region as a whole is characterized by small, open economies
highly vulnerable to the vagaries of international prices and demand. This
fragility is particularly evident in the less developed economies of the
OECS. The largest of these countries has a land area of only 293 square
miles; the most populated has less than 120,000 people. These mini-economies
possess limited natural resources, are relatively undiversified, and, with
their tiny domestic markets, must rely on the economies of scale associated
with export sales if they are to sustain economic growth. They suffer from
an acute lack of trained human resources, high dependence on external
assistance, persistent unemployment, and susceptibility to natural disasters
(hurricanes, floods, droughts, volcanic eruptions) which at times cause wide-
spread devastation. While the individual circumstances of these countries
vary widely, they share the common goals of export expansion and diversi-
fication of the economic base as the means toward long-term economic
viability.
12.       Antigua and Barbuda.  As a consequence of its beautiful beaches and
an international airport which provides easy access from Europe and North
America, the Antigua and Barbuda economy is dominated by a well-developed
tourism sector; tourism accounted for 60% of total exports in 1981. At the
same time, the country possesses a high proportion of fertile land, which has
been substantially unutilized since the demise of the sugar industry in the
early 1970s. After a period of declining economic performance during
1973-76, primarily caused by the international recession, the country
experienced rapid growth, averaging 8.2% annually during 1977-79, as a
consequence of the expansion of the tourism sector and the development of an
export manufacturing industry. Growth continued during 1979-82, albeit at a
slower pace (4.2% annually); tourism and manufacturing were adversely
affected by the international recession, but construction activity associated
with expanded public investment in the tourism sector increased. The economy
has experienced chronic deficits on the current account of the public sector,
associated with an expanding wage bill and financed primarily by local
borrowing.   In 1982, the Government instituted a number of tax measures with
the purpose of strengthening public sector finances. The balance of payments
has exhibited large current account deficits (36% of GDP in 1979-81),
financed through external assistance at concessional terms associated with
development projects, and, in recent years, an increasing proportion of
external loans on commercial terms associated with hotel construction.



-6-
13.       Ihe  dcry sevelopment strategy is directed at diversifying the
economy away fr Ieoende-ice on tourism, through continued expansion of the
manufactur'ng                 Che redevelopment of the. moribund agriculture
sector. i or -d1u  L;z.; ney focus is the development of export industry;
in this area ?-he Coveruaent iS receiving technical assistanc_ in the area of
marketing. pron otion o' foreign investment, and development of the export
potential 'o  indo-'stries  roducing for the domestic market.  In agriculture,
critical costrairnts need to be addressed in the area of land tenure, the
supply and timeiy CP_d ve-r  of agricultural inputs and machinery, and a price
control system whLch is the main impediment to increasing the supply of
locally produced zmeat in Antigua,  The lack of adequate water supply is a
major bottleneclk t3 development of all sectors in Antigua; investment in
ground water d'e %e'L 3nent ard. the rehabilitation of the water supply system is
of hig. h prior i t ,iJ
14                    as 7eirw-t  .   e  exploitable natural resources; its soils are
mostly                -ts teirra7n rugged;  The economy is dependent on one
major export cro- 5       o ananas,v-hich has normally accounted for 60% of exports.
GDP growthf shnwed a declin ng trend in the 1970s, paralleled by severe
st utura- disequipL i3r_a in the fiscal and external accounts.  Since 1979,
tne economic s1ruation has been dominated by the damage and disruption caused
by hurricanes Davfi  anda  ilaen  which wiped out productive capacity in two
consiecutive yearis   Scubsequently, a massive relief and reconstruction effort
was undertake-n and do<mest- c expenditure was sustained by substantial inflows
of foreign assl.,tance   Economic recovery began in 1981 based on the
resurgence of bananas, the main income earner, with GDP growing by 8%.
Banania prires to Dcmic ica declined sharply, however, with the weakened
steriing/E<$ exchangr,e: rate. eroding the impact of the output gain on national
Lncome  Recognizinfg the need for improved fiscal and economic management,
the Government a-n 1981 en-tered into an extended arrangement with the IMF.
Under the IMF program, public finances have improved substantially, with the
current account deficit falling from 12% of GDP in 1980/81 to 3% in 1981/82.
15.       The couatrys dcevelopment strategy is directed at restoring and
deveLoping alternative agricultural crops, small scale manufacturing, and
more fully exploiting  Lcs limited tourism potential,  Because of the long
gestation peri Ofifd of many cf the productive projects aimed at agricultural
diversification.  such as  oconuts and tree crops, anid because of the lengthy
start:-ua time ior short gestation non-traditional activities, such as
freshwater prawn ftarn ang, revitalization of the banana industry is critically
importanc in the  nir,tei4-  In industry, potential exists in the area of
forestry products, agroprocessing and assembly-type light manufacturing. In
1981/82 two small garment factories started operations.  Further development
of such operations W-i11 require provision of adequate cargo facilities and
services, and conrFruction of industrial estates.  ]:n tourism, plans are
underway to restore hotel capacity destroyed by hurricanes; over the medium
term, however, tourismr has only limited development potential.
16.       Greneda an-Joys some of the most beautiful beaches in the Caribbean
as well as reasonabrly good agricultural land, despit.e its rugged terrain.
Agriculture (primarily bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg) accounted for about 37% of
export gocds and nonfactor services in 1981; tourisnm for 39%.  After economic
contraction in theea a1v 1970s, reflecting deteriorating agricultural output



- 7 -
and productivity, the economy rebounded, spurred by rapid growth of tourism
and favorable world prices for major export crops. Real GDP expanded by an
annual average of 6.6% between 1975 and 1978. After 1979, however,
tourism receipts declined and a drastic fall in international prices for
major export crops led to serious deterioration in the terms of trade.
Despite the expansion of the construction sector, associated with the
construction of an international airport, growth slowed, averaging about 2.7%
annually during 1979-1981. Public finances have traditionally exhibited
small deficits on current account, financed primarily by local sources, with
capital expenditures financed mainly through concessional external
assistance.
17.       The medium- and long-term development strategy of the Government is
to revive growth in the main sectors of the economy through rehabilitation
and upgrading of existing infrastructure, stepped up public investment and
stimulation of productive investment on the part of the private sector,
improvement in public sector efficiency and the maintenance of sound public
finances. In agriculture, input supplies and extension services have been
expanded. The Government is also attempting to bring about the expansion of
agro-industry through the establishment of processing plants for nectars,
jams and jellies from local fruits, and fish. Foundations are being laid for
a more dynamic tourism sector through an expanded public relations campaign,
attempts to develop the European market, and the completion of the new
airport which will be able to accommodate wide-bodied aircraft and night
flights.
18.       Montserrat.  A dependent territory of the United Kingdom,
Montserrat is the smallest of the OECS countries in area (40 square miles)
and population (11,600). The country is hampered by a mountainous and
boulderized terrain, and difficult external shipping and air connections
because of the low volume involved. The main source of income is a
specialized retiree tourism-cum-construction activity which since the 1960s
has replaced agriculture as the dominant sector. After economic stagnation
during the recession years in the middle 1970s, the country has enjoyed high
levels of economic growth. GDP expanded by an average of 8% during 1979-81,
largely reflecting the construction of a medical college in 1980 and
increasing tourism arrivals. The country has also achieved success in
attracting industry, with 170 new jobs created since mid-1980. Public
finances have been reasonably well managed, and budgetary subsidies from the
UK have not been required since 1981. Public investment is financed almost
entirely by external grants and concessional loans.
19.       The Government's development strategy is private sector oriented
and is based on expansion of the tourism sector and revival of agriculture
production. In this context, the Government is supporting a project to
expand cotton production to 160 acres to produce high quality products
locally for the Caribbean tourist market. Continued expansion of the tourism
sector remains feasible through increasing the number of European visitors
during the April-December period.
20.       St. Kitts-Nevis.  Because of its volcanic origin, St. Kitts-Nevis
is well-suited for agriculture. Sugar traditionally has been the base of its
economy, accounting for 70% of exports; as a consequence, economic perfor-
mance has historically been influenced by the fortunes of the industry. In



- 8 -
the first half of the 1970s, the economy stagnated, reflecting the declining
output of the industry.  Despite a substantial improvement in production
levels and GDP growth after 1975, when efforts to revive the industry brought
it under Gcvernment ownership, a steep decline in world sugar prices led to a
deterioration in the terms of trade, mitigating the effect of production
increases on national income.   An outbreak of smut disease caused production
to fall during l978-80, but this decline was compensated by steady expansion
of manufacturing, tourism, construction and other services; annual real GDP
growth averaged about 5% during that period. In 1981 and 1982, GDP
stagnated, as sugar output declined further and the international recession
affected major export markets.  These developments were paralleled by a
dramatic weakening in public finances, which historically had generated
current surpluses, reflecting the deteriorating financial position of the
sugar industry, a substantial wage award in 1981, and inadequate tariffs for
electricity, water, and telephone services.
21.       The Government's strategy over the short term aims at
rehabilitating the sugar sector, and over the medium to longer term, reducing
the economy's dependence on sugar through developing alternative agriculture,
manufacturing and tourism. The completion of a program for replanting
smut-resistant cane varieties will improve prospects for increasing sugar
output, but further measures are needed to increase productivity: irrigation,
limited mechanization of harvesting, and the replacement of worn-out
equipment.  St. Kitts/Nevis has potential to expand cotton, groundnuts,
livestock and fruits and vegetables production; such expansion will require
the formulation of a land tenure and land use program. In tourism, recent
improvements in air and ship travel facilities will enable continued growth
of the sector. While the quality of economic infrastructure in St. Kitts is
good, in Nevis further economic development will require investment in
transportation, water and electricity.
22.       St. Lucia enjoys a relatively favorable natural resource endowment,
with numerous attractive white sand beaches and good agricultural land. The
most diversified of the OECS countries, its economic development has been
based on export agriculture (bananas, coconuts and vegetables), tourism, and
the rapid growth of manufacturing. The country enjoyed steady economic
expansion during 1964-1979, largely as a consequence of sound economic
policies and a positive investment climate. During this period, public
finances were consistently well managed. During 1979-1982, however, the
international recession, natural disasters, a prolonged leadership struggle
within the Government, and an uncertain atmosphere for the private sector led
to slowed economic growth and a deterioration in the public finances. The
present Government is attempting to correct these problems and return to the
fast economic growth path of previous years.
23.       The Government's development strategy aims at continued growth of
its three major sectors. Agriculture in St. Lucia is quite vulnerable
because of its high dependence on bananas and coconuts--both crops suffering
from periodic natural disasters, low productivity and possible market
constraints. Efforts are being directed toward increased productivity in
these areas and crop diversification. In industry, promotion of overseas
investment is a key priority; upgrading and increasing the supply of
managerial and trained personnel is another major requirement.
Infrastructural bottlenecks, particularly in the areas of electricity supply



- 9 -
and port service, also need to be addressed. In tourism, the main need is
the strengthening of the Tourist Board so it can implement more aggressive
promotional campaigns, particularly in summer tourism.
24.       St. Vincent has a mountainous terrain, with alluvial soils
well-suited for agriculture. One of its greatest assets may lie in the
relatively untapped potential of its dependencies--the Grenadines, a chain of
eleven smaller islands extending southward whose waters have won
international acclaim for sailing. In accordance with its resource
endowment, the economy has traditionally been underpinned by agriculture
(bananas, arrowroot, coconuts and vegetables). After economic stagnation
during the first half of the 1970s, reflecting depressed agricultural output
associated with declining export prices, rising prices and demand for the
country's agricultural exports led to expanded production during 1976-78,
with real GDP rising by an average of over 8% annually. The effects of a
volcanic eruption in 1979 followed by a hurricane in 1980 led to economic
stagnation in those years; recovery in 1981 led to a spurt of about 12% in
GDP. The rate of growth slowed to 2.3% in 1982, however, reflecting the
effect of a drought on agriculture, modest growth in the other main sectors,
and a decline in tourism. Public finances have strengthened in recent years,
with public sector savings moving from a negative to a break-even position.
25.       The Government's development strategy aims at continuing to
diversify its economic base, developing indigenous sources of energy (hydro)
to reduce the impact of petroleum imports in the balance of payments, and
addressing deficiencies in the transportation infrastructure, particularly in
the areas of ports, airports and feeder roads. In agriculture, the most
pressing issue is marketing, especially of arrowroot, where loss of the US
market has caused 95% of the 1982 crop to remain unsold. A serious shortage
of inter-island transport facilities and of adequate cargo space in regular
services to countries other than the UK compounds the marketing problems for
all agricultural commodities other than bananas. In industry, considerable
expansion in enclave industries has taken place in recent years through
promotional efforts and the CDB-financed construction of factory shells.
Further expansion will require the construction of additional capacity. In
tourism, development has been somewhat haphazard; the Tourist Board is
expected to develop a master plan for the industry with technical assistance
from the CDB in the near future.
26.       In general, given  recovery from the international recession,
continued pursuit of sound economic policies, and the absence of natural
disasters, the OECS countries may be capable of achieving economic growth
averaging 3-5% annually over the medium term. Uniformly, they enjoy very low
debt service ratios as a consequence of historically high levels of external
concessional assistance. However, unless they were to achieve major
reductions in their balance of payments deficits on current account, they
could not incur most of their external borrowing on conventional terms and
service such debt. Concessional external assistance must continue over the
medium term, if these countries are to sustain the import levels required to
generate the projected levels of economic growth.



- 10 -
PART II - BANK LENDING TO THE CDB AND THE LESS DEVELOPED
COUNTRIES OF THE EASTERN CARIBBEAN
27.       The BaLnk Group has had two previous operations wi h CDB and one
direct IDA credit to an LDC. The direct credit has been to Dominica for
SDR 4.4 million (US$5 million equivalent) to help finance road maintenance
and rehabilitation. It became effective in October 1982 and after some
initial delays in contracting is proceeding satisfactorily. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
28.       Between 1971 and 1976 the Bank was executing agency for a UNDP
technical assistance project which helped recruit and train CDB's staff.  The
first Bank project for CDB was in 1976 and was composed of a $17 million IBRD
loan (1223-CRG) and a $3 million third window loan (1234-CRG). The second
operation was composed of a $23 million loan (1775-CRG) and two credits, one
of which was an IDA credit (960-CRG) in the amount of $7 million, and the
other a $1 million credit where the Bank Group operated as agent for the
EEC, The main objectives of the operations with CDB have been to help build
it lnto an increasingly effective institution for financing development
projects in the region, with particular emphasis on smaller projects and on
the smaller countries of the region.
29.       Although the IDA/EEC Credit (960-CRG, 37--CRG) was committed by
CDB's Board before the final date of December 31, 1981 for presenting
subprojects, an extension of a year was required to allow for several
countries to become members of IDA. An extension of a year was also needed
for the second Bank loan (1775-CRG) in order to complete CDB's commitment of
the loan and to arrange for country guarantees on subloans.  Commitments for
the second Bank loan were delayed by many of the factors which affected the
first operation. Continuing economic problems in Guyana and Jamaica severely
reduced lending possibilities in these countries. As was the case in the
previous operation, substantial delays were encountered in arranging the
guarantees which were required for all Bank subloans. Several large private
sector projects which were earmarked for funding from the second Bank loan
had to be dropped or changed to a different funding source at advanced stages
of preparation, due to the political difficulties of obtaining the government
guarantees required by IBRD and a reluctance of private borrowers to accept
the foreign exchange risk associated with a basket of currencies to be
determined after signing subloan contracts. The IDA/EEC Credit has been
fully committed for seven projects in six countries. Three were made to
local DFCs in the form of equity contributions from their governments as part
of financial restructuring programs to revitalize these institutions. Other
subloans were made for water supply, feeder roads, power and a deep water
port. The second Bank loan has been committed for ten subloans in seven
countries. The subloans will finance projects in power, water supply,
transport, manufacturing, mortgage finance and DFCs. Expected economic rates
of return ranged from 19-34% while financial rates of return were from
10-21%. About 50% of both loan and credit have been disbursed.



- 11 -
30.       The Caribbean Development Bank is expected to continue to be an
important channel for Bank Group lending to the Commonwealth Caribbean and
the principle channel for lending to the LDCs of the region. Bank Group
policy will be to consider operations with individual LDCs only when the
project being considered is beyond CDB's financial or technical capacity.
CDB would also continue to be a channel for Bank Group lending to the larger
countries for projects that may be too small to be considered for a Bank
loan. Although CDB does not now require IBRD funds, it will probably have a
need for such funds within the next two years and may then request an IBRD
loan. The Bank Group is thus likely to finance both IBRD and IDA future
operations with CDB.
31.       Direct financing operations are now being considered by the Bank
Group in St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada. They include
projects for multi-sector regional development, electric power and
agriculture. Where appropriate, cofinancing will be sought, including
cofinancing with the CDB.
32.       Bank Group operations in the Caribbean have placed strong emphasis
on working closely with regional institutions, international agencies and
bilateral donors. An unusually large effort has gone into aid coordination,
institution building and technical assistance. It is likely that these
characteristics of the Bank program will continue. A discussion of the
Bank's role in the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
and other regional activities is described in paragraphs 7 and 8.
PART III - THE SECTORS
The Agricultural Sector
33.       The agricultural sector in the Caribbean is a major source of
foreign exchange, employment and income. The sector's performance in recent
years has been poor. After 1972 the region became a net importer of
agricultural products, while experiencing a net reduction of about one-third
in agricultural employment between 1960 and 1970. Further reductions have
occurred since then. Nevertheless, the sector still remains the largest
source of employment, absorbing about 25% of the labor force. In spite of
the sharp reduction in employment that has occurred in the last 20 years,
real per capita farm income has also declined during this period. The
underlying problems include neglect of proper land use and tenure policies,
inefficient methods of production, and weakness in government support
services and pricing policies, which have helped to widen the disparity in
earnings between agriculture and other sectors. Several of the LDCs rely
on a single crop such as bananas or sugar which have uncertain futures due
to competition from outside the region. The countries of the region
recognize the seriousness of the problem and are trying to revitalize and
diversify the sector to increase employment, raise incomes in rural areas,
check rural/urban migration and improve their balance of payments.
34.        The Bank Group is assisting larger projects in the MDCs, while
CDB is tackling the problem on both a national and regional basis in the LDCs
and for small projects in the MDCs. In this context CDB assisted in the pro-
motion of the Caribbean Food Corporation (CFC) which began making capital



- 12 -
investments in both the public and private sectors to boost agricultural
production in 1981. CFC has recently established a subsidiary on a joint
venture basis with the private sector to provide marketing and trade services
in the region. CDB has recently responded to a continuing shortage of
finance for the banana industry in the LDCs by establishing a revolving fund
to finance fertilizer and other inputs for the four windward islands most
dependent on this crop. In addition to its direct support for this sector, a
substantial amount of credit to individual farmers and fishermen is provided
through its DFC operations. It is expected that part of the proceeds of the
proposed credit will be for agricultural subprojects.
The Industrial Sector
35.       The ir dustrial sector in the Caribbean consists mainly of light
industry. Only Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica and Guyana have industrial
complexes devoted to the processing of minerals. The MDCs account for 94% of
regional manufacturing but this represents only 12% of the MDC's GDP and
employs only about 14% of the work force. Jamaica possesses the largest
manufacturing sector followed by Trinidad and Tobago.  Manufacturing in
Guyana, except for bauxite processing, is still a minor sector. Industrial
activity in the LDCs is a quite limited, though growing, source of
employment. All the LDCs have established industrial estate programs to
attract foreign investors interested in utilizing local labor for assembly
and sewing opera,tions. The success of these programs will depend in large
part on the investment climate, competitiveness of local wages and
labor productivity. The LDCs have been promoting their programs individually
and collectively with the help of CDB and USAID financed consultants.
36.       ManufaLcturing in most of the region suffers from three sector
constraints - the smallness of domestic markets, the lack or the inadequacy
of raw materials and intermediate products and the insufficient number of
experienced entrepreneurs and skilled workers. CARIFTA and CARICOM were
created to stimulate investment in manufacturing by making rules for trade
liberalization, establishing a common external tariff, and harmonizing fiscal
incentives.  The incentive schemes have not created the stimuli needed,
however, because they were mainly designed to encourage import substitution
at the national and regional levels. As the possibilities for efficient
import substitution at these levels are limited and in some cases exhausted,
these incentives resulted in the establishment of many inefficient industries
which generate little employment but enjoy unduly high effective protection.
The countries and regional institutions have increasingly been realizing that
in the future, efficient industrial development will have to be based largely
on increased exports to the rest of the world. AE; outlined in para. 6, the
CARICOM countries are considering within the framework of the CG a reform of
their industrial incentive policies. They are also giving high priority
within their investment programs to the development of the infrastructure to
support export-oriented productive activities. It is expected that a
substantial proportion of the proposed credit will be onlent for
manufacturing projects in the Caribbean.



- 13 -
The Tourism Sector
37.       Tourism has been an outstanding growth sector in the region and has
provided CARICOM with an important source of foreign exchange and
employment. The total number of tourists has increased from 1.7 million in
1970 to a peak of 2.8 million in 1980. The world recession and appreciating
local currencies tied to the US Dollar have caused a 12% drop in tourist
arrivals since 1980.3/ At present the sector in some countries has
considerable excess capacity, so in these cases investments over the next few
years will probably take the form of upgrading existing facilities and making
them more energy efficient. Future prospects for tourism are considered
favorable when world economic growth resumes. A regional tourism promotion
unit has been established with the support of the CG to help the LDC's
attract more tourists. The main constraints to growth are likely to be the
limited number of scheduled flights to some islands and high prices for
tourist services. Most islands now have adequate air transport
infrastructure. CDB intends to maintain its support of the tourism sector,
by emphasizing the development of small hotel projects on some of the less
developed OECS islands.
The Transportation Sector
38.       The two fundamental problems of the CARICOM States--isolation and
smallness-- can only be relieved by efficient and reliable transport systems,
both sea and air. The LDCs in particular are dependent on efficient sea
transport for developing merchandise trade and on air transport for the
development of tourism and light assembly industries. Total inbound/outbound
shipping cargo for the OECS islands amounted to about 230,000 metric tons in
1978, the most recent year for which data are available. This traffic is
expected to grow at 3% per year in normal periods of economic growth. At
present these islands have sufficient deepwater berthing capacity to handle
such growth for the foreseeable future. Though most islands have acceptable
airport facilities, the LDC's will probably not be able to increase their
share of tourist traffic without more reliable air services. Having played a
major role in financing transport infrastructure in the past, CDB plans to
shift its emphasis to more directly productive sectors. The quality of many
roads in the LDCs has declined markedly due to a lack of maintenance. The
proposed credit is expected to finance road reconstruction and agricultural
feeder roads.
The Public Utilities Sector
39.       The power and water supply sectors are characterized in most
cases by local institutions with weak management and inefficient
administrative and operating practices. In most cases, tariffs are
inadequate and billing and collection deficient, resulting in inadequate
revenues and calling for increased government subsidies. In those cases
where there is a lack of infrastructure in these sectors, growth of the
3/   Caribbean Tourism Research and Development Council - Statistical Review
1982 (1982 figures based on 7 months actual).



- 14 -
tourism sector might be constrained.  In the power sector, energy is
reLatively high in cost due to the heavy dependence on imported oil, large
fixed investments that must be borne by small service areas that cannot be
interconnected and frequent breakdowns caused by poor maintenance. There is
a need for investment in developing geotherma'l and hydro-gL  erating energy
and better maintenance services. Efforts to reduce system losses and energy
consumption by large users can yield significant benefits to these small
economies. Of the total water supplied, a small quantity is through house
connections and few of these are metered. Most systems in the LDCs depend on
surface sources and treatment is unreliable. Service is usually inadequate
and low pressures and rationing are common during the dry season.  Public
sewer systems are very limited and the majority ot. the population relies on
soakage pits, septic tanks and pit privies. CDB has agreed to participate
in the Bank Group's water sector survey of the Caribbean region scheduled for
1983-84. This survey is expected to refine the sector strategy and identify
additional projects for financing. CDB is already involved in the power and
water sectors and part of the proposed credit could be used for them.
The Financial Sector
40.,       There is a diversity of financial intermediaries throughout the
region, both commercial banks and official development institutions.
Independent central banks have been created in the MDCs during the past 15
years and the Eastern Caribbean Currency Authority (ECCA), which was
established in 1965 to cover the needs of the LDCs, is scheduled to become a
central bank for these islands in April 1983. Wilth the exception of Jamaica,
almost all the commercial banks are branches of leading UK, Canadian and US
banks, though in most of the LDCs a government-owmned commercial bank has
recently been created. As of December 31, 1981, the commercial banking
system in the OECS countries had total deposits amounting to US$352 million,
or about 70% of 1981 regional GNP. This figure indicates the high
availability of financial resources for short-term, commercial operations in
the LDCs. This has been achieved despite the fact that interest rates paid
on savings averaged only 3% and fixed-term deposits 4-6% during 1979-82. The
prime lending rate remained stable at 9% during this period when local
ini.lation averaged 20% in 1979, 18% in 1980 and slightly below 10% in
1931-82.  Rates are generally fixed by the commer-ial banks, though sometimes
inifluenced by government policy. Although commercial banks have been able to
mobilize a moderate volume of financial resources, they have channeled
relatively little to productive sectors. Most of their loans are for
consumer durables.
41.        Up to now, most CDB loans for the industrial sector have been
channeled through government-owned DFCs.  These wiere established in the early
1970s, in most cases with CDB support. The small DFCs in the LDCs have
experienced serious difficulties in attracting qualified staff and in many
cases have relied on the CDB for technical assistance. Undercapitalization
andi low interest spreads have resulted in little or no income and have made
them dependent on the government to cover part of their operating costs.
Their exposure to political influence has made lo;an collection difficult.
The resulting loan losses and arrears call into question, in some cases, the
financial viability of these institutions. The problems of these DFCs have
been extensively studied. CDB, with USAID technical assistance funds and



- 15 -
additional equity capital, financed by the previous IDA credit, is
restructuring several DFCs. CDB has assumed an increasingly firm position
with those DFCs who have followed unsound financial and economic policies.
In one recent situation, it has informally suspended disbursements and in
other cases it has postponed consideration of new loans. 1 2 Bank has made
it clear that it would not approve subloans to DFCs following unsound
policies. Bank and CDB staff have worked closely in trying to improve the
implementation of loans to DFCs and carefully evaluating future loan
requests. CDB and the Bank have also considered the possibility of using a
commercial bank channel for onlending to industry and agriculture in those
countries having an intractable problem with their DFCs. A portion of the
proposed credit may be used for this purpose.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of the Third Caribbean
Development Bank Project" (No. 4338-CRG dated April 28, 1983) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III contains a
timetable of key events in processing the project and a description of the
special conditions of the proposed credit. Negotiations took place in
Washington, D.C. from April 4 to 6. The CDB delegation was led by
Mr. Marius St. Rose, CDB's Director of Economics and Programming.
CDB's Capital Structure, its Objectives and Policies
43,       The CDB was established in 1970 by 16 regional members, Canada and
the UK as nonregional members, with additional financial assistance from the
US, a nonmember. Venezuela joined the CDB in 1973, Colombia in 1974 and
Mexico and Anguilla joined in 1982. CDB has been designated an Associated
Institution of CARICOM with which it shares the task of supporting the
regional economic integration movement with special emphasis on the needs of
the LDCs. In fulfilling this objective, the CDB is required to assist its
regional members in the coordination of their development programs, in the
provision of appropriate technical assistance and in the financing of
projects and programs. The CDB is also required by its Charter to be guided
by sound development banking principles and to finance only economically
sound, technically feasible and properly appraised projects. The Charter
also contains a number of operating limitations designed to safeguard the
CDB's financial soundness. These limitations are complemented by the CDB's
"Statement of Policy" and individual sector policy papers which constitute a
reasonable and prudent basis for conducting its operations.
44.       CDB's Charter provides that each member shall subscribe to shares
of its capital stock and that the regional members 4/ must hold not less
than 60% of its shares. The authorized capital of the CDB as of December 31,
1982 was US$281.6 million, of which US$250.2 million had been subscribed. Of
the subscribed amount, US$57.2 million was paid up and the balance is subject
to call when required by CDB to meet its obligations. In April 1979, the
most recent increase in the authorized and subscribed capital stock of
US$50.0 million was approved by its members of which US$20.0 million is to be
paid up in the five years 1980-84.
4/ The "regional members" include all member countries except Canada and the
United Kingdom.



- 16 -
CDB's Management and Organization
45.       Each member country appoints, for an indefinite period, a governor
and an alternate to serve on the Board of Governors, the highest policymaking
body of CDB. 5/ The Board is composed of 18 governors who meet at least
once a year and voting power is roughly proportional to shares subscribed.
The Board of Governors delegates certain functions to the Board of Directors
which is comprised of 12 members, appointed for a renewable two-year period
of whom ten represent the regional members of CDB and two represent the
nonregional members. The Board of Directors meets at least every two months
and is responsible for general policy and directing the operations of the
Bank, including loan and investment approvals. The President of the CDB
conducts the day-to-day business of the Bank under the guidance of the Board
of Directors of which he is the Chairman. The President serves a five-year
term and may be reelected. Sir Arthur Lewis was CDB's first President from
1970 to 1974. The current President, Mr. William Demas, completed his first
tern in September 1979 and was reelected for a second five-year term. CDB
has a staff of 233, of whom 108 are professionals. Twenty-three of the
professionals are provided by foreign aid agencies, under technical
assistance programs. The CDB has established itse:Lf as an important and
one of the best managed institutions in the Caribbean.
46.       Management within the CDB relies heavily on a system of
committees. The most important of these is the management committee composed
of the president and his department directors. It meets on a regular basis
to dliscuss issues requiring management decisions. There are also standing
committees takingr decisions on investment management, loan approvals and loan
supervision.  Because of the difficulties CDB has encountered recently in
increasing its level of lending, its management has come under some criticism
from its borrowing and donor members. In the fall of 1982, CDB initiated an
independent management study to develop proposals to strengthen its
organization, systems and procedures in order better to achieve its
objectives. Final recommendations of the consultant are expected shortly,
and CDB's Board will review them by July 1983. CDB will keep the Bank
informed of its progressing in implementing the changes involved.
47.       The quality of CDB's project analysis has improved steadily over
the years, with increasing attention paid to the institutional aspects of
projects. CDB has also strengthened its technical assistance activities and,
in addition to financing pre-investment studies, CDB is using its technical
assistance funds to finance key staff to help implement difficult or
complicated projects. It has also introduced training programs for Key civil
5/ Except for Montserrat, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Turks and
Caicos Islands and Anguilla, which jointly elect one governor.



- 17 -
servants of borrowers in project evaluation and implementation and has
recently instituted project identification missions to improve the quality
and depth of its project pipeline. Implementation of the management
consultant's recommendations is expected to increase the decentralization of
decision making in CDB and increase staff initiative and responsiveness to
member country needs. Project supervision should also be improved by the
consultant's recommendation to make the project team responsible for
appraisal also responsible for supervision during the implementation stage.
With a modest amount of Bank technical cooperation in a few areas where Bank
staff has special expertise, CDB is now well staffed to handle most projects
in the principal sectors for which it lends.  Procurement and disbursement
procedures are acceptable. CDB's accounting systems and procedures are
currently being computerized. CDB engages independent auditors and since its
inception, none of its reports has had any qualification.
CDB's Past Operations
48.       From its inception in 1970 to 1982, CDB has approved 334 loans for
261 projects in 15 countries amounting to US$411 million. Of this amount,
US$291 million has already been disbursed. CDB's operations are divided into
three types: (i) ordinary operations; (ii) special operations, and (iii)
trust fund operations. Ordinary operations are financed from Ordinary
Capital Resources (OCR) which consist of share capital, retained earnings and
borrowed funds. Special operations are loans made through special funds and
at concessionary rates (usually 4% per annum) for high priority projects
mainly in the LDCs. These funds are financed with resources from countries
and agencies at no risk to CDB. Trust fund operations are those operations
funded from trust funds set up at CDB by various donors. CDB lends these
funds to the region for a fee and bears no risk. CDB is now administering
only one such fund, the Venezuela Trust Fund (VTF), with total resources of
US$25.0 million. As of December 31, 1982, lending by sources was as follows:
OCR (30%), SFR (66%), and VTF (4%). Industry and infrastructure projects
have dominated CDB's lending. Of the total CDB operations, 38% were for
infrastructure projects, 20% for development finance companies, 20% for
manufacturing, 9% for agriculture and 13% for other sectors. Loans to LDCs
represent 56% of the total amount lent, 82% of which was made with soft
resources.
CDB's Projected Operations
49.       During the next five years 1983-87 CDB is expected to lend about
*          US$290 million compared with US$282 million in the preceding five years.  The
latter amount includes US$66 million in USAID financed program loans which
are not anticipated in the future. Annual lending in the next five years is
forecast to increase by 9% a year. It is expected that this can be achieved
without a significant increase in CDB's staff. CDB has identified 12
possible subprojects with external financing requirements of about US$9.0
million that could be financed out of the proposed credit. These projects
are in the agricultural, power, water, transport and industrial sectors.



- 18 -
CDB's Financing Plan
50.        In order to finance its lending program through 1987, CDB is
expected to borrow some $70 million of hard resources and $68 million of soft
resources in addition to the uncommitted funds available at the end of 1982.
It ls expected that about half of the hard resources will be made available
by the Bank and IDB, and the balance will be obtained from market
borrowings. In addition to the US$7 million IDA credit some US$29.3 million
of other soft resources have been pledged by donors and the balance will be
made available from the first replenishment cycle of the proposed "unified"
General Special Development Fund beginning in 1984..
CDB's Interest Rate Policy
51.        In 1979 CDB had four OCR lending rates averaging 9.5% p.a.  In
October 1981, a unified lending rate of 10J% p.a. was introduced and
thereafter the lending rate was to have been revised semi-annually to reflect
CDBts cost of borrowed funds plus a share (initially one-half) of its
administrative expenses. The rate was not changed until December, 1982
howeIver, when it was increased to 12% p.a. effective January 1, 1983. The
current policy is to adjust CDB's lending rate for OCR operations to its cost
of borrowed funds plus 60% of administrative expenses in 1983, increasing to
100% of such expenses in 1987.  Rates are therefore positive in real terms
and comparable to rates of other international finaLncial lending institutions
operating in the area. The interest rate on CDB's soft loans is usually 4%
p.a. However, the proposed credit will be onlent by CDB on IDA terms.
CDB's Financial Condition
52.       CDB's OCR earnings amounted to US$3.9 million equivalent in 1982 or
5,4% of its equity. Its relatively low profitability was mainly due to its
past policy of low lending rates which is still affecting the average spread
on its loan portfolio. CDB's net income on its SFR was US$7.7 million
equivalent in 1982 and at the end of 1982 it had accumulated to US$26.2
million of reserves against outstanding loans of US$164.8 million.
53.        Projections of CDB's financial results for OCR show that it will be
able to maintain an acceptable financial position. Its interest rate spread
is expected to increase from 0.5% in 1983 to 1.6% in 1987 and its return on
equity is expected to increase from 4.4% to 5.5% in the same period. Its
debt service coverage will remain above 1.5 times through the projection
period and is liLkely to improve thereafter. SFR operations, which CDB
carries out with no credit risk, are forecast to generate satisfactory
profits in each year of the 1983 to 1987 period.
Objectives
54.        The objectives of the proposed project are to:



- 19 -
(a) Channel additional IDA funds to high quality development
projects in eligible Caribbean countries, at lower cost than
IDA can do directly. The sector and evaluation criteria would
be similar to those presently accepted for Bank operations.
(b) Strengthen CDB to become a more effective regional development
institution;
(c) Where appropriate, build up CDB's capacity in specific sectors
by providing Bank staff assistance at various stages in the
project cycle.
55.       The normal channel of Bank Group lending to the OECS members is
through CDB. Direct lending to Bank Group members of the OECS would be
considered in situations where a project is either too large to be financed
by CDB or is in a sector where CDB lacks sufficient experience. The IDA
credit through CDB would finance smaller projects in each of the eligible
LDCs on a more regular basis. The proposed credit would be made available to
CDB to finance public and private sector projects in eligible countries, but
not to cofinance projects receiving Bank Group funds. (Draft Development
Credit Agreement Section 2.11.) IDA funds would be used to finance projects
in agriculture, agroindustry, manufacturing, tourism, transportation, public
utilities, urban, housing, technical and vocational education and training,
health, and any other sector approved by IDA. Borrowed funds for subprojects
would be utilized by governments or passed on as loans or equity. (Draft
Development Credit Agreement Section 3.01(a).)
IDA Eligibility and Allocation
56.       The OECS comprises five independent countries (Antigua and Barbuda,
Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent), a UK Associated State (St.
Kitts-Nevis) and a UK dependency (Montserrat). Eligibility for borrowing
credit funds will be set forth in the Schedule to the Credit Agreement which
may be changed by IDA at any time. All independent countries are members of
IDA, except Antigua. Antigua has applied for membership in the Bank. It
will be added to the list of eligible countries authorized to borrow under
the credit when it is admitted to IDA membership. St. Kitts-Nevis and
Montserrat will be eligible to borrow as an associated state and dependency
of the UK, respectively. Given their very small size, structural weaknesses,
high degree of interdependence and serious financial difficulties, the OECS
countries were grouped together for IDA eligibility purposes.
57.       The present conditions arguing for IDA eligibility are similar to
those that existed in 1979. Based on the 1981 Atlas figures, only Dominica
and St. Vincent have per capita income figures below $795 and the weighted
average annual per capita income for all the countries comes to $943. There
is persuasive evidence, however, that the exchange rate in these countries is
not a faithful reflection of differences in purchasing power. Calculating
exchange rates based on price movements since 1976 and 1978, the weighted
average annual per capita income of all countries would be $907 and $846
respectively. If Antigua and Montserrat with per capita incomes above $1,500
are excluded, the per capita figures for the rest would be $800 in 1976 and
$735 in 1978. Nevertheless, although the nominal income levels of Antigua
and Montserrat are high even with the exchange rate adjustments, these small



- 20 -
open economies should also receive concessionary lending because of the
extreme fragility of their economies and the extraordinarily high per capita
infrastructure costs associated with their small size. Credit funds would
be used to finance between 40% and 80% of project costs depending on country
income levels. Their remaining financing needs would be met from harder
funds available to CDB from other sources.  This blending of funds recognizes
the special economic problems of these mini countries.  During negotiations,
agreement was reaLched with CDB on the percentage of project costs to be
financed in individual countries as well as the requirement that at least 60%
of the IDA credit would be allocated to the three poorest countries:
Dominica, St. Vincent and Grenada. (Draft Developmkent Credit Agreement
Sections 2.03(a)(v)) Other countries declared eligible in the future would be
subject to disbursements at a percentage to be determined by IDA. (Draft
Development Credit Agreement Section 2.03(a)(ii).)
Credit Features
58.       Administration Fee.  Because of its lower manpower unit costs,
proximity to its borrowers, the availability of ample technical assistance
financed from donors, and because the projects it finances are normally less
complex and therefore more rapidly processed, CDB's cost per lending
operation is considerably lower than IDA's. IDA would reimburse CDB for its
estimated cost of onlending the IDA funds. These have been estimated to be
$547,000 and payment will be made in five annual installments (Draft
Development Credit Agreement Section 2.12). This amount and the method of
payment are similar to that agreed to in the previous IDA credit to the CDB,
except that under the proposed credit larger payments would be made in the
early years of the credit, reflecting the more rapid anticipated commitment
of funds.
59.       Commitment Fee.  As part of IDA's present lending terms, a 1/2%
comm-itment fee is charged. During the period before subloans are signed with
countries, CDB will have no right to charge commitment fees to subborrowing
countries nor will it be able to pay the IDA commitment fee with Special Fund
reserves. It will only be able to pass on this fee to the eligible countries
when they sign subloan agreements. Under the two previous operations IBRD
agreed not to charge the commitment fee on the portion of Bank loans until a
subproject was authorized.  This concession was granted to allow for the time
needed to appraise and process subprojects and, because of the failure of
countries to act, for lengthy additional delays in making a subloan required
by IBRD's need for individual country guarantees. Although IDA legal
requirements are fewer, the other causes of delay still exist. IDA would
adopt the same policy on commitment fees as previously accepted by IBRD.
Borrowing countries would not be charged until disbursement on the subloan is
authorized by IDA. (Draft Development Credit Agreement Section 2.06(a))



- 21 -
60.       Assignment of Rights.  The credit would be made to CDB and would be
part of its SFR operations. As such CDB would not bear the credit risk.
Funds from the credit would be channelled through the special fund which CDB
would create for this purpose. Pursuant to its charter, the Special Fund
resources would be completely segregated from CDB's other assets and
liabilities. Agreement was reached during negotiations that as under the
previous IDA credit CDB will assign to IDA its rights to subloans made from
IDA resources. (Draft Development Credit Agreement Sections 2.03(b)(iii)
and 3.03) Consequently, this approach would be equivalent to a direct IDA
credit to the country receiving it. The governments would use or pass on the
proceeds on terms appropriate to each subproject and would thus retain the
full financial benefit of the IDA credit terms. Prior approval by IDA would
be required for each subloan. (Draft Development Credit Agreement Section
2.03(b)(ii)) Recycling of IDA funds would be the responsibility of the
governments. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by CDB's subborrowers
in accordance with the CDB's Charter, and consequently subloans would be
expressed in SDRs.
Disbursements
61.       IDA funds would reimburse up to the percentages of project cost
discussed in para 57. Both fixed assets and permanent working capital would
be eligible for financing. All disbursements would be made against full
documentation, except for smaller disbursements (presently less than
US$10,000) under DFC subloans for which disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditure with documentation retained by the local DFC. In
the latter case CDB would be responsible for periodic inspection and audits
of this documentation and would report to IDA on its adequacy. This system
is being used in the first IDA operation. IDA would reimburse CDB for
expenditures for eligible subprojects incurred after the date of the proposed
credit agreement and no more than 180 days prior to the date on which IDA
receives a request for approval of a subloan. The proposed credit would have
a commitment period of two years from the time of loan signing. This means
the latest date for subloan submission would be June 30, 1985 and the closing
date for disbursement would be June 30, 1989.
Procurement
62.       As in the previous operation, public sector procurement of civil
works estimated to cost more than US$2 million, would be in accordance with
Bank guidelines with notification and international advertising as required
in para 1.2 of the "Guidelines for Procurement Under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits." Civil works procurement for the public sector costing less than
US$2 million but more than US$500,000 have the same procedures but would
require only local advertising and notification of local representatives of
Bank member countries. Public sector procurement of equipment costing more
than US$200,000 would be in accordance with Bank guidelines with regional as
well as local advertising and notification to representatives as
aforementioned. Public sector procurement costing less than US$500,000 for
civil works and US$200,000 for equipment and all procurement by private
borrowers and subborrowers of local DFCs would be in accordance with CDB's
guidelines. Where contracts are financed jointly with Bank and CDB
resources, CDB would consider the advisability of using the above procurement
procedures for the entire contract, if the likely result is a more reasonable



- 22 -
price or other factors favorable to the outcome of the Project. The details
of CDB's procurement procedures have been reviewed by the Bank and found to
be satisfactory. CDB's disbursement procedures are sound and are diligently
applied. It has laid down clear procedures which require the borrower to
present evidence that approved investments have been made.
Benefits and Risks
63.       Through its continuing association with CDB, the Bank will be
supporting and strengthening both financially and institutionally the
Caribbean's primary development banking institution. By using CDB as an
intermediary, a greater number of smaller loans will be made in the Caribbean
region and at lower cost than IDA would be able to make directly. The IDA
credit would allow the smallest and poorest of the region's islands to
receive financing for priority projects on terms substantially more
concessionary than other sources provided by CDB. The risks associated with
achieving these benefits are primarily related to the economic and physical
environment of the region.  The small island economies of the eastern
Caribbean have proven to be extremely sensitive to changing commodity prices
and economic conditions in North America. In several islands, hurricane
damage has also had adverse effects on their fragile economies. CDB's
pipeline of projects over the next two years is ample and the risk of
subloans being committed and disbursed more slowly than forecast is limited.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit and Assignment Agreements between the
CDB and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Annex II, Section 3.
65.       I am saLtisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Part VI - RECOMMENDATION
66,       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 28, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                            Page l of 29
ANTIGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ANTIGUA                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) _
TOTAL               0.4                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        0.1               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   440.0        740.0    1270.0                1902.0                     2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      323.4       1942.7    1354.0                 1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    54.5           65.8      75.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 39.7          33.7       30.8                  65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        123.9       149.5      168.6                  35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    545.0         598.2      674.5                  92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             ..          ..         ..                  39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                             ..          ..         ..                  56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      ..          ..         ..                   4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.7         1.9        1.3                   2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                0.3         0.2        0.5                   3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       31.0        26.2       16.5                  31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.0          ..        5.6                   8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          ..         ..                   2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            85.3       100.0      104.0                 110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    92.7         94.0       86.1/c               108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            60.7        60.4       58. 3/c               66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        34.5         37.8       34.57;7               34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..        ..                   5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.4            ..         ..                  64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             68.7        20.6/d    31.5                   64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                7.4        21.0         ..                  65.6
URBAN                                 ..        33.2         ..                  78.9
RURAL                                 ..        14.0         ..                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  59.3
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  75.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            3406.3      2860.9    2746.2/f               1617.3                     1105.4
*                             POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        535.8/e      456.9     266.47?               1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               99.6/e     153.0      136.5/f               477.4                      286.8
URBAN                              121.2/i     100.7      102.47?               679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             .          11.0       9.4/f                27.3                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.1         4.3
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAI.                              25.1          ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                     Page 2 of 29
ANTIGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ANTIGUA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -      _
MOST RECENT             MIEDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOM-E
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL               155.0           ..      80.0/c               104.3                     102.4
MALE                   ..           ..        ..                 106.4                    107.1
FEMALE                 ..           ..        ..                 103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 71.0           ..      70.0/c                41.3                      60.2
MALE                   ..           ..        ..                  40.4                     66.4
FEMALE                 ..           ..        ..                  41.8                     54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 35.5           1.3       1.5/g                33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.1         23.4      21.6/g                29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                            ..        31.2      21.8                  16,7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        88.7          ..         ..                 79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..        ..                  42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        51.4        152.0     229.1                 270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..       101.8     215.6                  107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0       263.6      80.9                  63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        ..                   2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAiDS)          ..        23.0      25.2/f
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     ..        38.1        ..                  24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                ..        10.6      11.4/f,h              31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   ..        21.5      15.1/f,h              23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  ..        35.6      34.8/f                33.6                      44.5
HALE                                   *-        46.7      44.87?                50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                                 ..        25.7      25.77?                16.3                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                ..          ..         ..                  1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
'IGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEI (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                 184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                 518.C
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                 371.1                    406.6
ESTIMATED POPLIATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1972; /e 1962; /f 1976; Ig 1975; /h Employed labor force.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
- 25_                                                 Page 3 of 29
DOMINICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DOMINICA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/
TOTAL                0.8                                   MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL         0.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EL'ROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    290.0         410.0      620.0                 1902.0                     2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        100.6        203.4      227.0                 1259.9                      2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    59.0             71.0       83.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..               ..       27.0                   65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHEO
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          78.6         94.5      109.2                    35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    327.8           373.7      431.6                   92.5                       155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCIURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              ..         49.1         ..                    39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                              ..         45.0          ..                  56.1                        61.2
E5 YRS. AND ABOVE                       ..          5.9          ..                   4.2                         7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.6          1.9/c      1.6/c                  2.4                         1.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                     3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        43.5         36.4       21.4                    31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        13.7           9.2        5.3                    8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.2          ..                    2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)               ..            ..        ..                  110.0                       116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      88.5         90.1       84.8/d                108.4                       125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             54.6         55.8       51.5/a                 66.0                        92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          27.9         31.0       27.7/                 34.0                        35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        19.0            ..         ..                    5.6                         9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.0               ..         ..                   64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             107.4         58.3        19.6                   64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   65.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                    78.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   59.3
URBAN                                  ..            .,        ..                    75.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7375.0       6454.5    4560.0/d                1617.3                      1105.4
*                           POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..       1894.7    1360.7                  1063.5                       634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               215.3        233.6      230.7/d                477.4                       286.8
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                  679.8                       192.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                 1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..         ..                   27.3                       20.0
MOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.2            ..
URBAN                                  ..            ..
RURAL                                  ..            ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.8            ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..



- 26 -                                              ANNEX I
PaRe [4 of 29
DOMINICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DOMINICA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 121.0        123.0         ..                 104.3                     102.9
MALE                 117.0        124.0         .                  106.4                      107.1
FEMALE               125.0        i22.0         ,.                 103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  14.0         13.0        ..                   41.3                       60.2
MALE                  14.0         14.0         ..                  40.4                       66.4
FEMALE                14.0         12.0         *-                  41.8                       54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   6.5            3.0        5.7                  33.7                       31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             35.3         34.8      27.0                   29.9                       25.8
SECONDARY                           18.5         29.2      21.6                   16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         94.1         .-                  79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                   42,8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          45.0         78.9     414.6                  270,5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                  107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..         ..                  63.7                      112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            4.3         ..                   2.7                        4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         20.0         21.2       25.2/f
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      ..         37.6      35.5/T                 24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 ..         39.6/e    38.0/e,f               31.3                       38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    **         18.9/e    10.9/e,f               23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.3         30.4       32.2/f                33.6                       44.5
MALE                                    ..           ..         ..                  50.4                       56.3
FEMALE                                  ..           ..         ..                  16.8                       32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..          1.8         ..                   1.3                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUJSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUJSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUJSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ,,         ,,                 184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                 ...                     .518.1)
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 371.1                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to migration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977;
Th Employed labor force; /f 1976.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                           Page 5 of 29
GRENAIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GRENADA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ.   )                                                             MU- OST RECENT ESTIMATE)/
TOTAL             0.3                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      0.2              1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US4)                200.0       370.0    690.0                   1902.0                   2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS of COAL EQUIVALENT)    115.9       220.4    175.1                   1259.9                   2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   89.0        94.0    109.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.8         ..      63.0                    65.7                     47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      0.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                     261.8       276.5    320.3                     35.2                     83.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    523.5      552.9    680.6                     92.5                    155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           ..         ..      39.5                    39.7                     31.1
15-64 YRS.                          ..          ..      54.2                    56.1                     61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    ..         ..       6.3                     4.2                      7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.6        0.5/c     1.6/c                   2.4                      1.6
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                     3.8                      3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.3        29.0      25.1                    31.4                     23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    10.9         7.9       6.6                     8.4                      9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         2.3       1.8                     2.1                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           ..       105.0      90.0/d                 110.0                    116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  80.0        95.4      80.6/d                 108.4                    125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         49.8        60.9      60.1/a                  66.0                     92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      25.3        32.3      35.0/a                  34.0                     35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     6.0          5.0       4.0                    5.6                      9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   62.8        67.0      69.0                    64.2                     67.6
INPANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          77.9        34.0      15.4                    64.2                     65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        60.0      83.Oe                  65.6
URBAN                               ..      100.0    10o.0/;                   78.9
RURAL                               *-       47.0      77.0/e                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                    59.3
URBAN                              ..          ..      36.0/e                  75.3
RURAL                                        95.0     100.0/e;                 30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         4450.0      2909.1   4686.0/d                 1617.3                   1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     659.4/f    813.6    857.0/j                  1063.5                    634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            158.9      138.7    149.0/d                  477.4                    286.8
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..                   679.8                    192.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                    27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.5          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             1.7          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                  Page 6 of 29
GRENADA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GRENADA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARY:     TOTAL                 159.0       148.0      108.0                     104.3                     102.4
MA.E                 159.0        149.0     114.0                     106.4                     107.1
FEMALE               159.0        147.0     102.0                     103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  17.0        28.0       45.0                     41.3                       60.2
MALE                  15.0         30.0      41.0                      40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                19.0         26.0      49.0                      41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    ..           24.1        ..                      33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.6        37.9       29.0                     29.9                       25.8
SECONDARY                           23.8        25.3       23.0                      16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         97.8         ..                     79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          14.6        39.4         ..                      42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          29.7       159.6      303.0                     270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                     107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   33.7        27.7         ..                      63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.3/h            -       9.5/e                     2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         27.0        29.0       36.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.9         39.2       42.0                     24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               40.0        33.4       23.5                      31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 21.0           ..       24.1                     23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.8         31.2      30.0                      33.6                      44.5
MALE                                  40.3         41.2        ..                      50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                                22.7        23.1         ..                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8          1.7       1.5                       1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE 'OVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                     371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
armong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise roted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to enigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1977; /c 1975;
/f 1962; /g 1974; /h 1963.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
-29 -                                     Page 7 of 29
IONTSERIAT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MONTSERRAT                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHD AVRiAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - HDST RECENT ESTINAKT22
rOTAL              0.102                                 MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOKE            HIDDL2 INCOKE
AGRICULTURAL        0.020            1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      ..          ..         ..                     1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      115.0        782.0    1078.0                      1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      0.010        0.011     0.011
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..            ..         ..                       65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         98.0       112.0     105.0                        35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      495.0       571.0     532.0                        92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            *-         39.8         ..                       39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                            *-         49.4        *-                        56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     ..         10.8         ..                        4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                ..          0.6/c     0.0                         2.4                       1.6
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                        3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..        26.4      17.7                        31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..        10.5      13.6                         8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..           ..         ..                        2.1                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
UJSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             ..           ..         ..                      110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      ..           ..        ..                       108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             ..           ..         ..                       66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..           ..         ..                       34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..          ..         ..                        5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        ..          ..         ..                       64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           114.2           ..      48.5                        64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                       65.6
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                       78.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                       43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                       59.3
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                       75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                       30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..      1430.0    1588.0/e                    1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       370.0     212.O7;T                   1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..       130.0     233.0/e                     477.4                     286.8
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                      679.8                     192.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                     1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        18.1         ..                       27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         3.5
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



ANNEX I
- 30 -                                       Page 8 of 29
MONTSERRAT- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MONTSERRAT                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV9RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    ..          ..         ..                       104.3                     102.4
MALE                    ..           ..         ..                      106.4                     107.1
FEAkLE                  ..           ..         ..                      103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    ..          ..         ..                        41.3                      60.2
MALE                    ..           ..         ..                       40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                  ..           ..         ..                       41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    ..             ..        ..                        33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..          ..       24.9/e                      29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                             ..          ..       13.87/e                     16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATS, (PERCENT)          ..           ..        ..                        79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                        42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                       270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER TFOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                        107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   92.0          ..       88.0                        63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                         2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           ..         4.0        4.2/f
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      ..        34.9         ..                       24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 ..        20.0/d    25.O/d,f                     31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    ..        46.O72    28.0/d,f                    23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   ..         34.8      33.0                        33.6                      44.5
MALE                                    ..           ..      51.5                        50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                                  ..           ..      12.6                        16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..          1.5        ..                         1.3                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENr OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPI'CA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RLRAL                                 ..          ..         ..                       184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE lPOVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                       518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                       371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL. (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
I'a  The group average s for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unlesa otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and fox Moat Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d Employed labor force.
/e 1976; /f 1977.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 29
ST. KITTS-NEVIS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ST. KITTS-NEVIS                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AvEaAGES
AJLEA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIrT)-
TOTAL            0.4                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       0.1              1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 310.0       380.0    920.0                     1902.0                   2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    147.5        253.4     353.0                    1259.9                   2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   39.6         46.1      50,1
URBAN POPUIATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9        34.3      41.3                      65.7                     47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      110.0       128.1    138.1                       35.2                     83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    198.0       288.1     331.3                      92.5                    155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           ..        48.7      48.7                      39.7                     31.1
15-64 YRS.                           ..        44.2      44.1                     56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    ..         7.1       7.2                       4.2                      7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.2         1.5       0.8                       2.4                      1.6
URBAN                              3.4         3.6       2.7                       3.8                      3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    41.1         24.8      24.4                      31.4                     23.6
CRUDE DEATH HATE (PER THOUSAND)    11.9         13.6      10.1                       8.4                      9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..          ..        ..                       2.1                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            ..          ..        ..                     110.0                    116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  133.8       122.8     130.0/c                   108.4                    125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          66.6        64.7      71.07,                    66.0                     92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       27.4        34.1      40. 87r                   34.0                     35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.9         4.1        ..                       5.6                      9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   59.9           ..        ..                      64.2                     67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           98.1        48.4      40.5                      64.2                     65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              9.8          ..        ..                      65.6
URBAN                             22.5          ..        ..                      78.9
RURAL                              4.6          ..        ..                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          .,        ..                      59.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                      75.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3300.0      3292.9    3313.3/c                  1617.3                   1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      227.1/d     315.8    237.87,                   1063.5                    634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            201.0       172.7     125.5/c                   477.4                    286.8
URBAN                               ..        72.5      89.17                    679.8                    192.0
RURAL                               ..      1009.6   1081.07r                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        15.3      12.0                      27.3                     20.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.0
URBAN                              3.7          ..
RURAL                              4.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.6
URBAN                              1.4
RURAL                              1.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             23.9
URBAN                             48.7
RURAL                             13.7



ANNEX I
- 32 -                                          Page l0 of 29
ST. KITTS-NEVIS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ST. KITTS-NEVIS               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
MOST RECENT ESTIM&TE)
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AME:RICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARY:      TOTAL                    ..          ..         ..                      104.3                      102.4
MALE                     ..          ..         ..                      106.4                      107.1
FEMALE                   ..          ..         ..                      103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     ..          ..         ..                       41.3                       60.2
MALE                     ..          ..         ..                       40.4                       66.4
FEMALE                   ..          ..         ..                       41.8                       54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OE' SECONDARY)  19.4          28.2         ..                       33.7                       31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             27.8         40.7       27.0/e                     29.9                       25.8
SECONDARY                              ..        31.6       l9.C70                     16.7                       22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         88.2           ..         ..                       79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          22.7         36.9         ..                       42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..      402.4                      270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..       84.5                      107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   50.5         64.8       30.2                       63.7                      112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        ..                        2.7                        4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         20.0         13.4/g    17.0/c,f,g
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       ..          ..         ..                       24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               46.0         34.2       44.4/c                     31.3                       38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.6         26.3       22.47E                     23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 50.0         29.0       34.0/c                     33.6                        44.5
MALE                                     ..           ..        ..                        50.4                       56.3
FEMALE                                  ..           ..         ..                       16.8                        32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  ..          1.9        1.6/c                      1.3                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
'JRBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                      184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
llRBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                      518.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                      371.1                      406.6
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962, /e 1976.
/f   Age 16 and above, data for earlier years includes persons age 14 and above;  /a For 1970 and 1977,
employed labor force only.
May, 1982



- 33 -ANNEX I
Page 11 of 29
ST. LUCIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ST. LUCIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVlACES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               0.6                                    MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        0.2                1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    170.0        360.0      900.0                       1902.0                    2323e9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         78.9        317.6      387.4                      1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    93.0           101.0      118.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..              ..       17.0                        65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         150.0        162.9      188.7                        35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    516.7           531.6     585.0                         92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              ..         49.6         ..                        39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                              ..         45.1         ..                        56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       ..          5.3         ..                         4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.6          0.8/c      1.6                         2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                         3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        42.3         41.2       30.7                        31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        12.8          8.5        6.6                         8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..           ..         ..                         2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)               ..           ..         ..                       110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     78.7          90.3      89.8/d                      108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            45.3          55.8       56.07/                      66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         21.8          30.5      30.77T                       34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        19.5           ..         ..                         5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.8              ..         ..                        64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             107.1         60.0       33.0                        64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         11.7       76.0/d                      65.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..          .                        78.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                        43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       62.0/d                      59.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                        75.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                        30o0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7750.0       3750.0    2850.0/d                     1617.3/                   1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..        606.9      504.471                    1063.541                    634.4/e
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BEI
TOTAL                               251.4        197.3      205.5/e                     477.4                      286.8
URRAN                                  ..           ..         ..                       679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                      1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..       25.5/e                      27.3                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.2          4.6
URBAN                                 3.7
RURAL                                 4.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.8          1.6
URBAN                                 1.4           ..
RURAL                                 l.9           ..
ACCESS r0 ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..         36.1
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



34 -                                ANNEX I
Page 12 of 29
ST. LUCIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ST. LUCIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       LAI'IN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     ..          ..       95.0/d                     104.3                     102.9
MALE                     ..           ..         ..                      106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                   ..          ..         ..                       103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     ..          ..         ..                        41.3                      60.2
MALE                     ..          ..         ..                        40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                   ..          ..         ..                        41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    ..             7.4/f     4.1/1                       33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.8         28.6       31.8/g                      29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                           24.9         19.8       16.4/g                      16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..         85.2        ..                         79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..        25.7       32.7/g                      42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PE 1 THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.5        554.5      726.5                       270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             *-        14.9       15.0/g                     107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..           ..      34.2                        63.7                      112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.3             5.0/h      ..                          2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         31.0         29.0       35.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       ..          ..         ..                        24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               48.3         40.0       35.4                        31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  20.0            ,        7.1                        23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    ..         29.0        ..                         33.6                      44.5
MALE                                     ..           ..        ..                         50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                                   ..          ..         ..                        16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY PATIO                  ..          1.9         ..                         1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                       184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USE PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                 ..           ..         ..                       518.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                       371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted grEoup averages for each indicator are popolation-weighted arithmatic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigrationi population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1977;  /e 1975;  /f Includes
part-time students;  /g 1976;  /h 1968.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
- 35 -                                         Page 13 of 29
ST. VINCENT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE)EAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               0.4                                    MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        0.2                1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    200.0        290.0      520.0                    1902.0                      2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         87.1        195.0      219.2                    1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    81.0            87.5      108.5
UREAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..              ..         ..                      65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         208.8        225.5      275.3                      35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    476.5           460.5      562.1                      92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              ..         51.2       44.9                      39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                              ..         43.9       50.4                      56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND AROVE                       ..          4.9        4.7                       4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.0          0.8/c      2.2                       2.4                        1.6
URBAA                                  ..           ..         ..                       3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        50.0         33.1       28.7                      31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER ThOUSAND)        15.0         10.7        6.9                       8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..           ..         ..                       2.1                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               ..           ..         ..                     110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.2          96.9      88.9/d                    108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             45.7         53.9       48.37E                    66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          16.7         23.9       21.6/d                    34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) HORTALITY RATE        21.9           ..         ..                       5.6                         9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         ..            .         ..                      64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             132.0         56.2       38.1                      64.2                        65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         17.1       25.0                      65.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                      78.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                      59.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                      75.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                      30.0
POPULATI(ON FER PHYSICIAN           10175.0       5468.8    4320.0/e                   1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1178.3/f      972.2    1144.07T                   1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               209.8        199.3      343.0/d                   477.4                      286.8
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                     679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                    1903.4
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED              ..           ..         ..                      27.3                        20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.9
URBAN                                 4.8
RURAL                                 4.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PIR ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.9          1.8
URBAN                                 1.7           ..         .
RURAL                                 2.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                  ..
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



- 36 -                            ANNEX I
Page 14 of 29
ST. VINCENT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE,AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE4
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLM.ENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      IOTAL                    ..        97.0       85.0/d,g              104.3                     102.9
HALE                    ..            .       8. 6.0/d,g            106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                  .8. ..                85./d,g               103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     ..          ..       35.C/d,g               41.3                      60.2
MALE                     ..          ..       30.0/d,g               40.4                      66.4
IEMALE                  ..           ..      39. F7W                41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (YO OF SECONDARY)    ..            6.4       2.1/h                 33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             30.3         32,1       18.1/h                 29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                           23.2            ..      20.97W                 16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..         95.0         ..                  79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS P'ER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.1         28.6       34.7/i                 42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..      300.0/e                270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS FER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..        7.0/e                107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULAIION                   24.7            ..        ..                   63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        I.O/e                 2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         25.0          24.0      32.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       ..        35.9       36.3                   24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               40.1           ..       30.0                   31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  23.8            ..        ..                   23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.0          26.7      30.8                   33.6                      44.5
MALE                                     ..         17.3      19.6                   50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                                   ..          9.7      11.2                   16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  ..          2.1        1.6                   1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCE.NT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUT'T POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                  518.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULAT'ION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                  ..
..Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not oniforn.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Receat Estimate, between 1976 and 1980.
/c   Due to oigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1977;  /e 1974;
/f 1962;  /g Staff estimate, as percentage of age groups 5-14 and 15-1S respectively;  /h 1975;  /i 1976.
May, 1982



- 37 -                                               ANNEX I
D T F SCiIA  DICATORS                            Page  15  of  29
Notes:  Although the data are dram. from suourae geeeraily jldged the mts0  authoritati-e and reliable, it should also he  noted that they may rot be inter-
mettenally co_porable becaose of the hack of standardised defini-tona and Concepts nted by different  -oantiehe  ih  collecting  the data.  The dfao ore, rnnr-
theiess. useful to describe orders of nagnitnde. indicate trends, and characteri-e certsir  tajor differen_         a betee    o ntrie.
The  referrece groupa 'a    (If tbe rare courery group of ohm  mubject country and t2) 0 country group vith someoho  higher -nertge moose tha  the cotntry groep
of she subject octry (eIcept for   "high Income   ff1 focErtera'' groop vhere "Middle Inco_e North Africa sod siddle Eaot" is oho.ee because of stronger
socic-coltorab  aff-ninis.)   lo tho refererne gouop data the averagrt are populaticn weighted arithmetic pgan. for each inditaroe end sho.n only ohe.
majority of the co antra  in e goccy hca dato for chat incicatore   litre the conerage of c.uetriem  anmng the indicetues depends en the a-ailability of dair
aod is aot soifor=, rtution  ,snt le roorcised hi  relating averages of -oe dndictor to a-oeher.  The.eavrrages are only ..aeful inceparlgS the vleue of
one indicator      a tite aeonf the country and reference groops.
ARiA (thousand tq.=)                                                                             Porulation per  .ospital Bed - tetai, nrban. acd rural - Popul=tion. (total,
Total - Tonal surface area  uorosinf loud area and inllod  oaters; 1979 dato.                    orban, cod etrai) divided by eheir respsondnd namber of haspital beda
AgriculStual - Eltimatt of afr-ltoccl area osed te=porerily or pertaneetly                       anoilahle in public  and prirate geceral and sprcialiged hotpital and re-
for hoops., Pastres. rarket aul kitchen gardens or to lie farlls; 1979 duta.                   habilitmtinncenters.  foapitals are estahliobants permanently staffed
by at le-at one phyticitn. Establinhteets pronidiog plircipaily .osnt-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1     - GNP per cr-ita  -stirates at corrent nar'et prices. cal-                dial -ae ate Pot inoclded.  Rural honpitals, hovener, include health
calated by sane cosnersion eethcd or World Bank Atlas (1978-80 basin); 1960,                     cod nrdical centers nor permanently staffed by a physiri-n (bht by
19Pf. oad 1uO0 dota.                                                                             medical atsistant, core. nidife, etc.) e_hich offer is-parie-rnts..-.
dation sod provide e lititrd rtage Of medical facilities.  P.or satis-
ENEgGY CSU.TION Phi CAPITA  ,- 1ual consu=pio  of co-acoriol eneogy (coal                          tical purposes nrhat  to,pitals idcladn WdOm yrincipalfgeoeeil hoapinals,
snd ligotte, petrole-t-1.,  taurl  - adnd hydro-, nooloar and geothermal  lec-                   and rural hospitals. local or rural hospitals and medical and mtternity
tricity) i  kalogr-on o  cool eqoinaleut per roita; 1960. 1970.  nd 1979                        renters.  Specialied hospitals see inrluded only tnder total.
data.                                                   .Adnisic hperlsitu Ned - Total m                                                       f admissions to or discharges
from  hospisals dinided bythe dnserotfrbeds.
POSPILATIIN AND VITAL STAlITSTICS
Ttotl Population, etid-Ceac lnhljuuaudc  - An oh July 1; I960, 1970, and 1980                YOUlING
dela                                                                                         Average Siee of Yvusehold (pecn  per heosobold) - total, urban, and rural-
Urban Population (percent of total) - Alait of trbao  ro total population;                       A household cotaists of a group Of individoal sh.o ahere lining quarters
diffnrent definiti-n  of urban areas 'oa   affect co-pooability of data                        and their main  eali_.  A boarder or lodget map or may  eot he included is
a-cg co_ntries; 1960, 197l , and 19d0 data.                                                    the heusehold for statintic-l purposes.
Population Prcjectioes                                                                         Avreragedn=er of persona per r-oe-total, crba, and tura  -maerage sum-
Populatiac ho year T200  - Currect populati-o  projietiurt ar  baa.ed o0  19ff                 her of persos- pee rosi in all u-ba, and rurol ociupird coenetiomab
total population by ago ennde  ad  rheir norrality cod ferr yllfrats.                        delliog.,        Deupectlneby.  Iselliugs e-clude com-permaset structures and
ProIectirn para .eteco for              - roalury racea coeprite of three lereln asno=-     unrorupled parts.
ing life expectmncy a. bim,  increoaing vith cou- try's per capita i_ome                  Aucess to garotrtioty (percert of dweligs)  -aai nra, sad  -r   -
lenel, and fe=ale life  -.;. -srcp stabiliaing et 77.5 years.  The para-                    Covenettiona  dwllilgs vith erectricity it living quartero as percestage
meters foe fertility rat. .       h.sa bane three lenels oaasuicg decline io                 of Itoal, urban, and rural dArllingo rep-ectnolpy.
fertility accerd_ng ;o inch.ue leoel and pose f-ioly planning perfur=ance.
kach cooncry is then ossien.  d coo of these nice  oo-biuatioos of =rorality            EDUICATIAN
and fartilsoy trrndn for projectico  purpoaes.                                            Adjosted fErtlme-t Ratios
Sctaionary  opoplanon -OIn-a stationary p`puiarlon oher-  in to g-owtbh oioo                   Primary nohoni - I.to., malr and female - Gross torah, male end fe=ale
the birth rate ia equal to the de-th rate, and also the age structuee re-                      enrollesnt of alL agen at the primary level as percentages of raspertire
Rsols conetiat.  Ibis in ouhoered only aftr rfertility raeea declit  to                        primary school-age Pvpulationi; nor=ally include- children eged 6-11
the replacameuc level uf onltt  not repo ofd non race, wher eoch generations yea- but adjusted for differaet lengths of primary nd-cctio,; for
tf comee  reploces  toaelf eu_lcy .  The stationary populattoc siae eat                        countriet  ith  niveresal  education enrollvent may exceed 100 percent
estimated o- the baa-s of the projectad ohartertsttcs of the popoleicuc                        niece so=e pupils ore beloa or sbove the official school age.
ip the yar Z000. add the rate ofdelnr oferllty rate to _eplace- t_condary  chool -ota.   le  od fele - Co ted  s ab_oe;secondary
mast leve1.                                                                                    education tenutirs at lrot font yrars of ayproo-d primary anstrution;
a stati           o     tin              - TPe year y hee orar-honey  pnlmcicn                   pro-iden geoeral. nuo-tionab. oe tactee training instructionn for p.pils
ize  mill he erached.                                                                          usually of 12 to 17 yeara of afei; tortespondence  --rses are geer-ally
Populatlou arcoicydrecluded.
Peeso.A. - Mid-year popolacio-   per suanre kilometer (f00 hecrares) of                      V-uatinal ernrllteen  (percent of seonndary) - Vocational institurions
trial area; i960. 1970 cod 1979 d_to.                                                        incl.do nechica. indastr-lL, oe otber programs ehich operate icdepted-
Peras. kn. agricultulland-Co=puted asabovefor agricultural laud                                entlyorasdepormeoracf secondary icatitutana.
only; l96Ad, 19710 aid 0979 coca.                                                          Pup'l-teacber rario - primarn. and sm?n- dary  - Total students enrolled in
PPopolailon Aft Ocruciorn )(perrer   - Children (0-14 years), -orking-age (15-                  pramary and .ercodary leneis divided by n-bmers of teachers in she
64 years). sod re-tred  (61 pra  end over) as percencages of =id-year puo-                     currespording levels.
Iation  1960, 1971, cod 1so9 data.                                                           Adult literacy rate (percent) - Lieeate adults labe   to read sod vrite)
Pacnliicoiaethntt(peh u- Annual cr0I-th ra-es of t-al  id-                   saaprcentageoftrotladolrpupnlaclonaged f              yeamr aondlover.
year populatint for 1950-tI, 1960-n0, and 1970-Rh.
Popolotion iroseb sore (perceoc) - orhAv-notual groml       h tacos of _rbun Popu-          CO_NSUNPTION
...fons for 1915-60, 1960-70, and Id70-80.                                                   Passnger Cars (per th-usard popoLatloc) - Pasumoger -o- co,eptie motor
Crude girIt re (p   tho        d) -   -Anul 'ive hi-ths per -rousad of mid-year                  iros   Iatnuhg leon rhan eight percocs; exclades aehublar-e, hearses and
population; b9bO, 1970, and 1980 data.                                                         eilltory  -ehicles.
Crude leoch Rltr (pee rhousand) - so-al deathc per thoustnd  of =id-year                       Radlo Raeieles (per ihousand popalation) - All types of receivers for radio
puynlarion  1960, 1970C. -d 1990 data.                                                         hrcadcarstro general pohldI  pgr tbouaaod of populaeion; eurlodes so-
Grton Reproducticn sre - Aceate n-thar of d-acghter  a so-un sill beao  it                       licensed receioers ia  countries and in  ears w-hen regis-ration of radio
her norl eeproductine period if  ho experieccec present age-s.e.cifi  fer-                     set vas ic eLfet; data for recent yearn rsy  ot be-coWable since
riLdtry rares: usually Pine-yesar ceragee ooduc1 in 19h, 1970. od 1980.                         nsr ncontrisu obliahed lic-nniog.
Pastlyt, Annual  rhoausnds)- AnnouAal.= e- t f acceptors             PPV ierecivr  (pth-adpritiotfTVr-e-oera  forbroadaar to
ot blnrus-conteo  drice, under -uopi-ca  of nacionul fasuly plasncog progra=.                  general public prr thIaoand population:; mooudes unlicensed TV  -ecei-ers
heetilp Planfning-Users poorest oh nxruerd .osePI - Percencage tf married                        in co_uries   din Years ahen registration of TV sets wee in effect.
aumer ot child-bearinf age (ly-ib yeorn) shO cue hntth-nuttoh   devihesco                    deaspaper Circolatiot (per thohstDd pupel__iost      - shoes the average tir-
all married cameo In sama age group.                                                           tulation  t "daily general intrestnrstpaprr", defined eta pee odical
poblication devotrd primarlly to recording general sees. lt ih considered
FOOD AND NUTTRITION                                                                                fo he "dily  if ft appears at leasr four tImes amerk.
Index of tcod Peoduction~pyy lapitoet196h-Il-libj - Inder  of per capita unnual               Cinema Anooal Aendasce per Coylce Prr roar-eased on the nu.ber of
productihtnf atl hood copendisies.  Producihon etcludes need and frod mad                      tickets sold daring the Trot, including admissioca to dtie-in rinem-n
iocc 1-ndar- yerasis.  Cosofhirncver prlbar-   gocds (e.g. sugarcare                           nd qpbilt nits.
tnceead -f,I nglahich aredilel  -d conain nurr t  (e.g. goffeeand
tea are e_rluded).  Aggregate prodoucior of each country is based or                      LA9BO  FORC'd
sartionlrvrage producer price o ights; 1961-65, 1970, and 1980 data.                        Tota          FrlLaor Po    (,.o.sards) - Econo-ically a-tive persons, including
Pe            py of calorie                                 - Coepseed true                      a=ted focrcs and unerployed ht excluding hnswipes, ftudrn.., en
anergy eqruoalact of see ford n-ppluos  -ailahle or -oun-ry per ca- pia                        coneelg populaion  of all ages.  DefiDitions it  narloas cosotries err
per doy.  Anailable supplies comprise domestic prod-cri-e. imports leau                        cot cop-rable; 1960, 1970 and 1980 deco.
esports,cdctaefsu_so-k.  Nets-ppl-e -ldeaa-If , sed                                                                F-nes ,n  Stc. e e C     peed ts,age of  .r.1olabrforor.
qoasaities ooed in ford processing_ -ad louses in dincrlbuetn-.  Require-                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in far=ing, forestry. hunting and
rents vere   esiltaCed by FA0 based on physilogical ereCd  hoc normal a-ri-                      fishing as peecencagr of Cotai labor force; 1960, 1970 and l980 data.
oily and hbalrt considerlug enisronaart _l temperathr, body  deights, age                      Iadustry  percent) - iabcr for-e to =ining. gconsrcuics,  -anofacturing
cad sac distribction of PoPolactor. and alolokig 13 percent fur =aste as                         ad  1lt        y           d      as percentage of tul labur force;
ho'enhold lerel; 1961-bS, 19o0 fnd 1977 data.                                                    19.60  1971 and 19f1  date.
Per copr O grast per do) - Protei   -en  of per capita           Pc ticipatirn Rate (percenc) - so l, male, and fe-ale - Prticipatioc or
net supplh oh food pee day.  Ten a.pply of food is defired an uhoor, he-                       -ctuolty tales ore computed as total, maIr. cod female lahor forte as
qocremenar  hot all countries rchchtoshed ho USeA prouhdc for =niotman                         heroentages of total, role and temaale populntion ot alt ages rempe.ctiiely;
ullovnrcos uP 60 frman  of  re    procaln par day and  'f graauP aotaah aad                    1960,- 197, aod 1980 dato.  Tb_ae nre hosed 00  it's partiripouroces
pulsa proteio. oh vhich I  grama  should be ano1l prto-i-.  Thboe staed-                       reflecting age-art structure no  che populati-o, and lorn  time trend.  A
dt sre love-  rh-  bchos-e f 7   r       of ural prot       o sd 2l3ara o` f                   fe.es.itcatsare  fro= natLotalo-rce.
a,i-n1 Pruteic .s on one, -g  for the o rld, p-opose7 by YAf in ne Thhrd                    iconoeic bepeodeocy soR     -  artio of pcpalct-n tod-r 15 -nd 65 a-d ovor
_orld locd Sbrney; 1961-65, t970 and 1977 dare.                                                co the coral labor force.
Pe efrm         a =andpolse-Prottin supp4 of f  dde-
rived froc animsaLs and plus tsoin gra=s per day; 1961-65, 19d7  sod 1977 date.           InCOL  DISTRIUTIlON
Childlairs 1- Dtatch  aRet (per irousad) -   ..aual d_uths pet thousand in                     P           o  Ph                                         - hemied by eibheat
age group, -4 years,tchlldren  c thi  age gro-, for =ost developing c -                        5 peercent, rchestl2  percent,pooeete20 percent.oadpoorec 40percent
tries dune derlied fro= life tables; 1960, 1970 and 19b0 dara.                                 of householdu.
PRALTH                                                                                         PoVpRY TARGET Gay OUPS
Life lopecrcucy at Birth (Years) - Anerage cnuber of years of life remaliig                    The foIuloWg  -scieT-rs are verv approsimate ggasures of poverty levels,
at birth; 1960. 1970 and 1980 ort.                                                             and shocld be interpreted eith considerable -ation.
Iefant b'trtality Rthe (per thccsaod) - cnnual deaths of cnfants coder one year                isnitad Absolute Ptvety Income irsel (ath per capita) - urban and roeal -
of age per thocsand live births; 196b. 1970 add l980 data.                                     Absolute poeNrty income aevel is that inooma level below vehich a Aema:l
_aess  o  Stfr cater (percent ot pooclacirn) - total, urban, and rural - No-                     otri tonalip adequate diet plum enseersal non-focd  reqoitesenis is sot
her of prpple  (total. urtad, and roral) with reasonable acceas to soft                        affordable.
water sapply (ieclndes treated   artfare setees or untreated  hot unonta=simated             tmt=saed Reiative Poverey Incove Leo  1USf per capita) - orhsn mud  rur   -
eater such as that froa ptoi-cied boreholes, springs. asdssnitary weblls am                    Rural relasine porerty isoema level it one-thied of average per capita
p_ecentages of their respectiv1 popletions.  Ina an sIba  ara  pebllr                          pere.sol isnmre of the .o-mtry.  Urbes level is deri-ed from  the rral
fosntain or satadpost located sot mere tian 000 meters from a house may be                     level with adjcmtmess for higher ost of liviog in urban are. s.
considered as being tithln reassemble access of that baoue.  IDtoeal areas t..im.ted Polatin  esi  Absolute Poverty Iscome Lesel (percent) - other
renamsable accems mould imply that the hos-vife or =etbens of the hbtsehold                   and rsral - Perce=t of populatin  (orbs and renal) vh  are  'absolute
do net hbe to speed    disproprriodmate parn of the day  is frething the                       poor'.
family's vmter seeds.
soRems no inreeta Dsporsal (percent of population) - totai, urbae, med rural -
Number of people (total. urban. and rural) served bp excreta disposal as
percenrages of theer -rspe-i-e pnelnlss.  torrete diaposal may *ncludt
the ralleethes amd dipeemb, me-t  or - itsmet ersetnemt, of bsaa  esreta
and mineen-eaten by  aatee-hore systems or the use of pit privies add sivi-
lee itstallstteis.
Populatio  per Phyesitah    - Popelation divided by asber of peactising physi-                                                       tmEm-ie and Soatel Dets Dthissia
nasaS quliffed fram a sedijal s-hoel an   i-yvere y -p leerS.                                                                gRomeie Amalyiet and Pe.Jejeikem   Defartest:
Pupsianin  er Ifsese  Peesas - PopsIiNien divided by  tunber of prareteteg                                                                        lay 1982
ate end tfeatl gRedate rupees, a:sistams  an. ss, prastteal ueses and
-ms.int  seahistnm.



-38-                                              ANNEX I
Page 16 of 29
Population ('000):       76 (1981)
GNP per capita:  US$1,560 (1981)
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA - ECONOMIC DATA
Amount
(million US$ at                   Growth Rate (1)
current prices)       -----Actual (at constant 1977 prices) ------------
1.981           1978        1979       1980       1981        1982C/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/            123.9             9.1        7.6        7.8         2.7        4.5
Agriculture                          7.0            6.1        -7.2        7.8      -22.3        10.2
Mining & Industry                   20.7           11.0        20.2       15.7        8.6       -0.9
Services                           78.8              7.2        7.3        4.8        3.1         3.1
Consumption                          118.4             4.2       36.2        7.4         1.2       10.6
Gross Investment                      63.1             9.8       12.6       22.9       20.3       -47.7
Exports of GNFS                       81.1            17.9        0.7       20.4       - 2.6        8.2
Imports of GNFS                      138.7             8.3       31.7       25.2        8.7      -12.2
Gross National Savings                12.9            32.9      -61.0      -22.2        31.5       -0.5
PRICES
GDP deflator (market prices)                       104.3      119.6      140.4      158.6       168.0
Exchange rate (EC$/US$)                             2.7         2.7        2.7        2.7         2.7
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                   Average Annual Increases (%)
(at current prices)                             (at constant 1977 prices)
1973       1977       1981                                  1977-81
Gross Domestic Productb/                             100.0      100.0      100.0                                      6.7
Agriculture                                          6.1        7.2        6.6                                    -3.9
Mining and Industry                                 19.1       12.9       16.7                                     13.6
Services                                           66.0        67.6       63.6                                     5.5
Indirect taxes less subsidies                       8.8        12.4       13.1
Consumption                                            n.a.      93.2       95.5                                     12.5
Gross Investment                                       n.a.      33.9       51.0                                     15.3
Exports of GNFS                                        n.a.      46.7       65.5                                      9.6
imports of GNFS                                       n.a.       73.8      111.9                                     18.3
As 1 of GDP
1977       1979       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE (Central Government)
Current revenues                                   20.3        21.6       22.8
Current expenditures                               23.9        23.1       26.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                         -3.6       -1.5        -3.3
Capital expenditures                                 7.5       11.7       10.8
Foreign financing                                    8.2       10.9        7.1
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of
net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Projected years at constant prices.
c} Estimate.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 17 of 29
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA - ECONOMIC DATA
Composition of Merchandise Trade
1981
)
(US$ Million)                                      (Current US$ Million)                (at current prices)
1977        1981                    1977         1981
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                          31.7           Exports                            6.6        31.7                   100.0        100.0
Of which:  re-exports                      21.7             Re-exports                       4.6        21.7                    69.7         68.5
Primary                                        1.2            Domestic                         2.0        10.0                    30.3         31.5
Of which:  re-exports                       0.4                Primary                       (.9)       (1.8)                  (13.6)        (2.5)
Manufacturing                                 30.5               Manufacturing                (1.1)       (9.2)                  (16.7)       (29.0)
Of which:  re-exports                      21.3
Merchandise imports                          137.0           Imports                          40.5       137.0                   100.0        100.0
Food                                       36.9             Food                           10.8         36.9                    25.9         26.9
Petroleum                                  17.8             Petroleum                       6.5         17.8                    16.1         13.0
Machinery & Equipment                      35.0             Machinery and Equipment          9.6        35.0                    23.7         25.5
Others                                     47 . 3           Others                         13.6         47.3                    34 . 3       34.6
Actual
1977       1978       1979        1980       1981        1982 d/
(In millions of US dollars at current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                                    31.3        42.1       48.9        70.2       81.0       87.1
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. e/                 (6.6)     (12.6)      (10.2)     (27.7)    (31.7)       (34.4)
Imports of GNFS                                    42.6        48.7       76.4      115.7       141.4      120.5
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.                   (40.5)    (46.3)       (73.1)   (112.0)   (137.0)   (115.6)
Net factor services and
transfers                                         0.1        2.9         2.3        2.8         4.3        7.5
Current Account Balance                           -11.2        -3.7      -25.2      -42.7       -56.1      -25.9
Private direct investment f/                        0.5         3.5       11.1        34.4       32.3        16.0
MLT loans (net) and grants                          7.0         2.5        2.6         7.1        7.3         2.5
Other capital                                       3.6        -2.3       11.6         0.4       16.2         7.2
Change in reserves (increase--) g/                  0.1         -         -0.1         0.8        0.3         0.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                                 8.1        14.6       12.3        11.5       47.5        13.0
Official grants                                   1.6         1.5        1.9        4.1         3.6        1.6
Commercial loans
Suppliers Credits                               1.5         .1         1.9                    9.5
Financial Institutions                          1.2       11.9         7.3        3.5        30.6       10.0
Non-comercial loans
Bilateral                                       2.7        0.5                    0.1         2.6
Other multilateral                              1.1          .6        1.2        3.8         1.2        1.4
External Debt
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed
Official h/                                  20.8        20.5       30.7        34.3       51.5        58.8
Private
Debt Service
Total service payments                            0.6         1.7        2.3        4.7        11.4        3.9
Interest                                      0.5          .5        1.7         1.8        1.8         1.4
Payment as B of exports i/                        2.2        5.0         5.5        9.1        19.2        5.9
d/  Estimated.
e/  Does not include oil refinery operations-
f/ Includes errors and omissions-
g/ Includes net ECCA borrowing-
h/  Debt outstanding less loan proceeds sterilized  in foreign currency deposit accounts.
i/  Includes domestic exports only and nonfactor services receipts.



-40-               ~7ANNEX I
Page 18 of 29
Population(000): 84 (1981)
GNP per capita:  US$660 (1981)
DOMINICA - ECONOMIC DATA
Amount
(US$ million at                         Growth Rate (%)
current prices)       -----Actual (at constant 1977 prices)------
1981           1977        1978       1979       1980        1981 C/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product                59.1             3.4        9.1       -9.5      -10.1         8.0
Agriculture                          ..             0.5        19.1      -23.7      -30.8       21.8
Industry                             ..            13.3        13.7       -8.6       15.1         1.6
Services                             ..             4.6         1.8        1.8         -         3.0
Consumption                           66.2             9.9       15.5       -2.0         2.3      -16.7
Gross Investment                      19.9            -2.5        2.5       37.4        17.9       -7.0
Exports of GNFS                       21.6            -3.1       20.5       -9.4      -40.0        39.2
Imports of GNFS                       48.6             5.8       24.9       14.7       -0.7      -20.i
Gross Domestic Savings                -7.1
PRICES
GDP deflator (market prices)                      100.0       109.9      126.4      156.5      172.3
Exchange rate (EC$/US$)                             2.70        2.70       2.70       2.70        2.70
Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)                        Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices) b/                             (at constant 1977 prices)
1977       1978       1979       1980        1981           1976-78        1978-80        1976-80
Gross Domestic Product                               100.0      1OO.0      100.0      100.0       100.0               6.2          -9.7           -2.2
Agriculture                                        38.5        42.0       35.4       27.3       30.7                9.7         -27.5           -6.4
Industry                                            5.3         5.5        5.6        7.1        6.7              13.5            2.5            7.9
Services                                           56.2        52.5       59.0       65.6       62.6                3.2           0.9            2.0
Consumption                                          99.6       103.3      116.6      139.8       112.0              12.7           0.1            5.0
Gross Investment                                      20.5       19.1       29.9       39.6        33.7                -           27.5           12.8
Exports of GNFS                                      41.9        45.9       43.7       31.2        36.5               8.1         -26.5          -10.8
Imports of GNFS                                      62.0        68.3       90.2      110.6        82.2              13.2          -9.5           -2.1
Gross Domestic Savings                                 0.4       -3.3      -16.6      -39.8        12.0
As % of GDP
1977        1979       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Reveaue                                    38.0         34.2       47.2
Current Expenditures                               46.4         51.8       49.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                         -8.4       -17.6        -2.4
Capital Expenditure                                14.1         16.9       26.9
Foreign Financing (net)                             17.4        26.9       21.7
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
F/  Sector components in constant 1977 prices.
c/ Estimate.



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Page 19 of 29
DOMINICA - ECONOMIC DATA
Amount              Composition of
(US$ million at       Merchandise Trade (%)    Average Annual Increase (%)
current prices)         (at current prices)         (at constant 1977 prices)
1981
1977        1981       1976-78     1978-81     1979-81
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Domestic Exports                16.5                100.0       100.0           8.0        -8.9        -3.1
Bananas                                    8.4                 59.0        50.9          4.4        -9.2        -4.9
Other                                      8.1                 41.0        49.1          8.9        -8.8        -2.6
Merchandise Imports                         47.6                100.0       100.0          14.9        -3.3         4.5
Food                                       9.6                 28.3        20.2
Chemicals                                  7.0                 12.8        14.7
Manufactured Goods                        12.8                 30.1        26.9
Capital Goods                              7.7                 11.9        16.2            ..
Other                                     10.5                 16.9        22.0           ..
PRICES
1977        1978         1979        1980        1981
Export Price Index                                            100.0       109.0        119.2       158.1        158.0
Import Price Index                                            100.0       105.7        126.8       174.3       194.1
Terms of Trade Index                                          100.0       103.1         94.0        90.7         81.4
Actual
1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
(in millions of US dollars at current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of Goods & Services                      15.0        19.7       19.5       15.5       21.6
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 (12.0)    (15.9)       (9.4)      (9.0)    (17.0)
Imports of Goods & Services                      22.2       29.3       40.3        55.0       48.6
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 (21.9)    (28.5)    (39.4)    (52.8)    (47.6)
Net Factor Services and
Transfers d!                                       1.7       3.4         6.7        5.6        5.3
Current Account Balance                          -5.5       -6.2      -14.1      -33.9       -21.7
Private Direct Investment
Public Capital (net)                              6.0         6.7       21.2       20.5       12.9
Grants                                         (4.0)      (5.6)    (20.6)    (17.5)         (9.8)
Loan Disbursement                              (2.0)      (1.1)      (0.6)      (3.6)       (3.3)
Amortization                                   ( - )      ( - )      ( - )    (-0.6)    (-0.2)
Commercial Banks (net)                           -0.1        0.4       -7.2         6.7         -
Other Capital                                    -0.5       -0.5        0.5         6.9        9.5
Change in Reserves (- = increase)                 0.1       -0.4       -0.4       -0.2        -0.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL & DEBT
Gross disbursement                                5.7        6.8       21.4        20.0       13.1
Official Grants (public capital)               (4.0)      (5.6)    (20.6)    (17.5)         (9.8)
Loans                                          (1.7)      (1.2)      (0.8)      (2.5)       (3.3)
External Debt
Debt Outstanding & Disbursed c/                10.4        11.2      11.8       14.4        17.0
Debt Service
Total Service Payments                          0.3        0.5        0.4        0.5         0.6
Payment as % Exports (of goods & nfs)           2.0        2.5        2.6        3.2         2.8
Average Interest Rate (%)                          3.3        3.8        3.2        2.7        2.6
a/ Private transfers only.
E/ Includes grants.
7/  Excludes debt to the IMF and ECCA and includes publicly guaranteed debt.



-42 -                                    ANNEX I
-42-                           ~~~~~~~Page 20of 29
Population ('000):  110 (1981)
GNP per capita:  US$880 (1981)
GRENADA - ECONOMIC DATA
Amount                       Annual Growth Rate (1)
(million US$ at
cur:rent prices)    -------Actual (at constant 1977 prices)-------
1981           1977       1978       1979       1980       1981 c/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product               96.9             5.8        5.3        2.1        3.1        3.2
Consumption                          94.5            10.0       11.5       -5.2        5.9       -1.2
Gross Investment                     29.3             8.6      -19.8      129.1      -26.9       48.9
Exports of GNFS                      36.3             8.5        5.9        1.9       -8.9        1.3
Imports of GNFS                      63.3            17.2        8.0       11.2      -12.8        1.8
Gross National Savings                4.6
PRICES
GDP deflator (market prices)                      100.0     118.0       136.3      155.9      170.6
Exchange rate (EC$/US$)                             2.70       2.70       2.70       2.70       2.70
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                  Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)b/                         (at constant 1977 prices)
1977       1978       1979       1980       1981           1976-78        1978-80
Gross Domestic Product a/                           100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0               3.7           1.7
Agriculture                                       27.5        24.4       25.4       22.0
Industry                                           6.1        5.6        5.4        11.0                 ) n.a.
Services                                          49.1       51.3       50.6        51.0
(Indirect t:axes-Subsidies)                      (17.3)    (18.7)    (18.6)    (16.0)
Consumption                                          94.3       96.8       94.3       99.7       97.6               7.4           0.1
Gross Investment                                     16.9       12.4       28.5       20.4       30.3             -4.5           18.8
Exports of GNFS                                      54.4       55.1       55.3       44.4       37.5               4.7          -2.4
Imports of GNFS                                      65.6       64.3       78.1       64.5       65.4               8.2          -1.0
Gross National Savings                                6.2        5.2        7.8        2.8        4.7            -20.6          -23.2
As f of GDP
1977     1979      1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                          24.8      27.9      23.9
Current expenditures                                      23.3      27.4      24.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                 1.5       0.5      -0.5
Capital expenditure                                        4.7      21.1      29.1
Foreign financing                                          4.5      20.5      21.9
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to eacclusion of
net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Projected years at constant prices.
c/ Estimate.



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Page 21 of 29
GRENADA - ECONOMIC DATA
Amount               Composition of           Average Annual
(million USS at    Merchandise Trade (%)            Increase (%)
current prices)       (at current prices)  (at constant 1977 prices)
1981                 1977        1981      1976-78      1978-80
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             18.8                100.0       100.0        -5.2         -6.8
Bananas                        3.7                 22.5        19.7        -2.0         -5.5
Cocoa                          7.0                23.2         37.2        -3.3         -8.6
Nutmeg                        3.0                  41.6        16.0       -10.1         -8.1
Other                         5.0                  12.7        27.1        -3.0          1.6
Merchandise imports             58.0                100.0       100.0         3.4           0.5
Consumer goods               29.9                  63.3        51.6         4.0         -3.7
Intermediate goods           14.7                  19.1        25.3         1.7          7.1
Capital goods                13.4                  15.6        23.1         2.9          8.9
PRICES                          1977                 1978        1979        1980         1981
Export price index          100.0                 129.8       149.7       161.1        134.0
Import price index          100.0                 112.9       145.5       162.4        182.2
Terms of Trade Index        100.0                 115.0       102.9        99.2         73.5
Actual
1977      1978       1979        1980       1981
(In millions of US dollars at current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods & services                      27.0        34.0       40.3       38.1       36.3
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 (14.2)    (17.0)    (21.7)    (17.0)    (18.8)
Imports of goods & services                      32.6       39.7        56.9      55.4        63.3
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.                 (31.4)    (35.7)    (53.6)    (52.2)    (58.0)
Net transfers                                     0.3         1.3        1.6        1.7        2.3
Current Account Balance                          -5.3       -4.4      -15.0      -15.6      -24.7
Private direct investment                          1.3        1.4        0.5        -          -
MLT loans (net)                                    2.8        1.2       15.6       10.5       25.8
Official                                       (2.4)      (1.8)    (16.6)    (10.1)    (27.8)
Private (Commercial banks)                     (0.4)    (-0.6)    (-1.0)        (0.4)    (-2.0)
Other Capital                                      1.5        1.5      -1.0         5.5       -1.8
Change in reserves (-increase)                   -0.3        0.3       -0.1       -0.4         0.7
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
EXTERNAL CAPITAL & DEBT
Gross disbursement                                 4.3        2.7
Official grants (pu  ic capital)                2.2        0.6        14.9        9.3       20.6
Concessional loans                              0.2         1.2        1.7       0.8        7.2
Nonconcessional loans                           1.9        0.9       -2.0        5.9        -3.8
External Debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed d/                 7.1        7.5        9.8       11.2       17.1
Undisbursed debt                                n.a.
Debt Service
Total service payments                          0.5         1.0       0.6         1.0        1.4
Payment as I exports (of goods & nfs)           1.7        2.7        1.4         2.9        3.7
d/  Excludes debt to the IMF and ECCA and includes publicly guaranteed debt.



_ 44 -
ANNEX I
Population ('000):    12  (1981)                                                                                  Page 22 of 29
GNP per capital:   1,640  (1981)
MONTSERRAT ECONOMIC DATA
Amount
(milliLon US$ at                         Growth Rate (X)
curr,ent prices)    ------------------------Actual--------------------------
1981           1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982b/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/         20.2          -2.5        4.9       14.6        7.9        4.6       3.5
Agriculture                      1.1          -1.5       -0.2        3.5       -2.6       3.1        3.5
Manufacture                      1.3          -2.5       34.2        9.0        4.8        7.4       3.5
Construction                     2.4         -14.6       10.4       45.0        1.7       5.2        3.5
Other (Services)                11.7          -3.5        3.4        7.9       10.0       2.4        3.5
Consumption                       22.7          -8.1       15.6       17.4       21.4        3.0       3.5
Gross investment                   8.7         -16.5       19.5        9.2        9.3      -5.2        3.5
Exports of GNFS                    7.6            4.3      18.1       -8.2       -7.7      29.2        4.0
Imports of GNFS                   18.9         -14.1       31.6        6.7       20.8       4.5        3.5
Gross nationial savings           -2.5            n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       0.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (market prices)   100.0             63.5      66.5       73.0       85.7     [00.0      110.0
Exchange rate (EC$/US$)            2.7            2.7       2.7        2.7        2.7        2.7       2.7
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)        Average Aninual Increases (%)
(at current prices)                 (at constant 1977 prices)
1976      1981                           1976-81
Gross domestic product a/                         100.0      100.0                             6.6
Agriculture                                       9.6       5.5                              0.4
Manufactures                                      6.3       6.3                              9.9
Construction                                     13.2      11.7                             7.9
Services                                         60.4      57.9                             4.0
Consumption                                       111.1      112.8                             9.2
Gross investment                                   45.5      43.1                              2.5
Exports GNFS                                       31.9       37.6                             6.1
Imports GNFS                                       88.5      93.6                              8.8
Gross national savings                            -11.1     -12.8                              n.a.
As x of GDP
1977     1979      1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenews            (Central Gov't)                28.6      32.4        35.4
Current expenditures        (Central Gov't)                32.6      34.4        33.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-) (Central Gov't)                 -4.0      -2.0         2.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-) (Total Public Sector)           -2.4      -0.3         3.8
Capital expenditures        (Tota;L Public Sector)         13.3      12.2        21.4
Foreign financing           (Total Public Sector)          18.4      12.7        13.0
a!  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of
net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Estimate.



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 23 of 29
MONTSERRAT - ECONOMIC DATA
Amount
(million US$ at
current prices)
1981                                          1977        1978         1979       1980       1981        1982 C/
EXTERNAL TRADE                                            PRICES
Merchandise exports                        2.2            Export price index            56.3        61.5        69.4        91.1       100.0       110.0
Import price index           65.6         71.2        80.2       93.4       100.0       108.0
Merchandise imports                       18.6            Terms of trade index          85.8        86.4        86.5        97.5       100.0       101.8
Food                                     3.6
Fuel                                     2.3
Machinery and equipment                  3.6
Others                                  9.1
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z>
(at current prices)
1976        1981
Exports                                                       100.0       100.0
Food                                                        15.8          6.9
Manufactures                                                35.8         51.5
Other                                                       48.4         41.6
Imports                                                       100.0       100.0
Food                                                        27.1         19.4
Fuels                                                        6.0         12.4
Machinery and equipment                                      15.7        19.4
Others                                                      51.2        48.9
Actual
1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982 d/
(In millions of US Dollars at current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                                 3.4        4.4        4.5        5.5        7.6         8.4
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                 (0.6)      (1.4)      (0.8)      (1.2)      (2.2)       n.a.
Imports of GNFS                                 7.0       10.0       12.0       16.9        18.9      20.9
Of which: Merchandise c.i.f.                 (7.0)    (10.0)    (12.0)    (16.5)    (18.5)           n.a.
Net factor services and
transfers                                     4.7        4.7        4.9        5.5        5.0        5.5
Current account balance                            1.1      -0.9       -2.6       -5.9        -6.3       -7.0
Private capital                                  -3.3       -0.2         0.7        3.8        3.6        3.4
Public Capital                                    3.4         1.4        1.8        2.2        2.7        3.6
Change in reserves
(increase - -)                                 -1.2       -0.3        0.2       -0.1         -          -
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                             3.4         1.5        1.9        2.3        2.8        3.7
Official grants                               3.1        1.3        1.7        2.0        2.2        3.1
Concessional loans                            0.3        0.2        0.2        0.3        0.6        0.6
External Public Debt
(disbursed)                                 0.7        0.9        1.1        1.4        2.0        2.6
Debt service - Total                            0.02       0.08       0.05       0.07       0.08        0.08
Interest                                      0.02       0.05       0.01       0.02       0.02       0.02
Payments                                       -         0.03       0.04       0.05       0.06       0.06
Payments as % exports                         0.6        1.8        1.1        1.3         1.0        1.0
Average interest rate (%)                          5.5        4.2        3.7        4.5        4.5        5.0
c/ Estimate.
d/ Estimate.



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Population ('000):   50 (1981)                                                                                        Page 24 of 29
GNP per capita: US$1010 (1981)
ST. KITTS-NEVIS - ECONOMIC DATA
Atmount
(milli on US$ at                   Growth Rate (x)
currenit prices)  ------------------Actual---------
. 981          1978       1979       1980       1981       1982b/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/            51.7             5.9        5.1        3.3        0          3.2
Agriculture                         n.a.         -13.7       -6.2        -6.6       -4.7        7.4
Mining & Industry                   n.a.            3.3       18.3       10.0        3.3        3.2
Services                            n.a.           11.4        7.3        1.3        1.5        1.5
Consumption                          59.7            21.6        2.6       19.3        9.3        -.1
Gross Investment                     15.5           -18.4       13.4       -1.5      -10.9        8.7
Exports of GNFS                      28.0             4.9       -3.0      -13.1       :O.5        5.8
Imports of GNFS                      51.5            10.5       -0.8        9.4        8.2        1.7
Gross National Savings                2.6           -13.5       -9.2      -52.8      -50.5       52.2
PRICES
GDP deflator                                     110.4       122.2      143.4      155.3      If 1.5
Exchange rate                                       2.7        2.7        2.7        2.7        2.7
Share of GDP Market Prices (X)         Average Annual Increase (X)
(at constant 1977 prices)             (at constant 1977 prices)
1977       1981                           1977-81
Gross Domestic Product                              100.0      100.0                              3.6
Agriculture                                       28.9        18.1                             -7.9
Mining & Indu3try                                  11.5       13.9                              9.2
Services                                          42.6       45.5                               4.9
Indirect taxes less subsidies                     17.0       22.5
Consumption                                          81.7      115.4                              9.6
Gross Investment                                     36.2       30.1                             -3.0
Exports of GNFS                                      57.7       54.1                             -4.3
Imports of GNFS                                      75.6       99.6                              6.0
As X of GDP
1977      1979        1981
PUBLIC FINANCE (Central Government)
Current revenues                                  35.3        37.7       39.0
Current expenditures                               32.9       34.0      40.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                          2.4        3.7        1.6
Capital expenditure                                10.0       13.2       11.5
Foreign financing                                   2.7        9.8        7.3
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to excluision of
net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Estimate.



- 47 -
ANNEX I
ST. KITTS-NEVIS - ECONOMIC DATA                     Page 25 of 29
Amount                                               Composition of Merchandise
(million US$ at                                           Trade (at current price)
current prices)                                                       1
1981                                                      1977        1981
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports           17.6                    Exports                           100.0       100.0
Sugar c/                    12.0                      Primary                          65.8       73.7
Other                        5.6                      Other                            34.2        26.3
Merchandise imports           50.0                    Imports                           100.0       100.0
Food                        10.6                      Food                             26.0        21.2
Petroleum                    4.6                      Petroleum                         8.7         9.2
Machinery & Equipment       10.7                      Machinery and Equipment          28.3        21.4
Others                      24.1                      Others                           37.0       48.2
Actual
1977      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
(In millions of US dollars at current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                                  16.7       18.9      21.1       26.0       28.0       27.9
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                (15.2)    (15.8)    (16.8)    (20.3)    (17.6)    (16.3)
Imports of GNFS                                  21.9      24.3       31.9       45.0       51.5       54.3
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.                (21.9)    (24.3)    (31.9)    (44.6)    (50.0)    (52.8)
Net factor services and
transfers                                      4.0        4.8        7.6        8.6       10.8       11.4
Current Account Balance                          -1.2      -0.6       -3.2      -10.4      -12.7      -15.0
Private direct investment d/                      1.1      -1.5       -0.6        5.1        8.8        8.9
MLT loans (net) and grants                        0.8        2.3        3.9        5.4       3.8        6.1
Other Capital                                     -         -          -          -          -          -
Change in reserves (increase--)                  -0.7       -0.2      -0.1       -0.1        0.1
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
EXTERNAL CAPITAL & DEBT
(Public & Public Guaranteed)
Gross disbursement                                1.4        2.8       4.5        7.3        4.3
Official grants                                 1.0       2.4        2.0        3.3        2.1
Concessional loans                             0.4        0.4        2.5        4.0        2.2
External Debt Outstanding
and Disbursed                                   5.2       5.1        7.0        9.1       10.8
Debt Service
Total service payments                         0.7        0.7        0.9        2.3        0.8
Interest                                    0.1        0.2        0.3        0.4        0.3
Payments as I exports                           3.4       3.0        3.1        6.7        2.1
c/ Based on volume data.
d/ Includes the financial system and errors and omissions.



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Page 26 of 29
Population ('000):   119 (1981)
GNP per capital:   1,000 (1981)
ST. LUCIA - ECON01MIC DATA
Amount
(million US$ at                            Growth Rate (Z)
-urrent prices)    ------------------------Actual--------------------------
1981           1977        1978       1979       1980        1981       1982c/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/          130.7             9.0       11.3      -6.7        -5.2        0.6         4.0
Agriculture                      18.8            -1.9       21.8         1.6      -13.0       35.2
Mining & Industry                10.3             5.9       13.2        -7.4        4.6        6.3
Services                         82.9             7.4       12.1         6.4       -3.9       -2.4
Consumption                       123.9             4.2         1.1       19.7       -5.4        8.3         3.6
Gross investment                    74.5           22.1        52.7      -14.9       -2.4         6.2        6.6
Exports of GNFS                     77.6           19.2        19.8        3.4        3.1      -12.2         6.0
Imports of GNFS                   145.3            16.8        28.7        0.5        1.3        2.0         6.0
Gross Domestic Savings               6.8           52.9        67.5      -36.7       -6.3      -47.5        10.1
PRICES
GDP deflator (market prices)                      100.0       110.8      121.3      144.6      165.0          -
Exchange rate (EC$/US$)                             2.7         2.7        2.7        2.7        2.7
Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)         Average Annual Increases (%)
(at current prices)b/                (at constant 1977 prices)
1976       1981                            1976-81
Gross domestic product                              100.0       100.0                               4.2
Agriculture b/                                     12.4        14.4                               7.3
Mining & Industry                                    7.8        7.9                               4.3
Services b/                                        65.2        63.5                              3.7
Indirect taxes les subsidies                       14.6       14.3                               4.0
Consumption                                          89.2        94.8                               5.3
Gross investment                                      41.4       57.0                              10.3
Exports GNFS                                          52.2       59.4                               6.0
Imports GNFS                                         82.8       111.2                               9.3
Gross domestic savings                                10.8        5.2                              -4.5
As X of GDP
1977       1979       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenews              (Central Gov't)                             27.3       28.5       24.3
Current expenditures          (Central Gov't)                             25.8       27.8       29.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-) (Central Gov't)                                 1.5        0.7       -5.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-) (Total Public Sector)                           4.7        4.1       -0.3
Capital expenditures          (Total Public Sector)                       11.2       10.2        8.1
Foreign financing             (Total Public Sector)                        5.4        6.9         4.9
a/  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of
net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Projected years at constant prices.
c/  Estimate.



- 49 -
ANNEK I
Page 27 of za
ST. LUCIA - ECONOMIC DATA
Amount                                                           Composition of                 Average Annual
(million US$ at                                                   Merchandise Trade (%)               Increase (%)
current prices)                                                    (at current prices)         (at constant 1977 prices)
1981                                                             1977        1981                   1977-81
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                  40.5                Exports                                     100.0        100.0                    1.2
Banana                             14.9                  Banana                                     41.8        36.8                    -2.4
Other                             25.6                   Manufacture                                19.2        15.7                     2.1
Others                                     39.0        47.5                     4.2
Merchandise imports                 138.1                Imports                                     100.0        100.0
Food                              25.0                   Food                                       22.1        18.1
Petroleum                          13.8                  Petroleum                                   7.9        10.0
Machinery and equipment            32.1                  Machinery and equipment                    17.0        23.2
Others                            67.2                   Others                                     53.0        48.7
PRICES                                                            1977        1978          1979        1980         1981
Export price index                                          100.0        109.6        132.2        161.0       171.2
Import price index                                          100.0        109.9        130.8        159.4       174.5
Terms of trade index                                        100.0         99.7        101.1        101.0        98.1
Acutal                            EST.
1977       1978       1979       1980        1981       1982
(in millions of US dollars at current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                                 40.4       54.5       65.2        85.1       75.4       87.5
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                 (22.6)    (26.8)    (31.8)       (46.0)    (40.4)        (...)
Imports of GNFS                                 62.3       88.1      105.4       130.2      144.3      167.0
Of which: Merchandise c.i.f.                 (59.3)    (82.8)   (101.2)   (123.8)   (138.1)           (..)
Net factor services                              0.4        0.4         0.8       -4.7       -4.6       -5.0
Net transfers                                    7.6        7.7         7.8       11.1       14.9       17.3
Current account balance                          -13.9      -25.5      -31.6       -38.7      -58.6      -67.2
Private direct investmentd/                       13.0       20.6        26.0       30.9       41.6       53.8
MLT loans (net)                                     1.9        2.7        3.0        1.6         2.6        6.3
Other capital                                     -0.9         1.4        1.5        3.3       10.7         7.1
Change in reserves                                -0.1         0.8        1.1        2.9        3.7          -
(increase = -)
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                              4.4        4.7         6.7        7.3        9.9        15.2
Official grants                                2.5        2.0        3.7         5.4        7.0        8.2
Loans                                          1.9        2.7        3.0         1.9        2.9        7.0
Debt outstanding and
disbursed - Official                          6.1        8.0       10.7        13.7       15.3        21.6
Debt service                                     0.3        0.5         0.7        1.4        2.3          2.7
Repayments                                  (   )      (- )       (0.1)      (0.3)       (0.4)       (0.7)
Tnterest                                    (0.3)      (0.5)      (0.6)      (1.1)       (1.9)       (2.0)
Payments as X exports                          0.7        0.9         1.1        2.0        3.1         3.1
d/ Includes Commercial Banks.



-50-                                        ANNEX I
Page 28 of 29
Population(OOO): 110 (1981)
GNP per capita:  US$630 (1981)
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES - ECONOMIC DATA
Amount
(million US$ at                        Growth Rate (%)
current prices)  ------Actual (at constant 1977 prices) -              
1981            1978        1979       1980        1981        1982 c/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/              69.7            12.4         3.1         2.2       11.7         2.3
Agriculture                          10.6            20.3       -18.1      -13.7        52.2         1.2
Industry                             15.6            14.5        12.2         5.9        7.9         4.8
Services                             32.8             9.1         5.8         4.4        5.4         1.5
Consumption                            65.3            -1.0         5.3        -1.9       -3.4        10.6
Gross Investment                       17.9           -13.3         8.2        20.7        15.3        3.9
Exports oE GNFS                        52.0            64.5         8.1         0.3.      13.2        -5.1
Imports of GNFS                        65.4            12.6        11.7         1.5       -3.0         4.3
Gross National Savings                 12.8            192.6      -40.5        40.4        62.1      -31.8
PRICES
GDP deflator (market prices)                        115.7       126.6      136.7       151.7       165.0
Exchange rate (EC$/USS)                               2.7         2.7         2.7        2.7         2.7
Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)                      Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)b/                             (at constant 1977 prices)
1978       1979        1980       1981        1982            1977-79         1979-81
Gross Domestic Product                                100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0                5.0            4.5
Agriculture                                          15.4        12.5        10.9       15.1        14.0              -0.5             9.5
Industry                                             20.1        22.4       23.2        22.4        22.2               8.7             4.5
Consu-pticn                                            97.9       104.7       105.3       93.6       101.1                1.4           -1.8
Gross Investment                                        22.8       24.8        28.6        25.7       24.7               -2.1           11.6
Exports of GNFS                                        64.5        73.0        78.0       74.6        66.8               21.1            4.3
Imports of GNFS                                        85.2       102.4       112.0       93.8        92.6                7.9           -0.5
Gross National Savings                                  22.7       10.9        10.7        18.3        9.4               20.3           31.6
As X of GDP
1978       1980        1981
PUBLIC FINANCE (Central GoverrLment)
Current revenues                                     25.5        29.2        28.1
Current expenditures                                 27.6        30.1        29.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                           -2.1         0.9       -1.6
Capital expenditure                                   7.0        12.7         9.8
Foreign financing                                     4.4        13.3       10.6
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of
net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Projected years at constant prices.
c/ Estimate.



- 51 -
ANNEX I
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES - ECONOMIC DATA                  Page 29 of 29
Amount             Composition of
(million US$ at      Merchandise Trade (%)    Average Annual Increase (Z)
current prices)        (at current prices)        (at constant 1977 prices)
1981
1977       1981      1977-79      1979-81
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                        26.8                100.0       100.0         12.4         3.8
Bananas                                   9.4                 52.3        35.1        -7.0          9.4
Other                                    17.4                47.7        64.9          27.6         1.2
Merchandise imports                        58.3                100.0       100.0          5.4        -0.4
f             Consumer goods                            33.3                63.7        57.1           5.6       -4.0
Intermediate goods                       14.5                21.4        24.9           4.4         5.5
Capital goods                            10.5                 14.9        18.0          6.3         5.3
PRICES
1978       1979          1980       1981        1982a/
Export price index                                           100.0      111.3         125.3       152.0      158.1
Import price index                                          100.0       107.5         130.6      155.4       165.9
Terms of Trade Index                                        100.0       103.5          95.9        97.8       95.3
Actual
1977      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982a/
(in millions of US dollars at current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods & services                      16.6       29.2      37.2       43.9       52.0       51.8
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                (10.7)    (18.1)    (19.0)    (19.9)    (26.8)    (25.9)
Imports of goods & services                      31.8      38.5       52.2       63.0       65.4       71.9
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                (30.3)    (36.2)    (46.3)    (57.2)    (58.3)    (63.8)
Net transfers                                     8.5       9.3        7.9        9.0        8.3        8.3
Current Account Balance                          -6.7         -       -7.1      -10.1       -5.1      -11.9
Private direct investment                         2.9      -1.1       -0.4        1.1       -0.4       -0.6
MLT loans (net) - Public Sector                   5.3        3.9       4.6       11.2        6.2       12.2
Official                                      (3.2)      (3.8)      (6.7)      (9.6)      (8.1)      (8.9)
Private (Banking system)                      (2.1)      (0.1)    (-2.1)       (1.6)    (-1.9)       (3.3)
Other Capital (Error & Omission)                 -1.0      -3.1        2.8        2.1       -0.6        0.3
Change in reserves (-increase)                  -0.5        0.3        0.1       -0.1       -0.1        -
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
EXTERNAL CAPITAL & DEBT
Gross disbursement                                3.6        5.3       8.2         9.4       8.9
Official Grants                                2.6        3.0        4.2        4.8        5.0
Concessional loans (ECCA, IMF)                 -          -          0.3        1.1        1.0
Nonconcessional loans                           1.0       2.3        3.7        3.5        2.9
External Debt
Debt outstanding & disbursedb h                 5.5       7.8       12.6       16.4       17.0
Debt Service                                      1.3        0.5        0.8        1.1       2.2
Repayments                                   1.1        0.3        0.5        0.7        1.5
Interest                                     0.2        0.2        0.3        0.4        0.7
Payment as x export (of goods & nfs)           4.8        0.9        1.2        1.4        2.9
a/ Estimate.
b/ Publicly guaranteed debts only.



- 52
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DOMINICA
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of March 31, 1983
$ Million Amount
SDR    (less cancellation)
Credit
No.     Year    Borrower       Purpose                           IDA    Undisbursed
1221-DOM  1982    Dominica       Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation      4.4       4.75        4.13
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1983
None.
C. Projects in Execution
Credit 1221: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitationn; US$5 Million; Credit of
May 12, 1982; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1982; Closing
Dat,e: December 31, 1986.
The overall project is about six months behind schedule as a result
of delays in consultant selection and protracted negotiations. The intensive
patching program is proceeding, however, on schedule. Following the
consultant's mobilization in September 1982, good progress has been made in
field survey and materials investigations.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS WITH THE
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
A. Statement of Bank and Third Window Loans and IDA Credits as of
March 31, 1983
US$ Million Amount
Loan or                                                  (less cancellations)
Credit   Fiscal
No.     Year    Borrower        Purpose           Bank   TW    IDA  Undisbursed
1233       1976    CDB           Relending           17.0                    1.6
1234-T    1976    CDB            Relending                  3.0              0.0
1775       1980    CDB           Relending          23.0                    11.1
960       1980    CDB           Relending                          7.0      3.4
Total                         40.0   3.0    7,0    16,1
Of which has been repaid    1.4   0.1    0.0
Total now outstanding         38.6   2.9    7.0
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1983
None.
C. Projects in Execution
Loan No. 1233:    Caribbean Development Bank; US$17 Million; Loan of
April 20, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan was fully committed in July 1979. It is financing nine
projects in six countries for development finance companies, transportation,
tourism and industrial estates.
Loan No. 1234-T: Caribbean Development Bank; US$3 Million; Loan of April 26,
1976; Effectiveness Date: June 7, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The loan was fully committed in July 1979. It is financing four
subloans in four LDCs for electricity generation, ports, sugar development
and mortgage finance.



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan No. 1775:    Caribbean Development Bank; US$23 Million; Loan of
January 9, 1980; Effectiveness Date: Febr ary 20, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan has been fully committed for ten projects in seven
countries.  Projects were financed for electric power, mortgage finance,
water supply, road repair, industry and airports.
Credit No. 960:   Caribbean Development Bank; US$7 Million; Credit of
January 9, 1980; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The credit has been fully committed for seven projects in six
countries. They were made to development finance companies, for seaport
reconstruction, water supply, feeder roads and power.



- 55 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Preparation:  Project was prepared during supervision of
the Second Caribbean Development Bank Project.
(b)  Appraisal Mission:  December 1982.
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:  April 1983.
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  August 1983.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Credit funds would be used to finance 80% of subproject costs in
all eligible countries except Antigua and Montserrat where no more
than 40% of subproject costs would be financed. (para 57)
(b)  Other countries declared eligible in the future would be subject to
disbursements at a percentage to be determined by IDA. (para 57)
(c)  At least 60% of credit funds would be used to finance subprojects
in the three poorest countries: Dominica, Grenada and St. Vincent.
(para 57)
(d)  IDA will reimburse CDB for the cost of onlending IDA funds.
(para 58)
(e)  IDA's commitment fee of the portion of the credit allocated to a
subproject would accrue from its authorization by IDA. (para 59)
(f)  Prior approval of IDA would be required for each subloan or
investment. (para 60)
(g)  Borrowed funds for subprojects would be utilized by governments or
passed on as loans or equity. (para 55)
(h)  Credit funds would not be used to cofinance projects receiving Bank
Group funds. (para 55)
(i)  CDB would assign to IDA its rights under subloan contracts.
Subloans will be denominated in SDRs. (para 60)






2 .   ==4 4,0   .= f =   '  = ,='   = .  t t ; ; -,  3    0 '4.  = -   -  =; '=t   == >;  ''= :  ;==   = t|  S RIN A M E .tMlE
GL        =-     =     $;=r0- 
t  X 1214     ~~~EL     -        1     _t=         V,_-t=             4t9'X            ;-            ;                                         I 
|-'   z' g t'    A ,  ,,   o  X _    7 q                    4,,X,  4,n,    t                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~c
0   : f- .; L=i= =_f0j  Ua   
f   ;  _=   cae    =;X  W X,       X       SX       ==   =X   f=       f       ==     -,_  Q
.==     1==                   E       .;t =;0=====ft1                                               -1_J-I                           g
in   i        47E               S     E=                   :      ;====
Pg        ' 7        t     > -fi !i                  ;                     :       < )       ~                   :              ->J
: 21                 Wt  (  ,  f   ; 
g ><,,  - :XtsZ q   /  /  =, ,2:    = =    ,  f              5    S              0  :4,     En 
a ;  S t  ith; % F  iat rt #ASt g?f t0 r0 f o                                           t~~~'cY
90 0 = - $ 2 v 0 e e .= g 01 ff g s t;) < 2 <  S == E <W! 0 f;~155  
C            I          A                    ,- 21               <            



