OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS      REDIT NUMBER 1364 CRG
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between                I                       f
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                              , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1364 CRG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      7A10                           , 1983,
between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK, a regional
development bank established by and operating under an Agreement
entered into at Kingston, Jamaica, in October 1969 by the
Governments of the several States and Territories which were
signatories thereto (such regional bank hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
Generai Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however,. to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions):
(a) Paragraph (b) of Section 4.06 is deleted and replaced
by the following paragraph:
"(b) The principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be paid without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or *in the territory of, the applicable
Government or in the territory where the Borrower is
located."
(b) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
word "Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(c) Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced
by the following paragraph (e):
"(e) (i) Any Eligible Country listed in the Schedule to
the Development Credit Agreement shall have ceased to be
such Eligible Country; or (ii) any borrower under a Sub-loan
(as such term is defined in the Development Credit Agree-
ment) shall have been suspended from membership in, or
ceased to be a member of, the Association or shall have


﻿-2-
ceased to be included in the membership of a member of the
Association; or (iii) any borrower under a Sub-loan or any
country in whose membership any such borrower is included
shall have ceased to be a member of the International
Monetary Fund; provided, however, that any suspension of the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account based on this paragraph shall be limited to that
part of the Credit intended to be used to finance one or
more Sub-loans to such Eligible Country or borrower."
(d) The words "or any Government (as such term is defined
in the Development Credit Agreement) to which a Sub-loan is made"
are added after the word "Borrower" each time it occurs in para-
graph (b) of Section 7.01.
(e) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (b) of Section
2.04 of the Development Credit Agreement no requests
permitted under paragraph (a) of such Section shall have
been received by the Association in respect of any portion
of the Credit or having been so received, shall have been
denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the
Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such requests or to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the
Credit shall be cancelled."
(f) The words "commitment and" are added between the words
"together with the" and the words "service charges thereon" in
the introductory paragraph to Section 7.01.
(g) Section 8.01 is hereby deleted and replaced by the
following Section:
"Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other
charges on, the Credit and/or the Sub-loans (as the term is


﻿-3-
defined in the Development Credit Agreement) shall be paid
without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by,
or in the territory of the applicable Government (as the
term is defined in the Development Credit Agreement) or in
the territory where the Borrower is located.
(b) The Development Credit Agreement, the Assignment
Agreement referred   to  in  Section  2.03(b)(iii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement, and any other agreement to
which these General Conditions shall be made applicable,
shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the applicable Government or where the Borrower is
located, on or in connection with the execution, delivery or
registration thereof."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Approved   Sector" means agriculture, agro-industry,
manufacturing industry, tourism, transportation, public utili-
ties, urban, housing, technical and vocational education and
training, health, and any other economic sector approved by the
Association and the Borrower for the purposes of the Project.
(b) "Eligible Country" means any state or territory listed
in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amend-
ed from time to time by the Association.
(c) "Government" means the government of an Eligible Coun-
try; provided, however, that, for purposes of Sections 4.06(b)
and 8.01 of the General Conditions and, if the context so
requires for purposea of this Agreement, the term includes the
Government of any country that at one point in time was an
Eligible Country.
(d) "Investment Enterprise" means an entity other than a
Government which is responsible for the carrying out of an
Investment Project and ultimate recipient of the proceeds of a
Sub-loan made available by means of an Investment or a Secondary
Loan.
(e) "Investment   Project" means   a  specific  development
project, within an Approved Sector and located in an Eligible


﻿-4-
Country, to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise establish-
ed in such Eligible Country, or by the Government of the Eligible
Country in question, utilizing the proceeds of an Investment ar
Secondary Loan, or of a Sub-loan, respectively.
(f) "Sub-loan" means a loan granted or proposed to be
granted out of the proceeds of the Credit by the Borrower to a
Government for the financing of an Investment Project to be
carried out by such Government or by an Investment Enterprise
and, in the latter case, such financing being provided either
directly through such Government, or indirectly through one or
more financial intermediaries and, in both cases, in the form of
an Investment or a Secondary Loan.
(g) "Investment" means an equity contribution made or
proposed to be made out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan by a
Government to an Investment Enterprise or to a financial inter-
mediary which in turn uses the proceeds of such contribution
exclusively to make a Secondary Loan to an Investment Enterprise.
(h) "Secondary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan directly by a Government
to an Investment Enterprise, or through one or more financial
intermediaries exclusively for the purposes of financing with the
proceeds of such loan a contribution to the equity of, or a loan
to, an Investment Enterprise, provided, however, that in the case
of intermediation of financial entities, regardless of the form
of such intermediation and the nature of the risk attached there-
to, the loan for purposes of this Agreement, shall be deemed,
made to the Investment Enterprise.
(i) "Prior Credit" and "Special Action Credit" mean,
respectively, the credits provided under the Development Credit
Agreement between the Association and the Borrower dated Janu-
ary 9, 1980, and under the Special Action Credit Agreement
between the Association, as Administrator of the Special Account
established with funds contributed by members of the European
Economic Community, and the Borrower, of even date therewith.
(j) "Charter" means the Agreement of October 18, 1969
establishing the Borrower, referred to in the Preamble to this
Agreement, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower


﻿- 5 -
on December 18, 1970, as modified from time to time in compliance
with the provisions of the Agreements referred to in paragraph
(i) above and of this Agreement.
(1) "Policies and Procedures Manual" means the Borrower's
manual of policies and procedures dated September 1977, as modi-
fied from time to time in compliance with the provisions of the
Agreements referred to in paragraph    (i) above and of this
Agreement.
(m) "Foreign currency", for the purposes of any Investment
Project, means any currency other than the currency or currencies
of the Eligible Country or Countries in which such Investment
Project is located.
(n) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. (a) The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to six million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,500,000).
(b) The Credit shall be part of the special funds resources
of the Borrower, as defined in Article 9 (3) of the Charter and,
consequently, shall be funnelled through a special fund, other
than those established by the Borrower for purposes of the Prior
Credit and the Special Action Credit, to be established for the
purpose. Except insofar as this Agreement requires otherwise, the
utilization of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
the Charter prescribing how such special funds resources shall be
utilized.
Section 2.02. For the purpose of carrying out the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to Governments under
Sub-loans which shall be denominated in SDR determined as of the


﻿-6-
respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account, repayable
in amounts equivalent to the value of the currency or currencies
withdrawn from the Credit Account for the purpose expressed in
terms of SDR determined as of the date or dates of repayment,
and extended for repayment periods as close as possible to fifty
years and to ten years in respect of grace periods; provided,
however, that neither the grace period nor the last maturity
under a Sub-loan shall extend beyond a date 15 days earlier then
the first payment date set forth in Section 2.09 or a date 15
days earlier than the last payment date set forth in Section
2.09, respectively. Repayments by each Government shall be in
installments payable semiannually and equivalent to one half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of the principal amount relent under the
Sub-loan in question during the first ten years of the repayment
period and equivalent to one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of
such principal amount thereafter. Each borrowing Government shall
pay to the Borrower a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Sub-loans withdrawn and outstanding from time to time and a
commitment charge on the same terms and conditions of the
commitment charge payable by the Borrower to the Association as
set forth in Section 2.06 of this Agreement on the principal
amount of the Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time. All
payments under Sub-loans shall be made, in the currency specified
in Section 2.10 of this Agreement or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to Section 4.02 of the General Conditions,
semiannually on dates fifteen days before each of the dates set
forth in Section 2.08 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b) and (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account, to finance Sub-loans in
amounts:
(i) equivalent to the amount of the corresponding
Sub-loan, Secondary Loan or Investment, as the
case may be, but without exceeding (i) eighty per
cent (80%) in the case of Eligible Countries other
than Antigua or Montserrat, or (ii) forty per cent
(40%) in the case of either of the latter or (iii)
a percentage to be determined by the Association
in the case of any further state or territory
which may in the future become an Eligible
Country, of the total reasonable cost of goods and


﻿-7-
services required to carry out the Investment
Project  being   financed  under  the   Sub-loan,
Secondary Loan or Investment in question; and/or
(ii) equivalent to those determined by agreement be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, if the
proceeds of the Sub-loan in question shall be used
to finance an Investment Project located in, or of
benefit to, more than one Eligible Country.
.(b) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account.
in respect of a Sub-loan, unless:
(i) the state or territory in which the Investment
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan is located, or where the Investment
Project is located in two or more states or.terri-
tories, then all of such states and territories,
is or are, at the time the Borrower furnishes to
the Association the instrument referred to in
(iii) below, an Eligible Country or Eligible
Countries;
(ii) the Association shall have approved the Sub-loan
on the basis of the information to be provided
pursuant to Section 2.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(iii) the Association shall have received an instrument
in  form   and  substance  satisfactory  to   the
Association, whereby the Borrower assigns its
rights  under  the  Sub-loan  agreement  to   the.
Association subject to and in accordance with the
provisions of the Assignment Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and the
Borrower; and
(iv) the Association shall have received on behalf of
the applicable Government an opinion satisfactory
to the Association showing that the Sub-loan
agreement in question has been duly authorized or
ratified by such Government and is legally binding
upon such Government in accordance with its terms.
(c) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expendi-
tures made by a Government, or by an Investment Enterprise if


﻿-8-
such expenditures shall have been made before the date of this
Agreement or more than one hundred eighty days prior to the date
on which the Association shall have received in respect of the
Sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.04 (a)
of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section, each request by the Borrower for approval of a
Sub-loan shall contain an appraisal of the Investment Project and
the Investment Enterprise or agency of Government responsible
therefor (including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and
conditions of such Sub-loan and of the Secondary Loan or Invest-
ment financed under such Sub-loan (including, in the case of a
Sub-loan or Secondary Loan, the repayment terms therefor).
(b) Except as the Association and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be presented to the Association on or
before June 30, 1985.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue, in
respect of each portion of the Credit allocated to a specific
Sub-loan, from the date on which the Association has notified the
Borrower that it has authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account in respect of such Sub-loan pursuant to Section 2.03(b)
of this Agreement or a date sixty days after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, whichever comes later, to the
respective dates on which all the amounts under such portion of
the Credit shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or shall be cancelled, or any combination thereof.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
applicable Government or in the territory where the Borrower is
located; and (iii) in the currency -pecified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in


﻿-9-
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section,
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.08. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1993, and ending May 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one--half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.10. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.11. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not utilize the proceeds of the Credit
to co-finance projects financed by the proceeds of any other loan
or credit made by the Bank or the Association.
Section 2.12. As compensation for the costs to the Borrower
of carrying out the Project, the Association shall pay to the
Borrower in dollars in respect of each of the five years begin-
ning with 1983 the following respective amounts, the first such
payment to be made not later than September 1, 1983, and subse-
quent payments to be made at twelve months' intervals thereafter:
$192,000, $137,000, $82,000, $82,000 and $54,000.
Section 2.13. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure
that, by the Closing Date, the aggregate amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account to finance Sub-loans made in
respect of Investment Projects located in Dominica, Grenada or
St. Vincent and the Grenadines shall not be lower than the
equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
Section 2.14. Unless the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall
promptly  notify   the  Association   and  shall   repay   to  the
Association on the next following date specified in Section 2.08
the amount withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect of such
Sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the
Association;
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Association to the maturity or maturities of the Credit in
amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity
or maturities of the Sub-loan or part thereof so repaid or
disposed of.
ARTICLE III
The Project Management and
Operation of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Project is the financing by the
Borrower through Governments, of Investment Projects in Approved
Sectors in or of benefit to Eligible Countries and to be carried
out by such Governments with the assistance of Sub-loans, or by
Investment Enterprises with the assistance of Sub-loans under
which Secondary Loans and Investments shall be financed, all in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower and in
conformity with the Charter and Statement of Policy.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel
and in accordance with the procedures described in the Policies
and Procedures Manual.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure through appro-
priate legal means that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any Sub-loan, Secondary Loan or Investment will be made on
terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, pursuant to written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or Government or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and the Borrower, including, in the case of


﻿- 11 -
any Sub-loan and Secondary Loan and to the extent that it shall
be appropriate, in the case of any Investment, the right of the
Borrower or the Government or both, as the case may be, to: (i)
require the Government or the Investment Enterprise, as the case
may be, to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (2) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself. or. jointly
with representatives of the Association if the Association shall
so request, such goods and sites, works, plants and construction.
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and
any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the
Government or Investment Enterprise, as -the case may be, take out
and maintain with responsible insurers or, in the case of a
Government, make other provision satisfactory to the Borrower
for, such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business or administrative prac-
tice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Government or Investment Enterprise, as the case may be, to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Association, the Borrower or the Government shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise
and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project
carried out by the Government or Investment Enterprise; and (vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under the contract or agreement providing
for such Sub-loan, Secondary Loan or Investment.
(b) The Borrower  Lall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Association and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the


﻿- 12 -
purposes of the Project. To that end, the Borrower shall not
amend, abrogate or waive any term or condition applying to the
payment of principal of, and service charge or other charges on,
the Sub-loan or to the payment of principal of, and interest or
other charges on, the Secondary Loan, all without the Associa-
tion's concurrence.
Section 3.03. It shall be a condition in all contracts or
agreements for Sub-loans that the Government agree that the
rights of the Borrower under such contracts or agreements shall
be assigned by the Borrower to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the
Investment Projects, the Sub-loans, Secondary Loans and Invest-
ments and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the
foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obli-
gations under agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower for relending,
investment or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the
Association of any action which would have the affect of assign-
ing, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts and records adequate to monitor and
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and


﻿- 13.-
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
the Borrower and of the Special Fund to be established pursuant
to Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account. on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, or cause to be retained, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents), evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and financial state-
ments (balance sheet statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association, as, soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of.each such year,.(A) certi-
fied copies of its aforesaid accounts and financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) a certified copy of the
report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for. the purpose
for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning said. accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonebly request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Association, would materi-
ally affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obliga-
tions.


﻿- 14 -
Section   4.03.   The  Borrower   shall   take   such   steps
satisfactory to the Association as shall be necessary to protect
itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates
of exchange between the currencies used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 4.04. The Association and the Borrower shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the administration,
operatiol, and financial condition of the Borrower and any
subsidiary, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning   such   administration,   operations   and   financial
condition.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter, Statement
of Policy or Policies and Procedures Manual which would material-
ly and adversely affect the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower or of the fund to be established
pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) (i) the Bank or the Association shall have suspended in
whole or in part the right of any Government to make withdrawals
under any loan or guarantee agreement between such Government and


﻿- 15 -
the Bank or under any development credit agreement between such
Government  and   the  Association, respectively, or     (ii)  the
Borrower shall have suspend,ed Ji whole or in part the right of
any Government to make withdrawals under any loan agreement
between such Government and the Borrower; provided, however, that
any suspension of the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account based on this paragraph shall be limited
to that part of the Credit intended to be used to finance one or
more Sub-loans to the Government or Governments in question; and
(e), a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been creat-
ed or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gener-
al Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion consisting of paying monies on the part of any Government
under any loan agreement in respect of a Sub-loan.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date of         4                 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 4.02 through 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Caribbean Development Bank
P.O.Box 408
Wildey
St. Michael
Barbados, W.I.
Cable address:                      Telex:
CARIBANK                           WB 2287
Barbados
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE
Eligible Countries
Dominica
Grenada
Montserrat
St. Kitts-Nevis
Saint Lucia
St. Vincent and the Grenadines


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of         ,
198 3
FOR SECRETARY


