Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
Repor No. 6016
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES - FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAr 1399-PH)
December 31, 1985
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
I  This document h_ a reitd  dIuIruilom ad my be _ad by recipents ony in he perfenmee of
their oc  dudu. lb cbnb may m  odbrwbe be dlclad withu Word Bak autborinfton.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMDAC     -     Agricultural Manufacturers'/Distributors'
Accreditation Committee
AMTEC     -     Agricultural Machinery Testing and Evaluation
Center
CB        -     Central Bank of the Philippines
DRBSLA    -     Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan
Associations
ERR       -     Economic Rate of Return
FRR       -     Financial Rate of Return
MAU       -     Management Advisory Unit
NBFI      -     Nonbank Financial Intermediary
PCR       -     Project Completion Report
PDB       -     Private Development Bank
RB        -     Rural Bank
SAR       -     Staff Appraisal Report
SSLA      -     Stock Savings and Loan Association
TSEU      -     Technical Support and Evaluation Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES - FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1399-PH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   *9****O  *     ..9, *** ********** 0**** 900009900000090090   i
Basic Data Sheet .................... ;......................          ii
Evaluation Summary                                                    iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT OVERVIEW
A.  Project Implementation and Impact ....I1
B.  Implementation Issues'and Lessons Learnt ...........            5
Institutional Issues                                        5
Issue of Project Beneficiaries                              9
Other Appraisal Design Issues                              10
Annex 1 - Comments Received from the National Economic
and Development Authority                                    13
Annex 2 - Comments Received from the Central Bank of
the Philippines . .... ..........................            15
Annex 3 - Comments Received from the Ministry of Finance *..           17
Map - IBRD 19386
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan-ce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES - FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1399-PH)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the
Fourth Rural Credit Project in the Philippines for which Loan 1399-PH in the
amount of US$36.5 million was approved on April 5, 1977. The final disburse-
ment of the loan was on April 17, 1984 with a small balance of US$3,462.17
cancelled.
The completion report was prepared by the Central Bank of the
Philippines (CB), the implementing agency for the project. An Overview, pre-
pared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, is based on the CB
report, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) (No. 1415-PH, dated March 7, 1977),
President's Report (No. P-2021-PH dated March 24, 1977), Loan Agreement dated
April 11, 1977, and Bank supervision mission reports.  The Project Perform-
ance Audit Report (OED Report No. 2784i dated December 27, 1979) on the pre-
ceding project - Philippines, Third Rural Credit Project (Loan 1010-PH), SAR
of the follow-on project - Philippines , Agricultural Credit Project (Report
No. 5514-PH, dated May 10, 1985) and  orld Bank report - Philippines, Agri-
cultural Credit Sector Review (Report No. 4117-PH, dated May 12, 1983) were
also consulted.  The completion report prepared by the Central Bank of the
Philippines is not included in this rei ort, but is available in OED files.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on October 22,
1985.  Comments received from the National Economic and Development Author-
ity, the Central Bank of the Philippines and the Ministry of Finance are in
Annexes 1, 2 and 3, respectively.
The East Asia and Pacific Regional Office expresses its apprecia-
tion to the Central Bank of the Philippines and project staff for preparing a
comprehensive and analytical PCR.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



PROJECr COFPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES - FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1399-PH)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual or                 Actual as 2
Appraisal           Estimated                 of Appraisal
Estimate            Actual                      Estimate
Project Costs (USS million)                91.3                 81.0                        89
Loan Amount (US5  illtion)                 36.5                 36.5/a                     100
Date of Board Approval                      -                04/05/77
Loan Agreement Date                         -                04/11/77
Date of Project Effectiveness               -                06/02/77
Date Physical Components Completed          09/80                12/83                     195/b
Proportion Then Completed (2)           100                  100
Loan Closing Date                        12/31/80             12/31/83                     182/b
Economic Rate of Return (S)                21                   30                         143
Financial Rate of Return (X)/c  from 8 to over 100  from less than I to 58                  52
Institutional Performanee                   -         Below appratsal expectation            -
Number of Direct Beneficiaries          15,940                  6,521                       41
CUWILATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY78   FY79   FY80   FYF1l   FY82   FY83   FY84
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)           11.3   22.9   34.9   36.5        -       -      -
Actual (USS million)                        2.4   11.9   15.4   2(.3   25.0   31.6   36.5
Actual as 2 of Appraisal Estimate           21      52     44      .6    68       87    100
Date of Final Disbursement                 April 17, 1984
MISSION DATA
Date    No. of   mandays       Specializations  Performance               Types of
Mission         (mo./yr)  Persons  in Field    Represented /d   Rating /e    Trend/f   Problems/g
Identification/
Preparation          11/75 /h   2           5/i      Not available
Appraisal            05/76       7        1207?      Not availabls
Subtotal                    f        125
Supervision  1       09i77       3         30/i      Not availabl,         2            2           F
Supervision  2       06/7';      1         14              d               2            2         F,O
Supervision  3       11/78       1         21              d               2            2         F,O
Supervision  4       06/79       3         30/i        d,a,b               2            2         P,O
Supervision  5       02/80       2         10            c,a               2            2         F,O
Supervision  6       10/SO       2         10            c,d               2            2         F,O
Supervision  7       06/81       1         10              d               2            2         F,O
Supervision  8       03/82       i          2              d               2            2         F,O
Supervision  9       11/82       1         10              d              2             1         F,O
Supervision It)      05/83       1          2              d               2            1         F,O
Supervision 11       01/84       1          3              d               2            1         F,O
Subtotal                   17        142
Total                      26       Y7
OTNER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                            Central Bank of Philippines
Executing Agency                    Central Bank of Philippines
Fiscal Year of Borrower             January to December
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)   Peso (P)
Currency Exchange Rate
Apprastal Year Average (1977)  US$1.00 - P 7.353
Intervening Years Average        US$1.00 - P 7.827
Completion Year Average (1983) US51.00 - P11.864
Follow-on Project
Name                           Agricultural Credit Project
loan Xnmber                    2570-PH
Loan Amount (USS m.n)          100.0
Date Board Approval            06/06/85
/a   An am-int of US$3,462.17 was cancelled.
/b   Calculation in terms of months from date of Board approval.
7?   From individual subprojects.
7i   a - agriculturist; b -  agricultural economist; c - financial analyst; d   agricultural credit
specealist,
/e   I - problem-free or minor problems; 2 a moderate problems; and 3 = sajor problems.
7?   1 - improving; 2 - stationary; and 3 - deteriorating.
T7(  F - financtal; 0 - other.
7    The November 1975 mission for Third Rural Credit Project (Loan 1010-PH) helped Initiate
preparation by the Central Bank.
/If Rc timated.



- iii -
PFWJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES - FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1399-PH)
EVAIUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The project was the fourth loan since 1965 through which the World
Bank provided support to the medium- and long-term credit program adminis-
tered by the Central Bank of the Philippines (CB). Project funds were to be
onlent by qualified rural banks (RBs) and stock savik.gs and loan associations
(SSLAs). In view of t,-' disappointing progress in lending to smaller farmers
under the preceding three credit projects, the Government was to use its best
efforts to allocate about 31% of total subloan proceeds to small benefici-
aries.
Objectives
Credit was to be provided for investments in farm mechanization,
light transportation, cottage and agro-industries, coastal and inland fish-
eries and smalI-scale livestock development.   The project also included
funds for a farm mechanization study; an Agricultural Machinery Testing,
Evaluation and Standardization Project; training for CB and RB staff; and
service vehicles for CB field staff.  The project was to be implemented from
June 1977 to December 1980. Total project cost was estimated at P 684.4 mil-
lion (US$91.3 million).  A minimum contribution of 10% was required of RBs
and SSIAs. The minimum subborrower's contribution was to be 10%.
Implementation Experience
Loan disbursement under the project was very slow. By the end of
1980, the original loan closing date, loan disbursement was only about 46% of
the appraisal estimate.   The final disbursement under the loan was made on
April 17, 1984. There was thus a delay of over three years in project imple-
mentation.  The major factors responsible for this delay were:  (a) reluct-
ance of RBs to participate in the project due to the experience encountered
in previous credit projects under which there had been high arrears (mainly
on tractor loans), ineligibility of many RBs due to these high arrearages,
lack of technical capability of many RBs for term lending, and risk of longer
exposure in term financing as compared to that in short-term credit obtained
by RBs from special time deposits and rediscounting facilities of the CB; (b)
reduced demand for subloans due to increases in subproject investment and
operational costs precipitated by the oil price increase; and (c) decline in
world sugar prices which adversely affected the demand for tractor subloans.



- iv -
The extremely slow progress of the project necessitated changes in
project scope and design. The major among these changes were the following:
(a) inclusion of private development banks and non-bank financial intermed-
iaries in addition to RBs and SSLAs as conduits for lending; (b) increase of
individual subloan limit first to P 500,000 and finall, to P 1 million; (c)
reduction of the borrowers' equity requirement from 10% to 5% of the total
project cost for small beneficiaries who were unable to put up the required
10%; and (d) inclusion of machinery and equipment for some crops and facili-
ties which were not eligible at appraisal.
The total project cost at completion was P 690.3 million or only 1%
higher than the appraisal estimate in peso terms but 11% lower in dollar
terms owing to peso devaluation in the intervening years.
Results
The subloan portfolio at completion was considerably different from
that specified at appraisal and reflected the impact of changing market
forces which could not be anticipated at appraisal.   The assumed allocation
of loan funds at appraisal, the basis of which is not entirely clear, turned
out to be restrictive during implementation. About 6,500 subloans were made
compared to 16,000 expected at appraisal.   While the share of tractor and
tiller subloans declined drastically (from 46% and 12% at appraisal to 16%
and 6%. respectively, at completion), that of rice mills increased remarkably
(from 1% to 15%), followed by fishponds (from 16% to 27%), poultry (from 4%
to 12%) and piggery (from 4% to 8%).
The institutional performance of the project was much below
appraisal expectations.   As of end-1983,  the arrear on subloan repayment
under the project was 51%.  The arrears of RBs were the highest at 55%.  The
arrears on farm mechanization and cottage industries subloans were the high-
est at 63% and 56%, respectively.  Though the project suffered from imple-
mentation delays and had a disappointing institutional performance, it can be
described as an overall success in terms of its economic impact.
The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) at completion is
about 30%, compared to 21% at appraisal. The main reason for the higher ERR
at completion is that rice mills, other cottage and agro-industries, fishing
boats and fishponds which account for about 80% of benefits, have high rates
of return ranging from 27% to 58%, whereas, at appraisal, tractors and till-
ers, which accounted for about 50% of benefits, had low rates of return rang-
ing from 8% to 17%.  Except for 4-wheel tractors, light trucks and piggery,
for which the re-estimated financial rates of return (FRR) at project comple-
tion are below 6%, subprojects financed by the project have FRRs above 21%.
Sustainability
Agricultural investments financed under the project responded to
market forces and the outlook, to the extent that these forces continue to be
favorable, is positive.   The Agricultural Machinery Testing and Evaluation



-v -
Center is expected to provide a useful service for the foreseeable future.
The less successful institutional aspects affecting the rural financial
system are addressed in the follow-on project, approval of which was suffi-
ciently delayed to incorporate lessons from this project.
Findings and Lessons
The main lessons learned from project implementation relate to
institutional issues and low realization of benefits by small beneficiaries
as defined at appraisal.  Of the 732 licensed and active RBs by the end of
1975, only 100 were expected at appraisal to participate in the project dur-
ing the first 6 months as a result of the enforcement of arrears criteria of
the project,  Participation was expected to increase gradually as more RBs
reduced arrears to acceptable  Levels.   However, by end-1980, out of over
1,000 RBs and SSLAs then in operation, only 340 had been accredited by the CB
for participation in the project; of the 340, only 127 were actually involved
in project lending and of those only 35 could be termed active. The institu-
tional base of the project remained depleted in the initial years of imple-
mentation and this had an adverse impact on the subloans' disbursement rate.
The decentralization objective of the project also met with limited success.
Of the 325 financial institutions that participated in the project at various
times, only 26 were granted partial authority (to process and evaluate sub-
loan applications) and two granted full authority by the CB to approve sub-
loans by project completion.   However,  the project largely achieved its
objective of improving the CB's institutional capability in rural credit ope-
rations (Overview, para. 18 (iii)).
Several factors accounted for the institutional problems of the
project. First, there was insufficient understanding of RB arrearage prob-
lems at appraisal.  The RB arrearages resulted not only from the term loans
(particularly tractor loans) under Bank-supported projects, but also from
short-term, Government-sponsored, supervised credit programs which often had
relaxed subloan collection criteria. The problem was not viewed in relation
to the totality of RB operations at appraisal and no concrete plan of action
for reducing arrears drawn up.  Second, short-term production loans consti-
tuted about 90% of RB portfolio. The highest priority of the RBs was, there-
fore, short-term credit.  The project, which, like the earlier three credit
projects, concentrated on medium- and long-term credit, was an inappropriate
vehicle to upgrade the capabilities of RBs and, in turn, suffered owing to
this inability. Third, the exclusion of financial intermediaries other than
RBs and SSLAs at appraisal narrowed the institutional base of the project.
Fourth, and perhaps most important, the institutional objectives of the proj-
ect were tied to implementation of the project itself.   The project's non-
intervention in the larger policy and institutional framework militated
against the achievement of its limited institutional objectives. Until 1980,
RBs were restricted to unit banking and to small farmers cultivating not more
than 50 ha, small merchants and cooperatives.  Moreover, easy access to the
CB's low-cost rediscounting facility discouraged retail banks from mobilizing
deposits and the policy of regulated interest spreads offered insufficient



-vi-
incentives to many banks which could not provide for their transaction costs,
risks of term lending and reasonable profit.  This policy and institutional
framework inhibited efficient financial intermediation and adversely affected
project implementation (Overview, paras. 18-19).
Related to the institutional issue was the project's limited suc-
cess in reaching small beneficiaries.   Only 6% of total subloans went to
small beneficiaries compared to 31% expected at appraisal.   The appraisal
expectations turned out to be over-optimistic owing to the restrictive defi-
nition of small beneficiaries, the existing land tz-,ure system leading to
collateral  problems, and  increasing  investment  cests of machinery.   As
Borrower comments (Annex 1) emphasize, the majority of small farmers remain
outside the formal credit system, The complexities involved in using commer-
cially-oriented credit institutions as conduits for expanding the supply of
credit to poverty target groups were underestimated at appraisal.   These
require a much more careful analysis than was done at appraisal (Overview,
paras. 21-23).
Other findings are that the project's specific commodity and sub-
sectoral allocations, low subloan limit and the limitation on financing of
tractors in excess of 68 HP turned out to be unduly restrictive and had to be
relaxed (Overview, para. 24).   Finally, the Agricultural Machinery Testing
and Evaluation Center established under the project to set quality standards
has made a useful contribution (Overview, para. 10).



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1399-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Overview
1.        This overview is primarily based on the PCR for the Fourth Rural
Credit Project (Loan 1399-PH) prepared by the CB, the implementin? agency for
the project, and presented to the Bank in April 1985. The PCR presents a
detailed and analytical review of the project's performance and impact and the
Region has no major disagreement with the fi-idings and conclusions of the
PCR. This overview is divided into tWO sections: section A, which is based
on the PCR, summarizes the important aspects of project implementation and
impact; and section B, which utilizes information from documents (listed in
the Preface) other than the PCR, complements and elaborates some ports of the
PCR relating to implementation issues and lessons learned.
A.  Project Implementation and Impact
2.        Project Objectives and Components.  The Project was the fourth loan
since 1965 through which the Bank provided support to the medium and long-term
credit program administered by the CB. Project funds were to be onlent by
qualified rural banks (REs) and stock savings and loans associations (SSLAS)
to about 16,000 farmers and rural entrepreneurs for investment in farm mechan-
ization, light transportation, cottage and agroindustries, coastal and inland
fisheries and small-scale livestock development. The major subloan items to
be financed by the project were: tractors (46%), pover tillers (12%), fish-
ponds (16%) and cottage and agroindustries (7%). The project also included
funds for: (a) a study to assess the impact of farm mechanization in the
Philippines; (b) an Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and
Standardization Project to standardize the quality of farm machinery; (c) a
training program to improve the lending capability of CB and RB staff; and
(d) service vehicles for CB field staff engaged in the project.
3.        The Government was to use its best efforts to ensure that a mininum
share of project proceeds (US$11 million equivalent which was about 31% of
total subloan proceeds and about 57% of proceeds allocated to subprojects
other than tractors) was used to finance subprojects of small beneficiaries
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). One of the definitions of small beneficiaries
given was total self-earned income per year of less than P 7,500.
4.        Project Cost and Financing.  The project was to be implemented over
a 3-1/2 year period from June 1977 to December 1980. Total project cost was
escimated at P 684.4 million (US$91.3 million) with a 32% foreign exchange
component. IERD and CB/Government were to contribute 40% each of project
costs. A minimum contribution of 10% was required of RBs and SSLAs except in
the case of recently established RBs with net worth less than P 500,000, in
which case the minimum contribution was to be 5%. The minimum subborrower's
contribution was to be 10%.



S.        Project Implementation.  Loan disbursement under the project was
very S9T1   By the end of 1980, the original loan closing date, Loan disburse-
ment was onty about 46% of the appraised estimate. The loan closing date was
extended first by two years to December 1982 and then to December 31, 1983
(fiiial disbursement was made on April 17, 1984). There was thus a delay of
over three years in project implementation. The PCR identified the institu-
tional and eLonomic factors responsible for this delay as follows: (a)
reluctance of RBs to participate in the project due to the experience
encountered in previous credit projects which had led to high arrears,
ineligibility of many RBs due to these high arrearages, Lack of technical
capability of new RBs for term lending, and risk of longer exposure in term
financing as compared to that in short-term credit obtained by RBs from
special time deposits and rediscounting facilities of the CB; (b) reduced
demand for subloans due to increase in subproject investment and operational
costs precipitated by the oil price increase; and (c) decline in world sugar
price which adversely affected the demand for tractor subloans. The institu-
tional issue relating to the RBs is discussed in greater detail in section B.
6.        Changes in Project Scope and Design.  The extremely slow progress of
the project in the initial years necessitated changes in project scope and
design. The major among these changes, whici helped accelerate project imple-
mentation, were the following: (a) inclusion of private development banks
(PDBs) and nonbank financial intermediaries (NBFIs) in addition to RBs and
SSLAs as conduits for lending; (b) increase of individual subloan limit first
to P 500,000 and finally to P 1 million; (c) reduction of the equity
requirement from 10% to 5% of the total project cost for small beneficiaries
who were unable to put up the required 10%; (d) inclusion of machinery and
equipment for the development of abaca, coffee, cocoa, citrus and ipil-ipil
and processing and marketing facilities as eligible projects for financing
under the loan; and (e) increase in the horsepower limit for tractors to a
maximum of 90 HP (compared to 68 HP at appraisal) in areas where sugarcane was
grown extensively and cultivated throughout the year. Significant realloca-
tior. of loan funds among differeat categories was made as a result of changed
demand for subloans (see para. 8).
7.        Status of the Project at Completion.  The total project cost at com-
pletion was P 690.3 million (US$81.0 m equivalent) or only 1% higher than the
appraisal estimate in peso terms but 11% lower in dollar terms owing to peso
devaluation in the intervening years. Despite the implementation delay (para.
5), the project was an overall success. The re-estimated ERR is satisfactory
(para. 15). At full development, the project is estimated to generate 9,644
jobs on a full time basis, which is only about 6% lower than the appraisal
estimate. However, the institutional performance of the project was much
below appraisal expectations (further discussion in section B). As of end
1983, the arrears of RBs were the highest at 55%, followed by NBFIs at 39%,
SSLAs at 32% and PDBs at 26%. The arrears on farm mechanization and cottage
industties subloans were the highest at 63% and 56% respectively. The inci-
dence of calamities such as typhoon, floods and drought and low profitability,
particularly of tractor investments, were the major reasons for these
arrears, In addition to the institutional problems, the project also failed
to achieve the appraisal target for small beneficiaries (further discussion in
section B). The status of individual components of the project at completion
is br-efly discussed below.



-3-
8.        Subloans.  The subtoan portfolio at completion (Table 1) was
considerably different from that specified at appraisal and reflected the
impact of changing market forces which could not be anticipated at
appraisal, About 6,500 subloans were made compared to 16,000 expected at
appraisal. While the demand for tractor and tiller subloans declined drastic-
ally, that for rice mills increased remarkably, followed by significant
increases in demand for fishponds, poultry and piggery.
Table 1: PROJECT SUBLOAN PORTFOLIO AT APPRAISAL AND COMPLETION
Appraisal            Completion
Category                           Amount      X        Amount       %
(P mln)              (P mln)
4-Wheel tractor                      308      46           112      16
Power tiller                          80      12            41       6
Fishpond                             106      16           182      27
Poultry                               27       4            79      12
Piggery                               30       4            52       8
Rice mill                              8       1           103      15
Others                               115      17           112      16
Total                              674    100            681     100
9.        Farm Mechanization Study.  As envisaged at appraisal, the main
objective of the study was to provide a basis for long-term Government policy
on mechanized farming. The study, conducted in JQRO, provided many useful
recommendations, many of which were implemented. However, it recognized the
need for further studies of the economic impact of mechanization on the
farmers and the industry as a whole to help the evolution of long-term
Government policy on farm mechanization. Though further studies have not been
carried out, the follow-on Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2570-PH) provides
for review, on a continuing basis of both the implementation and impact of the
farm mechanization program supported by the project.
10.       Agricultural Machinery Testing.  As envisaged at appraisal, an
Agricultural Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center (AMTEC) was established
to set quality standards for agricultural machinery and to conduct performance
testing against such standards. As of December 1983, 49 machines had been
tested and 25 draft standards formulated. The Project also established an
Agricultural Manufacturers'/Distributors' Accreditation Committee (AMDAC) for
accreditation of machinery suppliers and setting of price guidelines for farm
machinery to be financed under the project.
11.       Training.  Training programs emphasized rural credit, project
feasibility study preparation, project evaluation and monitoring and the
mechanics of implementation of the Fourth Rural Credit Project (Loan 1399-



-4-
PH). A total of 1,918 personnel from the CB and RBs and SSLAs were trained
under the project. In addition, 34 officers and staff of the CB were sent for
further training abroad.  As expected at appraisal, a Credit 1andbook was also
prepared for the field staff of the CB and on-lending banks.-
12.       Logistical Support.  As expected at appraisal, 60 service vehicles
were purchased for the CB field staff.
13.       Financial Viability.  The rates of return for major subproject cate-
gories at completion compared to those at appraisal (in parentheses) are as
follows: 4-wheel tractors for sugarcane, about 6% (17%); 4-wheel tractors for
rice farms, less than 1% (13%); power tiller, 32% (8Z); fishponds, 38% (31Z);
poultry (broiler), 31% (more than 100%); poultry (layer), 48% (more than
100%); piggery, less than 1% (36); rice mills (100 cavan capacity), 37% (73%);
and rice mills (300 cavan capacity), 58% (more than 100%). The variance
between appraisal and completion rates of return is due to differential
increases in costs of investment and operation on the one hand and revenues on
the other for different subproject categories. However, except for 4-wheel
tractors, light trucks and piggery, subprojects are estimated to be finan-
cially viable.
14.       Management and Bank Performance.  The project was implemented by the
Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations (DRBSLA) of the CB
until May 1983. Effective May 1983, the DRBSLA was reorganized and split into
two departments, one for rural banks and the other for thrift banks. Project
management performed its work efficiently and in consultation with Bank super-
vision missions, which took an active part in changing project scope and
design (para. 6), implemented remedial actions to accelerate project subloan
disbursements. From commencement of the Project in mid-1977 to its completion
in end 1983, there were 11 Bank supervision missions or approximately 2 mis-
sions per year. The frequency was appropriate; however, sometimes the
interval between missions was 9 months which could have been reduced. It was
helpful to have agricultural credit specialists on all supervision missions
except one; however, the skill mix could have been improved further with other
specialists, particularly economists, participating in some missions, with
conceivable beneficial impact on project implementation. As indicated in the
PCR, the supervision missions provided the necessary guidance to Project staff
and performed effectively.
15.       Economic Impact.  The PCR recalculates the economic rate of return
(ERR) at completion in 1984 at about 30% compared to the appraisal estimate of
21%. However, some points relating to the recalculation need to be mention-
ed: (i) Unlike appraisal where costs and benefits were phased, the PCR cost
and benefit streams are not based on actual costs and benefits as they occur-
red in each year since project commencement in 1977; they are based merely on
a reappraisal of the entire loan portfolio in 1984 prices. (ii) Unlike
appraisal where both costs and benefits started from year one, the PCR more
1I/ NEDA points out that no evaluation has yet been made of training provided
in connection with previous Bank assistance (Annex 1).



appropriately assumes a one-year lag of benefits after investment.
(iii) Shadow pricing of inputs and outputs was not done either at appraisal or
in the PCR and only investment costs were adjusted for   ties and taxes.
(iv) Some of the costs and benefits presented ir. Annex   of the PCR could not
be traced back to Annexes 2 and 3. (v) The incremental production of eggs,
poultry meat (broiler) and pork per subproject is significantly higher in the
PCR (Annex 3) compared to that at appraisal. The reason for this is not clear
in the PCR text. Adjustments for proper phasing, shadow pricing (particularly
for the value of benefit from rice) and lower (than that shown in the PCR)
incremental production of eggs, poultry meat and pork will reduce the ERR from
the 302 recalculated in the PCR. However, owing to the absence of supporting
data in the PCR, only a sensitivity analysis could be done by the Region.
Merely phasing costs and benefits, consistent with the appraisal methodology,
results in an ERR of about 31%. This is about the same ERR as calculated in
the PCR. The main reason for the higher ERR at completion is that rice mills,
other cottage and agro-industries, fishing boats and fishponds which account
for about 80% of benefits have high rates of return ranging from 27% to 58%
whereas at appraisal tractors and tillers which accounted for about 50% of
benefits had low rates of return ranging from 8% to 17%. A sensitivity
analysis done by the Region with phasing of costs and benefits and shadow
pricing only the value of benefit from rice (with an economic farmgate price
of paddy of about P 1,300/ton for 1979-83 and P 2,250/ton from 1984 onwards)
showed that a minimum ERR of about 17% could be expected compared to the esti-
mated opportunity cost of capital of 12% in the Philippines. The project,
therefore, remains economically viable.
B. Implementation Issues and Lessons Learnt
16.       The main project implementation issues were the delay of almost
three years and limited success in reaching small beneficiaries as defined at
appraisal (para 3). Though the slump in international sugar prices and the
cons'quent de,line in demand for tractors from sugar cane producers was a
major factor in slow loan disbursements, there were significant institutional
problems and deficiences of appraisal design that contributed to implemen-
tation delays and low realization of benefits by designated small benefi-
ciaries. These issues are discussed in greater detail below.
Institutional Issues
17.       At appraisal 90% of subloans were expected to be disbursed by RBs
and the rest 10% by SSLAs. However, the institutional problems of RBs and
their high arrearages were well known at appraisal. The arrears criteria for
participation of financial institutions in the project were a maximum of 25%
of total loan portfolio and a maximum of 30% on term loans, the Latter percen-
tage to decline to 20% by July 1, 1978. Of the 732 licensed and active RBs by
the end of 1975, only 100 were expected at appraisal to participate in the
project during the first six months as a result of the enforcement of arrears
criteria. Participation was expected to increase gradually as more RBs
reduced arrears to acceptable levels. The initial number of 100 RBs con-
trasted significantly with that of 245 RBs which participated in the Third
Rural Credit Project (Ln 1010-PH) for a total subloan amount of only P252 mil-
lion compared to P542 million projected for the Fourth Rural Credit Project.



-6 -
This significant discrepancy between numbers of RBs and loan amounts as
between rTird and Fourth Rural Credit Projects was not analysed, evidently on
the expectation that the number of eligible RBs will grow. The design of the
project was apparently influenced by the good experience under the Third Rural
Credit Project (Loan 1010-PH) under which project funds had been committed
18 months ahead of schedule. However, the deteriorating finar:ial and
economic situation in the country brought to light the institutional weak-
nesses of the project. By end 1980, when the project was expected to be
completed, the number of eligible RBs and SSLAs grew to 340 out of over
1,000 then in operation. However, as documented in the supervision report of
August 1981, some 90 RBs, though accredited by the CB, did not participate in
project lending for reasons such as lack of technical staff, preferences for
more remunerative short-term investments, unhappy collection experience under
past subloans and CB rediscounting procedures perceived as cumbersome by most
banks. Some 129 eligible banks dropped out of the program during the course
of project implementation on account of high arrearages under short and medium
term loans. As of mid 1981, out of 340 accredited RBs amd SSLAs, only 127
were involved in project lending and only 35 were sufficiently active while 92
were approving, on average, less than one subloan per month. More than 50Z of
423 banks, which obtained CB loans in the past under the Bank-supported
projects, were in arrears with CB and, therefore, did not qualify for further
CB refinancing. The institutional base of the project remained depleted in
the initial years of project implementation and this had an adverse impact on
the subloan disbursement rate. Important modifications in project design had
to be made (para 6) to remedy this situation.
18.       Several points relating to the institutional issue which, in
retrospect, could have been better taken care of at appraisal and possibly led
to faster project implementation, emerge:
'i) Understanding of the arrearage problem. As of April 30, 1976,
arrears avw%unted to 24.6% of total outstanding loans to subborrowers
under the Bank-supported First, Second and Third Rural Credit
Projects. The major category of arrears was tractor loans,
accounting for 67% by amount. The RBs had high arrears on short-
term credit as well, particularly on account of Government-sponsored
supervised credit programs (see further para 19(c)) under which
arrears in 1975 were about 38% compared to 18% on non-supervised
credit operations. The arrearage nroblem, as it related to the
totality of operations of RBs, was not clearly understood at
appraisal.  Under the Project, the Government was required to
undertake a detailed study of the causes of arrears in RB and SSLA
portfolio by December 31, L977 and prepare a plan of action for the
reduction of these arrears. The study was completed in November
1978, a year behind schedule, and the plan of action drawn up in
early 1979. The study's findings and the plan of action helped
implementation of changes in the Project (para. 6). Despite insuf-
ficient understanding of the arrearage problem, particularly
relating to tractor loans, and lack of any concrete plan of action
at appraisal to rehabilitate RBs, the allocation for tractor
subloans in the project was still 46% of the total subloans and
reliance was placed on RBs (90% of subloans). The arrears problem



continued well past the original project completion date and
resulted in several RB8 becoming disqualified for project lending
(para 17). This not only slowed down the subloan disbursements
under this component (at project completion, subloans for tractors
were only 36% of appraisal estimates) but also adversely affected
the lending for other subsectors supported by the project. Given
lack of adequate knowledge of the arrear problem at appraisal,
several alternatives could have been adopted: (a) a detailed study
of the arrear problem before appraisal and adjustment of project
scope and design according to the study's findings; (b) a much lower
allocation for tractor subloans; (c) allocation to specific
subsectors and items to be taken only as indicative and letting
market demand determine the loan portfolio as eventually happened
(see para 8); and (d) allowing participation of other financial
intermediaries in addition to RBs and SSLAs which also eventually
happened (see further below).
(ii) Participation of Financial Intermediaries. At appraisal, the role
of commercial banks, which were the most important private institu-
tions providing some 55Z of all institutional agricultural credit,
and private development banks (PDBs), which lent about a third of
their funds to agriculture, was noted. However, it is not c'ear
why, given the problems of RBs which were known, participation of
other financial intermediaries, particularly for subloans which were
not intended for small beneficiaries, was not considered at
appraisal in order to broaden the institutional base of the
project. The PDBs and some non-bank financial intermediaries
(NBFI9) were made eligible in the later stage of project
implementation (para 6).
(iii) Policy and Institutional Reform. In retrospect, the project had
rather limited objectives and did not attempt to establish an
appropriate iastitutional and policy framework to support the
development of a financially sound and efficient rural credit
system. The institutional objectives of the project were tied to
implementation of the project itself. These objectives were mainly
the strengthening of the CB's rural credit operations through the
Technical Support and Evaluation Unit (TSEU); decentralization of
the CB's rural credit operations to regional offices to expedite the
release and recovery of funds and improve the supervision of finan-
cial institutions; decentralization of appraisal and approval
authority for subloan proposals to selected RBs; and establishment
of a Management Advisory Unit (MAU) to provide technical assistance
to RBs for facilitating decentralization. The training component of
the project was to complement technical assistance in achieving the
above institutional objectives. While the objective with regard to
the CB's capabilities was largely achieved, those with regard to the
RBs (decentralization) met with little success. Of the 325 finan-
cial institutions that participated in the project at various times,
only 26 (16 RBs and 10 PDBs) were granted partial authority (to
process and evaluate subloan applications) and 2 NFBIs granted full
authority to approve subloans. The reason given in the PCR (para



-8-
6.25, p. 66) for this marginal achievement of decentralization is
that the relatively low volume of term loans did not warrant the
hiring of additional employees by the financial institutions to
concentrate on term lending. The financial institutions instead
utilized existing employees such as farm technicians, who usually
handle short-term lending, to work at the same time on medium and
long-term lending with the assistance of CB Agricultural Credit
Supervisors.
19.       In retrospect, it appears that the project's non-intervention in the
larger policy and institutional framework itself militated against the
achievement of its limited institutional objectives. -Several aspects of this
larger policy and institutional framework deserve to be noted:
(a) As noted in the SAR (para 3.03), short-term agricultural production
loans constituted about 90% of RB portfolio. Medium and long-term
financing was limited almost entirely to that supported by the Bank
under the Rural Credit Projects and accounted for less than 10 of
RB loan portfolio. The highest priority of the RBs was, therefore,
understandably short-term production credit. The unwillingness of
these institutions to hire additional staff for term lending was
noted in para 18 (iii) above. Moreover, the arrearages on term
loans, particularly for tractors, caused illiquidity in the RB term
loan portfolio and made them unwilling, if not ineligible, to parti-
cipate (paras. 17 and 18 (i)). The Fourth Rural Credit Project,
which, like the earlier three credit projects, concentrated on
medium and long-term credit, was, therefore, an inappropriate
vehicle to upgrade the capabilities of RBs and, in turn, suffered
owing to this inability to induce sufficient institutional
development.
(b)  Government policies in the 19709 had resulted  in excessive
specialization and fragmentation of the financial market.
Individual banks and bank groups were legally allowed to lend only
for particular types of development activities or to narrowly
defined clientele. The RBs, for instance, had their lending
restricted to small farmers or farm families, cultivating not more
than 50 ha of agricultural lands, small merchants with capital of
less than P100,000 and the cooperatives. Also, the unit banking
concept applied to RBs so that they were not allowed to undertake
group banking or branch banking. Such specialization inhibited
efficient financial intermediation and restricted the capabilities
and profitablility of the RBs. It was only in 1980 that banking
reforms removed the restrictions placed on RBs and allowed them to
undertake universal banking. However, the process of financial,
structural and operational adjustment of RBs is still continuing.
(c) The introduction of Government-sponsored supervised credit programs,
particularly for Masagana-99, cattle fattening and fisheries, with
its sizeable arrearages, has placed the rural banking system under
continuous financial stress since 1975. Part of the reason for
arrearages was the low priority given by farmers to repaying



-9-
Government-sponsored loans. The adhoc nature-of these programs as
well as the rules and procedures governing them tended to undermine
the financial discipline of retail banks through often relaxed
subloan collection criteria which allowed the banks to carry high
arrearages and eventually caused them to be disqualified from new CB
financing. This adversely affected bank liquidity. Moreover, these
credit-cum-extension programs placed heavy demands on the financial
and managerial capabilities of participating banks which were often
weakened and, as a result, increasingly reluctant to participate in
Government-sponsored programs.  Many banks relied excessively on
Government's rather weak extension service for both subloan
appraisal and collection, rather than building up their own in-house
capabilities to undertake these tasks.
(d)  The Government policy of providing low-cost resources at regulated
spreads has not been conducive to viable agricultural lending by
rural institutions. While low cost credit increased the demand for
farm mechanization in the early 1970s, easy access to CB's low-cost
rediscounting facility discouraged retail banks from mobilizing
deposits. (Present estimates show that arrearages on subloans
extended by RBs from their deposit resources are far lower than
under subloans funded by CB). Moreover, the prescribed spreads on
subloans (including those under the Fourth Rural Credit Project)
either tended to increase interest rates of banks which could afford
to lend at lower rates or restricted agricultural lending of those
banks which found the spreads insufficient to cover their
transaction costs and risks of term lending and allow for a
reasonable profit on financial intermediation.
20.       Some of the policy and institutional issues discussed above are
being addressed in the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2570-PH) which is a
follow-on to the Fourth Rural Credit Project.
Issue of Project Beneficiaries
21.       It was noted at appraisal that progress in lending to smaller
farmers under the preceding three credit projects had been disappointing. The
upper limit of farm size for which RBs were authorized to extend credit was 50
ha. The majority of subloans had gone to borrowers at the upper end of the
size spectrum whose business contacts afforded them the best knowledge of
credit opportunities and whose financial position enabled them to provide the
most attractive collateral. It was recognized at appraisal that the credit
needs of small farmers were difficult to serve through private, commercially-
oriented credit systems such as the networks of RBs and SSLAs and that due
regard must be given to the financial strength and development of the
onlending institution (SAR, para 4.08). However, it was felt that there were
financially viable investments which could be tailored to the needs of small
entrepreneurs and accordingly, the nature and size of most components of the
project were determined with that objective in mind (SAR, para 4.08) and a
minimum share of project proceeds was expected to go to small beneficiaries
(para. 3).



- 10 -
22.       By project completion, only 6% of total subloans had gone to small
beneficiaries compared to 31% expected at appraisal. The PCR gives the
following reasons for non-achievement of the target (PCR, para 3.12, pp. 28-
30): (i) The definition of small beneficiaries was unrealistic; even though
the borrowers of RBs were small, they had income much higher than that speci-
fied at appraisal; (ii) most participating RBs and SSLAs were attracted to the
financing of big and medium-sized entrepreneurs and avoided small time
borrowers due to risk and administrative costs involved; loan repayments on
non-supervised and highly collateralized loans showed a better performance
compared to non-collateralized but supervised short term loans granted to
small borrowers (para 18(i)); (iii) increasing production costs made it
difficult for small farmers to put up the required 10% equity; (iv) lukewarm
attitude of most RBs and SSLAs in accepting Certificates of Land Transfer as
collaterals; (v) presence of other lending institutions granting similar loans.
to the same clientele; and (vi) increasing cost of machinery, particularly
power tillers, which made viability of thp investment questionable and led to
reduction in demand from small borrowers.-
23.       The credit quota laid down at appraisal for small beneficiaries
turned out to be overly optimistic owing to the restrictive definition of
small beneficiaries, existing land tenure system leading to collateral
problems and increasing investment costs. The majority of small farmers
remain outside the formal credit system. The complexities involved in
attempting poverty alleviation through a commercially-oriented credit system
were underestimated at appraisal. The issue of whether the Government should
use credit institutions as conduits for expanding the supply of credit to
poverty target groups, if such programs tend to jeopardize the system's
viability and eventually even exclude the poor for whose benefit the programs
were originally designed, requires careful analysis. The Philippines
Agricultural Credit Sector Review, which was undertaken to analyze the issues
emerging from implementation of the Fourth Rural Credit Project, concluded:
"....In the long-term interest of the credit system as well as the clientele
it is supposed to serve, credit programs should be kept distinct from the
Government subsidy....By and large, credit should serve the borrowers who, on
the basis of their skills, equity and the technoeconomic feasibility of the
project, qualify for a commercial loan while Government subsidies could be
directed to eligible clients on the basis of well-defined poverty norms"
(World Bank, Report No. 4117-PH, May 12, 1983, para. 4.32). The Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 2570-PH), which incorporates lessons learnt from the
implementation of the Fourth Rural Credit Project and does not allocate funds
by borrowers, includes a study to provide guidelines to identify target groups
and define ways of assisting such groups directly by means other than credit
subsidies.
Other Appraisal Design lssules
24.       Other elements of appraisal design which slowed loan disbursements
included: (i! specific commodity and subsectoral allocations; (ii) low
2/   Comments by NEDA pertaining to small beneficiaries are in Annex 1.



- 11 -
subloan limits; and (iii) exclusion of financing of tractors in excess of
68 hp after a period of 18 months from the date of the Loan Agreement. As
regards specific allocations, it is not clear whether at appraisal there were
significant distortions in the economy to warrant this restrictive approach.
If it were not so, as appears to be the case, particularly evidenced in the
economic analysis section of the SAR, it would have provided flexibility to
the implemen,iine institutions to let market forces determine the loan
portfolio and regard the allocations as merely indicative. The loan portfolio
was eventually market-determined (para 8). The low subloan limit (P 350,000)
was evidently designed to ensure enough loan funds remaining available for
small beneficiaries.  However, this slowed   sbursements and the loan limit
had to be raised considerably (para. 6(ii)). The limitation on tractors hp
also turned out to be restrictive (as documented in the Supervision Report of
August 1981) and had to be relaxed for sugar cane areas (para. 6(v)).



K
\1
'I)
(N
'k i



-13-                        Annex I
4%,                  REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES         Page 1
NATIONAL ECONOMIC AND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
NEDA sa Pasig, Amber Avenue
Pasig, Metro Manila
Comments Received from the National                  CableAddres: NEDAPHIL
Economic and Development Authoritv                   P.O. Box 419, Grgenhills
Teds. 673-50-31 to 50
November 7, 1985
\1r. Yukinori Watanabe
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bar"
1818 1I Street, NW
Washington, D.C., USA 20433
Dear MIr. Watanabe:
RE: Project Completion Report on PhilippinesFourth
Rural Lredit Project (Loan 1399-PtI)
Thank you for furnishing the NE\A a copy of the abovementioned
report and for allowing us to give our views on its findings.
while the observations and findings of the report are found to be
aenerally objective and constructive, w:e would like to add a few
points on the following aspects with reference to the relevant para-
graphs as indicated.
Results (p. iv)
The subloan nortfolio at completion was considerably different from
that specified at appraisal. T e think, as per para. 24 of the PCR
Overview, that the basis for snecific commoditv and subsectoral allo-
cations for the proceeds of the loan at appraisal is unclear. For
that matter, sub-sectoral demand for credit as a basis for allocation
has yet to be established.
Findings andl Lessons (p. v)
The project excluded financial intermed.aries other than RBs and
SSL&s which contributed to the narrowed institutional base of the
project.  Wie would like to note that majority of small farmers avail
of their credit requirements from informal sources. Therefore,
although the disqualification of a nunber of RBs and SSLAs due to
their arrearages reduced the number participating institutions,
still a large number of farmers remain outside the formal credit
system, and need to be reached through more creative means adaptable
to their attitudes and behaviour.
Relatedly, majority of subloans had gone to borrowers at the upper
end of the size spectrum (para. 21-22, PCR Overview).  This further



-14-                       Annex I
Page 2
manifests that private, comnercially-oriented credit systems do not
represent suitable conduits for the real "small beneficiaries". We
agree that the definition of small beneficiaries (paras. 3, 22) was
unrealistic since even those groups earning above P7,500 per year
are still considered small and majority in the banking system are
apprehensive in lending to these groups. An annual income slightly
above P7,500 still does not guarantee a borrower's bankability espe-
cially if the project to be financed is agriculture-related, which
is considered to have a high risk.
It was pointed out at appraisal (ShA, para. 4.08) that it was felt
that there were financially viable investments which could be
tailored to the needs of small entrepreneurs and accordingly, the
nature and size of most components of the project were detemined
with that objective in mind, and a minimum share of project pro-
ceeds was expected to go to small beneficiaries. Again, this may be
related to the lack of specific demand estimate by subsector and
farm size. And although that presumption may be valid, those target
groups may be very small relative to the larger market which prefer
non-fonmal sources.
Training (para. 11, PCR Overview)
We would like to note that training has been a component of previous
Bank assistance to the Central Bank. However, no evaluation has yet
been made or mentioned of their benefits or effectiveness as regards
strengthening of institutional capability especially those inter-
mediaries serving the rural areas.
Since most of the retail banks in the project relied on "government's
weak extension services" (para. 19(c)) for subloan appraisal and
collection, there also appears to be a need for training government
extension workers who play a vital role in project implementation.
Similar projects in the future could consider the participation of
government extension workers and field technicians in the training
component of the project.
Overall, the Fourth Rural Credit Project, as a continuation of the
CB's medium-and long-term credit program and as designed, does not
represent a significant departure from previous credit assistance to
the rural sector. Major and critical issues raised regarding the
Project and the rural credit sector as a viiole have been extensively
discussed in the Bank's Agricultural Credit Sector Review (t'y 1985).
Accordingly, measures that would address such issues have been
packaged with the succeeding Agricultural Credit Project.
We hope that our comments will be useful to the final evaluation of
the project.
Best regards.
Very truly yours,
Minister of Economic Planndng 6
Director -General



-15--               ~~~~Annex 2
0AI Sy/;& SntwL' fly L1Rpirzai
(CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES)
MAYNILA, PILIPINAS
Comments Received from the Central Bank of the Philippines
OFFICE CF THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE GOVENOR
SUPERVISION AND E:XAMZ ATION SECTOR
November 11, 1985
Mr. YUkiinori Watanabe
Director
Opexations Evaluation Department
International Bank for Recons-
truction and Development
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
Sir :
This refers to your letter dated October 22, 1985, asking for our
camments on your draft report on the performance audit to determine
the extent of achievement of project objectives, reasons for shortfalls,
outstanding achievements and the general effectiveness of the World
Bank support for lending operation, using as primary focus the Project
Completion Report on the Philippines Fourth Rural Credit Project (loan
No. 1399 PH),
We have gone over the text of the said draft report and we found
it to be very comprehensive and reflects an unbiased and objective
evaluation on the implementation of the recently concluded 4th CB:IBRD
Rural Credit Project. We concur in the findings and observations stated
therein and we hope that both the World Bank Mission and the Central
Bank of the Philippines can learn from these past experiences in order
to minimize, if not totally avoid,pitfalls in the appraisal and imple-
mentation of similar projects in the future.
Thank you.
Very truly yours,
'   .'   f  .
CONSOIACION V. ODRA
Special Assistant to the Governor
& Head, SES Department III
IPAGPATULOY ANG KAUNLARAN                             MAG-IMPOK SA BANGKO



V
'KI
\ K
-N
l ol
n \
rs "
'N4



- 17 -                         3
ZC. C."DICT748( RV:A1AV
R    F      -I     I.P P.Rt eceive frm the mnl.ty of IFInnee
ReAA :t92
2411423 WOIlRLIAHK
ZCEZC
DE1  2/4?
THI WORLD BRANK
u I   N.l Ar
ATT. MR* YVUKINORI WAIANAE.* DIRECIOR
OP(IUVI ONS 'I (At.t.A'(X   I ON DP.
R
REUII. El rE E ri 22 OCIORR (ON PROJEC l ltO Ci M (:ONPI. (ION REPORI ON Or'JRTH
CkoO Itr PltROJlt:IC  (lOAN I99-PH) * PtL.*:AM;  *  IM. W(RN*C  rlAT WC. FOUtND
THE REPORT  ;AMrAA:CIORY i x:c.EPTr FOR PARA ;. !;SEmilEM     I s1. WE 'MOROGEBT
DFL.rxTO  OF Rt(:I;FR(WCN r rol P"RF9101! ruiRC PRU:C:CrV; RO:HARD9;.
MINF XN VIRAIA
ALl RID rkO:Fk OFJJM
NWWN



IBRD 1938
41b'    4IASSII,IVAItUl 0IPRUVINXtS                   120                                                    124
UN ULOGRAPUICAL. Rf.t;lUNS
N(>i" r'. StlO)\5.CsPl'*fI      0 \                                                                                       PHILIPPINES
Il.O(EOS              V4I  tS1, R N VIS4'AS
' ll~ooNhiQ te        8 Aktae
3  o.'.r               39 Ca6'i
20'  4 Wr.n,Su                    40 Iloilque                                        8                FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                              20-
' V0U,ni14  Negros 0,e,,eta,
'd'~ Iaiet        \ t t    \I R 1 t8 VI S iYAS
43 CWb
* P4nqasnan,          44 NegrosD,ental                                                                          O     M4JQP C'T'FS
.'A, N A\\. 5At Ll         45 oloht                                                                                  t      blRPORTS
8                       46tr  46 Squo                                                                             -       IRORTS
-90 C,J, ,         VltI .5S,418'. ViS-'t AS                                                                  -.----ROADL ~S
10 Ke4q3Al,aTaiyo        47 1 en54re a.ae                                                                                    V RAILWAYS
1t Irwbelv ~~49 We,,letn Samat                                                                                     PR..-   tOVINCE 8OONDARIE73
I? s.qa,                 49 East_n SantA                                                                                 RE9IGN BOUNDARIGS
!3 N,ffa V4s9 ra 50  L eyt e                                                  P |1o".                          -   -    INTJNAT0T,05A,A  BOUNDARIES
14 Q.,r,n                51 SouTher, Leyte           Looog  .<5: 
9; tIN\RX -LLLt ZO\         1X w    Slt RN MINOA).NAtOT 
15 N-vaEco               52 Zaaeboangacel None              1.
'6 TaeJac                53 7&.sboa,nqadel Sur                 2    1
17 te'aeees              54 Basfan                                7  10   ,
18 P"oanqa                5 Sulu
'9 B3utIaA               56 Ta4-T.at                                 '. :       4
20 8ataan              X    R I IttER'\. m1ANAO
*i   U 4M     IHI FN tAt.ALCti   b7 Agsan det Nte  So.
23                       58 Ag.jsan del Sur    reinndo   s,"  5
22 Ot,ezon               b9 BUkIdnon                                  3, 
23 RZeal                 6  lagu4n                                       14 a  KlOME t ES  '                                      I50  200   250   300
-16'     24 Cavta                 61 Misams Oom-na                                 4 /                        LMFI(ES 
25 LSagna                62 Misamis Oriental                             '                               MIlES            0         I00       150       200l.
26 Bmenqas               63 Su.igao del Norte                      Son10Y2126
27 Mar-nduclue        XI LASTERN MINDANAO                    '    3oe2
28 Mindoro Oriental      64 Davao del Note          Taktoc           b
29 M.nooro Ocodentat    65 Davao Oriental           17     t 4        OfluO
30 Rom,blon              66 Dgvao del Sur         Angel       l 19  t
3' Paleea-,              67 South Cotabato
9BtOL                       68 Surio,0 del Sur  Olongopo   20 S             22
32 Canarmes Norte    Xit SOLTHERN MINDANAO             NCR rIB          ILA
33 Camar;nes Sur         69 Lango det Nore
34 Catanduanee           70 Lanao del Sur
3SAlbee                  71 Laguindanao                 N      -       '  Pogbl1ao b   ^
36lSrsogon               72 North Cotabto 
37 Masbate               73 Sultin Kudarat                                                           3      "  34
-  Sarl                                \ ' ,, Atlenos
N                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~47   _
>xJose       a        30               37                                O 7- rs
42'                                           'K                                                  48~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 49
,8/   | \ *  27t ' |   {         t-tisS;3<lobon
31                         /1 41
/~~~'  Boo'4/  k  So                                               7
Pr pve sa                                      Coooyon 0                 762           ",             63
P,,nceso                                                                                            ga.  -   S6-oo
70'
40      00~~~~~C
I    Cogovonlde )           -/.      68
58
.      -qotobatoIO                   7    2     -o:b
_ -0       Zon'boonga                     , -  71 Dovbo
V.FT NAM           .,3                                                                                                                   66
PHILtPPINES
'.1    3.'i  S                                              055 $one
PA I       Al WAV'A 
,~~~~~~~~ A_. 120'                                                                   '24-                                                                                  128-1
190VEMBER 1985



