Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2021-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
March 24, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =   Pesos 7.50
US$133.00        =   Pesos 1,000
US$133,000           Pesos 1,000,000
ABBREVIATIONS
CB        - Central Bank
DRBSLA    - Department of Rural Banks and Savings and
Loan Associations of the CB
UPLB      - University of the Philippines at Los Banos
AMTESP    - Agricultural Machinery Testing
Evaluation and Standardization Project
DA        - Department of Agriculture
SSLA      - Stock and Savings and Loan Association
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
1975:       July 1, 1974-June 30, 1975
1976:       July 1, 1975-December 31, 1976
From 1977: January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM.ENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Central Bank of the Philippines for the equivalent of $36.5 million to
help finance a Fourth Rural Credit Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including four and one half years of grace and an interest rate of
8.5% per annum. The Central Bank would relend $35.7 million of the proceeds
of the loan to participating rural banks and stock savings and loan associations
(SSLAs) at an interest rate of 9% per annum. However, the portion of tke
proceeds to be used for subloans to land reform beneficiaries would be relent
to the same institutions at an interest rate of 7% per annum. Repayment to
the Central Bank would substantially reflect the aggregate of the repayment
schedules of subloans made by the rural banks and SSLAs. The Central Bank
would pass on $300,000 of the proceeds of the loan to the Department of
Agriculture to finance an Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and
Standardization Project and would utilize the balance of $500,000 to finance
vehicles, studies and staff training.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in April/May 1975 and
its report, "The Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development, Basic
Economic Report" (No. 1095a-PH of May 5, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366). Paragraphs 3-16 below are an
updated summary of that report. Annex I contains country economic data.
3.        During the 1960s, the economy grew in real terms at an annual rate
of about 5-6%. However, the rate of growth was less than the level that
might have been achieved if the considerable natural and human resources
of the Philippines had been exploited more effectively. Moreover, the
benefits of growth were distributed relatively unevenly. As the population
and labor force continued to grow rapidly, unemployment rose. Low levels of
taxation accentuated these problems and resulted in inadequate public invest-
ment in necessary infrastructure and social services. A relatively weak
export performance combined with a failure to reduce the import dependence of
domestic industry resulted in a steady deterioration in the balance of
payments position.
4.        During 1970-72, the authorities adopted policies of monetary and
fiscal restraint in order to lay a firm basis for future growth. With
/1 This is the same discussion of the economy as that in the President's
Report for the Jalaur Irrigation Project (P-1973-PH of January 5, 1977)
with minor updating.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



assistance from the Consultative Group for the Philippines, they succeeded in
improving substantially the maturity structure of the external public debt.
Real GNP during that period increased at about 5% a year. In 1972, the
Government initiated a series of social and economic reforms including an
agrarian reform program, tax reforms, and an administrative reorganization.
5.        In 1973, there was a sharp increase in the level of economic activity
in the Philippines and the growth in real GNP doubled to 10%. This upsurge
was led by the international commodity boom, which resulted in higher export
incomes, a strong recovery in agricultural and industrial production for the
domestic market, and an expansion in public and private investment.
6.        Like most countries, the Philippines was profoundly affected by the
events in the world economy that began with the marked increase in the prices
for food and petroleum in late 1973. With international trade the equivalent
of almost half of its GNP, the Philippines was quite vulnerable to the impact
of world inflation, the increase in oil prices, and the prolonged recession
in the industrialized countries. While adverse effects of the recession were
cushioned somewhat in 1974 by a modest improvement in the external terms of
trade, the Philippines was more seriously affected in 1975 by the continued
rise in import prices and reduced demand for Philippine exports. While the
international economic situation has made it difficult for the Government to
realize its objective of accelerating the rate of development, GNP in 1974,
1975, and 1976, nevertheless, grew in real terms at an annual rate of about 6%.
7.        Agricultural production has grown at an average rate of 3.2% per
year during the 1970s, a period which has been characterized by unusually
adverse weather conditions. Rice production increased by 25% in 1973/74, but
because of damage by typhoons, grew by only 1% in 1974/75; the Government had
to import 200,000 tons in the first half of 1975 to ensure adequate stocks.
However, the rice harvest in 1975/76 was very good due to favorable weather
conditions and during this period the Philippines was virtually self-sufficient
in rice. The Government continues to give the highest priority to further
increasing agricultural production and has initiated a number of programs
designed to expand the use of fertilizer, irrigation and supervised credit.
It has also intensified efforts to expand the social services needed in rural
areas, including rural electrification, health and family planning services,
and village road and small-scale irrigation projects.
8.        Although progress has been slower than initially planned, the
Government has made some progress with its agrarian reform for the nation's
one million tenant farmers who grow rice and corn. By September 30, 1976, the
Government had issued Certificates of Land Transfer to 224,000 of the
424,000 tenants on holdings of over 7 hectares; thus, title to 390,000 ha
of the total 825,000 hectares of farms occupied by such tenants has been
transferred. The Government has raised the cash portion of the compensation
package to landlords to reduce their resistance to land reform, but strong
administrative efforts will be necessary to ensure continued progress in the
implementation of the program.
9.        Industry accounts for almost 30% of net domestic product, one third
of total fixed investment and 15% of total employment. Industrial production,
which grew by 12% in 1973, was adversely affected in 1974 and 1975 by the



- 3 -
worldwide economic slowdown and the depressed demand for Philippine exports.
As a result, industrial production increased by only 4% in 1974 and 5% in
1975. Stepped-up public sector spending for infrastructure development and
other priority projects has contributed significantly to sustaining the
higher level of domestic activity in 1976, especially in the construction
industry. The longer term prospects for industrial growth are favorable
because of the natural and human resource endowment of the Philippines and a
very active private sector.
10.       The Government has made significant progress in increasing public
investment. The ratio of public investment to GNP is currently over 4%,
having risen from 1.8% in FY72. /1 The Government has also implemented a
series of long needed tax reforms and improvements in tax administration.
These reforms, aided by the increased economic activity, the boom in export
incomes, and domestic inflation, resulted in a 36% increase in national
government tax revenues in FY73, and an estimated 47 percent in FY74. The
ratio of national government tax revenues to GNP has increased from an
average of 9% in the early 1970s to about 12% during the period FY74-76.
11.       Significant financial reforms have also been introduced.    At the
beginning of 1976, the Central Bank issued circulars designed to help ration-
alize the level and structure of deposit and lending rates; deposit rates
were raised for the second time in 18 months; long-standing statutory ceilings
on the long-term lending rates of banking institutions were increased from
12-14% to 19% per annum; and the ceilings on short-term lending rates were
raised. Efforts were also made to control short-term money market operations
and to strengthen the organized banking institutions. These actions should
help to improve the mobilization and allocation of domestic resources in the
Philippines.
12.       In the latter part of 1973, inflation emerged as a major problem
in the Philippines. The increase in prices was caused by the large increase
in liquidity that came with the export boom in 1973/74, and by a number of
cost-push factors, including the higher rate of world inflation. To deal
with this problem, the Government adopted contractionary monetary and fiscal
policies, and attempted to reduce the impact of inflation on consumers by
subsidizing such essential goods as wheat, imported rice, and cooking oil.
The annual inflation rate fell from 35% in 1974 to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976.
13.       On the external side, Philippine's balance of payments benefited
considerably from the international commodity price boom during 1973. High
prices for the country's chief exports, including coconut products, sugar,
copper and wood products, resulted in a 70% increase in export earnings
and a current account surplus of about $550 million. Since mid-1974, the
external trade position has deteriorated, due to the sharp increases in the
prices of oil and other imports, less favorable prices for Philippine exports,
/1 Fiscal year July 1 to June 30.



and reduced volume of some exports resulting from the downturn in the econo-
mies of the Philippines' main trading partners. As a result, current account
deficits of about $900 million in 1975 and about $1,000 million in 1976 were
incurred. The current account deficits have been offset by direct foreign
investment, inflows of medium- and long-term loan capital, the use of IMF
facilities and some short-term borrowing by the Central Bank. External
reserves were about $1.2 billion at the end of 1976, equivalent to four
months' imports. Assuming continued sound debt management and the mainten-
ance of a reasonable maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall
level of external debt of the Philippines is expected to remain within
reasonable limits, as the ratio of debt service payments to exports and
nonfactor services would average about 16-17% during the rest of this
decade. At present, the Bank/IDA share in total debt outstanding is about
17% and its share in debt-service is about 4%. These shares are expected to
increase somewhat in the years ahead.
14.       Substantial foreign assistance will be essential to help finance the
large investment expenditures which will be necessary for the country's develop-
ment. In order to ensure that disbursement of external assistance reaches
levels commensurate with the level of development expenditures which will be
required during the latter part of the decade and that debt service obligations
remain within reasonable limits, total commitments of official assistance will
need to be maintained in real terms at least at the annual level of about $500
million which was achieved in 1974. The Consultative Group for the Philippines
at its meeting in Paris on June 15 and 16, 1976, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippine Government to seek official aid commitments of
about $600 million in 1976 and $700 million in 1977. Total new commitments of
public and private medium- and long-term capital are estimated to have reached
$2 billion in 1976 and need to be maintained at approximately this level
through 1980.
15.       Despite the slowdown in the growth of the economy, which is pri-
marily a result of worldwide economic conditions, the Government remains
committed to regaining the growth momentum, which began in 1973, to provide
for a continued increase in incomes and employment. Both the Philippine
Government and the Bank's Basic Economic Report estimate that it should be
possible in the longer term for the Philippine economy to grow in real terms
at a rate of about 7% per annum provided that good economic management
continues and international economic conditions improve. High priority must
be accorded to expanding employment opportunities, because unemployment
and underemployment are still high and the labor force continues to grow
at 3% a year. Continued attention must also be given to expanding the
Government's effective family planning program to reduce the rate of growth
of the population and the labor force.
16.       The Government is pursuing a development strategy which focuses on
rural development with emphasis on food production, accelerated industriali-
zation, both in capital-intensive resource based industries and labor-intensive
export industries, and a substantial expansion in public sector investment in
infrastructure to support the growth of the productive sectors. In support
of these objectives, the Government plans to continue its efforts to increase
public revenues, to strengthen the capacity of public sector agencies and to



-5-
foster the growth of exports. The Government recognizes that the increased
cost of petroleum and other imports cannot be financed indefinitely by borrow-
ing abroad, and it is actively encouraging both local and foreign investors to
expand productive investments. It will, however, take time for Government
programs to have an impact on the balance of payments, and the Government is,
therefore, seeking increased support from the international financial community
to assist in the financing of its development effort. The Government's
development program will continue to require foreign resources in addition to
the capital which would become available for the financing of the foreign
exchange component of development projects. Some financing of local costs is
justified, especially for projects of economic and social importance which
need only limited amounts of foreign exchange.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       By February 28, 1977, the Philippines had received 41 Bank loans /1
(of which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,052.2 million, net of cancellations. About 40% of Bank lending ($401
million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transportation, and
water supply and one third ($318 million) has been for agriculture. Of
the remainder, about $250 million has been for industry and about $83 million
has been for social sector projects in education, population and urban devel-
opment. There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-financed
projects in the last four years compared with experience in the 1960s, when
there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso counterpart funds and
poor administration. All ongoing projects are now being implemented reason-
ably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of February 28, 1977 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
18.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups.
About one third of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be
for agriculture and rural development projects and another third would be for
needed basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation
and power. The amount of lending for social sector projects, including
education, population and urban development, is expected to continue to grow
rapidly and account for nearly 20% of future lending. The balance of
future lending would be for industrial development, where growing attention
is being given to the needs of small and medium industries with high employ-
ment potential. The rapid growth in public revenues during the past five
years has allowed for a significant expansion in public investment and both
the ambitious Philippine development program and the Bank's growing lending
program have been designed to make good past neglect and to meet future
/1 An additional loan of $25 million for the Fourth Education Project was
approved on March 1, 1977. It has not yet been signed.



-6-
needs. Bank lending totalled $165.1 million in FY74, $208 million in FY75
and $268 million in FY76 compared to about $30 million a year in the preceding
five years.
19.       This is the fourth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY77. Other loans which may be ready for presentation within a few months
are for irrigation, land settlement, power and water supply projects; a
smallholder tree farming/forestry project and a rural infrastructure project
are also under consideration and are well advanced in the appraisal cycle. A
primary objective of most of these projects is to help the Government meet its
objective of increasing the productivity and incomes of the poorer segments of
the population.
20.       As of February 28, 1977, IFC has made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $79 million for investment in 14 projects in the fields of devel-
opment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, paper, petroleum
products, nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and
edible oils. Of these investments, $26.6 million had been sold, cancelled
and repaid, leaving a net portfolio of $52.4 million, including $1.9 million
undisbursed.
PART III - THE RURAL CREDIT SECTOR
The Rural Sector in the Philippines
21.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about one-third of gross national product, one-half of
total employment, and nearly three-quarters of commodity export earnings.
Over 70% of the 9 million hectares of land under cultivation is currently
used for the production of cereals, of which rice and corn are the most
important. The remaining land is taken up by the major export crops:
sugar, coconut, abaca, pineapple, and tobacco.
22.       Although there has been a substantial change in the terms of trade
in favor of agriculture in recent years, the problems of poverty and income
distribution continue to be particularly acute in rural areas; of the 15
million people in the bottom 40% of the income scale, 12 million live in
rural areas. The Government is aware of these problems and has initiated a
number of programs designed to assist the rural poor. These includ the
Masagana 99 and Masaganang Maisan credit programs to support rice and corn
production, respectively, increased production of commercial crops for
export, expanded irrigation, development of forest resources, and livestock
and fisheries production programs to reduce imports and raise local nutrition
levels. The success of many agricultural programs will depend on increased
use of high yielding seed varieties, fertilizers and agro-chemicals, and the
provision of adequate credit and other supporting services. The performance
of the agricultural sector will be crucial in determining whether the drive
towards rapid and more equitable income expansion succeeds.



-7-
The Agricultural Credit System
23.       Agricultural credit provided by institutions (both governmental and
private) probably accounts for only about one-third of all agricultural credit;
the remainder is provided by traditional noninstitutional sources. Inadequate
coverage by credit institutions in rural areas, collateral requirements, and
the traditional bonds between landowner and tenant have slowed the development
of a modern credit system to serve rural people. Although noninstitutional
sources have some advantages for the small farmer (such as flexibility in
repayment periods), the interest rates are very high. The Government has
been developing a more modern credit system in the rural areas by encouraging
the formation of private rural banks, providing production credit to small
farmers without collateral through the Masagana programs, and extending the
coverage of government-owned financial institutions.
24.       Government institutions have been providing about 20% of all insti-
tutional credit to agriculture. The Philippine National Bank (PNB) with 170
branches and 120 mobile banks is the largest of these institutions; about 30%
of its total lending in 1975 was for agriculture, the vast bulk of which was
in the form of short-term credit under the Masagana programs and for commer-
cial agriculture. The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) has become
an important lender of term credit for a wide range of enterprises in the
rural sector and 28% of its lending in 1975 was for agriculture. The Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP) has been revitalized and is expected to play a
growing role in lending to smaller farmers, while the future role of the
Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA), which provides only about 2% of
Government agricultural credit, is uncertain. Of the private institutions,
commercial banks provide 55% of all institutional agricultural credit and are
the most important source. The Central Bank requires that a minimum of 25%
of all commercial bank lending go to agriculture. While only 30 commercial
banks lend directly to farmers, mainly for seasonal credit for commercial
agriculture, many commercial banks purchase Central Bank bonds, which are
then used to refinance agricultural lending by other institutions. Coopera-
tives play only a small role in providing credit now, but their importance,
especially in providing credit assistance to land reform beneficiaries, is
likely to grow rapidly, because of government's present emphasis on coopera-
tive development.
25.       Rural banks are the other important source of agricultural credit
and provide about 20% of all institutional credit. Since 1952, the Govern-
ment has actively encouraged the establishment of privately owned rural banks
to provide rural areas with banking facilities. The rural banking system,
consisting presently of over 800 individual banks (compared with 300 in 1965
and over 700 in 1974), has the most extensive network of banking institutions
in the country. Establishment of rural banks is authorized by the Monetary
Board and the Government may at the time of establishment assist them by
subscribing in the form of preferred shares up to an amount equal to shares
subscribed by private individuals. At the end of 1975, shares held by the
Government accounted for 26% of paid-in capital; this percentge has been
decreasing in recent years as a result of progressive sales by government of
shares to private shareholders. The Central Bank provides rural banks with
training for management and staff, technical assistance in lending and
administration, and funds through Special Time Deposits and rediscounting
facilities. It also supervises and examines their operations.



26.       As of December 30, 1975, rural banks' total resources were E 2,749
million (US$377 million), consisting of P 276 million (US$38 million) in paid-
capital; P 150 million (US$20 million) in surpluses, reserves and undistrib-
uted profits, P 678 million (US$93 million) in deposits, and E 1,489 million
(US$204 million) in borrowing, mostly from the Central Bank. In the past
three years, total liabilities more than tripled from P 694 million at the end
of 1972 to F 2,323 million at the end of 1975. This increase was primarily
due to the introduction of the Masagana 99 and Masaganang Maisan food grain
production programs and to increased disbursements under the Bank-financed
rural credit projects.
27.       The loan portfolio of rural banks increased rapidly in recent years
from P 770 million (US$103) at the end of 1972 to P 2,324 million (US$310
million) at December 31, 1975; an increase of over 200%. More than 90% of
these loans were to agriculture and the average loan size in 1975 was P 2,220
(US$296). Medium- and long-term financing, limited almost entirely to the
credit program supported by the Bank-financed rural credit projects, accounts
for less than 10% of rural bank loan portfolios.
28.       The rural banks are experiencing unsatisfactory levels of arrears.
As of December 31, 1975, arrears accounted for 21.4% of the outstanding port-
folio of the rural banks, a significant increase from 16.7% on December 31,
1974. The main reasons for this increase are the rapid expansion in port-
folios as a result of agricultural programs providing large numbers of loans
to small farmers, heavy typhoon damage in 1974 and 1975 and inadequate
technical support for the credit programs.    A more detailed analysis of a
sample of 268 rural banks indicated that, as of March 31, 1976, arrears
amounted to 36% on a demand basis (arrears as a percentage of the sum of
principal and interest due during the preceding twelve months plus amounts
due at the beginning of the period). The Government is very concerned about
this problem and is taking a number of steps to improve collection perfor-
mance.
29.       The Government is taking steps to improve the arrears situation.
A National Commission for Countryside Credit and Collection (NCCC), chaired
by the Central Bank's Governor, has been established to review the existing
large overdues, to assist banks in their collection efforts, and to formulate
education programs to improve repayment habits. A Presidential Instruction
has also been issued which provides for strict loan enforcement procedures,
including stronger and more effective legal sanctions for nonpayment, auto-
matic salary deductions for Government employees who are in default and a
substantial increase in the collection staff of rural banks. In addition,
as of November 30, 1976 rediscounting facilities of the Central Bank had been
denied to 257 rural banks which had arrears in excess of 25% of their total
portfolio. The Central Bank has recently conducted an extensive survey of
the rural banks and has agreed to rescheduling in the case of loans which are
overdue as a result of natural calamities. As a result, many of the affected
rural banks are expected to requalify for limited additional rediscounting
facilities.



- 9 -
30.       The 44 Stock Savings and Loan Associations (SSLA) supplement the
coverage of the rural banking system. They are registered as stock corpora-
tions by the Government and can accept deposits from and make loans to the
public. As of December 31, 1975, the total paid-up capital of all SSLA was
P 54.4 million ($7.3 million)? The main source of funds is savings and time
deposits collected from the public. In the past, SSLA lent primarily for
commercial and housing purposes, but their lending for agriculture has increased
from 13% in 1974 to 31% of their total lending in 1975. The collection perfor-
mance of SSLA is satisfactory.
Government Strategy for the Agricultural Credit Sector
31.       In September 1975, the inter-agency Presidential Committee on
Agricultural Credit (PCAC) and its working group, the Technical Board on
Agricultural Credit (TBAC), were established to address the issues and
problems surrounding the future of the sector. Among the priority issues
which have emerged so far, and which the Bank has discussed with the Govern-
ment, are: the need for improved methods of assisting small farmers; arrears
in agricultural credit lending; the roles of the various types of banks
providing rural credit, especially for land reform beneficiaries; new sources
of funds for agricultural credit; the financing of improved marketing facili-
ties; and the possibility of introducing a crop insurance scheme. The
Government and the Bank plan to hold further discussions on the outcome of
initial work on these issues later in 1977.
Experience Under the Previous Rural Credit Projects
32.      The three previous rural credit projects supported by the Bank
played an important role in increasing the supply of term credit in rural
areas. The first loan (Loan 432-PH, $5.0 million) was made in 1965 to assist
the rural banking system in beginning to channel medium and long-term credit
to farmers and fishermen. The second loan was made in 1969 (Loan 607-PH,
$12.5 million) and financed basically the same subloan categories as the
first, but also included storage and processing facilities and on-farm
transportation equipment. Demand for term credit during the initial stage
of project implementation was low due to the effects of peso devaluation
and of poor weather conditions; consequently, disbursements were completed
only in June 1974, a delay of 18 months from the projected date.
33.       Under the third project (Loan 1010-PH of June 17, 1974 for $22.5
million), additional sub-loan categories added were farm machinery repair
shops, reconditioned trucks, fishmeal plants, woodcraft plants, fishpens, and
small dairy farming.  Stock savings and loan associations were brought into
the project for the first time to provide additional channels for lending to
project beneficiaries.  Demand for tractors and power tillers continued to be
strong, and project funds were fully committed in December 1975, about 18
months ahead of schedule..



- 10 -
34.       The first three rural credit projects have been successful in pro-
viding a substantial increase in term credit to the rural areas, contributing
to expanded agricultural production, and assisting the Central Bank in devel-
oping the rural banking system along viable commercial lines. Under the three
projects, about 11,500 subloans were made totalling P 420 million ($56 mil-
lion). At the same time, there have been a number of problems and short-
comings identified by Bank supervision and appraisal missions and in reports
of the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). These concerns are discussed
below along with arrangements under the proposed project to help remedy them.
35.       High loan arrearages have been a persistent problem.   To reinforce
its existing efforts to reduce the arrearages position of rural banks, the
Central Bank has agreed that only rural banks whose arrears do not exceed 25%
of total portfolio would be eligible to participate in the project. In
addition, the Central Bank's Rules and Regulations under which the project
would be carried out, state that a rural bank, in order to participate, would
have arrears on medium and long-term loans of not more than 30% of "demand"
(defined as the sum of principal and interest falling due during the preceding
12 month period plus overdues at the beginning of that period). This maximum
level of allowable arrears on medium and long-term loans would be reduced to
25% of "demand" as of January 1, 1978, and to 20% of "demand" as of July 1, 1978.
Any change either from the agreed maximum levels of allowable arrears or in the
agreed timetable for their introduction would require the prior approval of the
Bank. The Government has also agreed to undertake a study of the causes of
arrears, prepare an action plan for reducing arrears, and submit copies of these
documents to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1977 (Section 4.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement).
36.       Aside from the question of very high loan arrearages, one of the
most intractable problems noted by the Project Audit Report/l has been the
need to increase the number of smaller farm beneficiaries reached by the
projects. Beneficiaries usually owned farms of between 5-50 ha. The main
impediments to increasing lending to small farmers include the existing
heavy indebtedness of small farmers, their need for production rather than
term credit, and the fact that rural banks are commercial institutions, which
are often reluctant to accept the financial risks associated with term
lending to small farmers. Many of the project components have been designed
to meet the needs of smaller farmers. For the purposes of the project,
smaller farmers have been defined either as subborrowers who earn less than
F 7,500 ($1,000) a year, or derive at least 75% of their earned income from
a farm smaller than 7 ha, a fishpond or fishpen smaller than 5 ha, a fish-
ing boat of less than 5 tons, or a cottage or agro-industry with fixed assets
of less than P 100,000 ($13,300). The Central Bank would endeavor to ensure
that at least $11 million of the proceeds of the loan would be made available
to beneficiaries in this target group (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement).
In addition, a separate project to help the Land Bank of the Philippines
design an effective lending program to reach land reform beneficiaries is
being discussed with the Government.
/1 Project Performance Audit Report: Philippines Second Rural Credit Project,
August 18, 1976, p. 16.



- 11 -
37.       The financing of four-wheel tractors accounted for a much larger
percentage of lending under the previous projects than was foreseen during
appraisals. Among the reasons for this were strong demand from medium and
relatively large farmers, the attractiveness of tractors as collateral, a
well organized dealer network, and the scarcity of technical assistance needed
to support other types of sub-projects. Although there is a general concern
that mechanization may lead to a displacement of unskilled labor, the evidence
presently available suggests that mechanization in the Philippines has
actually increased labor requirements by facilitating double cropping and
expansion in the area under cultivation. The Operations Evaluation Report on
the second project noted that, "The World Bank's project has not resulted in
any significant labor displacement and has enabled large numbers of farmers
to increase the productivity of their labor."Ll Moroever, the report noted
that the common practice in the Philippines of using tractors for custom hire
services, usually for smaller farmers, has spread the benefits of tractor
investments to large numbers of rural people. Nonetheless, the effect of
mechanization on rural employment and the most appropriate type of mechaniza-
tion in the Philippines have not yet been fully studied and more information
is needed on this subject as a basis for future government policy.
38.       The proposed project has been designed to assist the Government and
the Central Bank to develop policies with respect to farm mechanization. It
has been agreed that the Central Bank would submit a preliminary draft of a
study on farm mechanization to the Bank for comment not later than December
31, 1979 (see Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement). This study would be pre-
pared by the Central Bank with the assistance of consultants to be financed
under the proposed loan with qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement). In
order to ensure that adequate attention is given to other components of the
project, the amount of the loan used for tractor financing would be limited
to $16.5 million. Under the Third Project, tractor financing was limited to
tractors of 80 h.p. or less. But this limit did not slow the trend towards
purchase of larger horsepower tractors in the Philippines which has resulted
in excess power and reduced cost effectiveness of tractor investments,
particularly in rice and corn areas. The ceiling would be therefore further
reduced to 68 h.p. within 18 months of the signing of the of the Loan Agree-
ment, or after the financing of the first 1,000 units of more than 68 h.p.,
whichever comes first; not more than 450 of these units would be for use on
sugar farms (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
39.       Four-wheel tractor and imported tiller prices have increased rapidly
in recent years. While this is partly a result of additional manufacturing
costs in the countries of origin, it also reflects inadequate price competi-
tion and very high dealer margins which have been passed on in the form of
high costs to farmers. The cost of imported power tillers to farmers has also
been very high in relation to their contribution to increasing productivity.
Factors contributing to high machinery prices have been the Central Bank's
ceiling price policy which has allowed for relatively high prices, quite
often a close relationship between rural Bank shareholders and local agricul-
tural machinery dealers and inadequate supervision of machinery procured
under the Bank-financed rural credit projects.
/I Op. cit. p.76.



- 12 -
40.       In order to ensure more appropriate pricing of the tractors and
imported power tillers financed under the project, the Central Bank has
lowered the ceiling prices on these items provided for under its price guide-
lines. The revised guidelines are expected to result in a reduction of about
11% in retail prices of tractors and about 15% in the retail price of
imported tillers. For contracts of more than FL 10,000 ($1,340), subborrowers
would also be required to obtain three price quotations before making purchases
under the project, which should help to reduce costs (see para. 49 of this
report). The work of the Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and
Standardization Project, which is included in the project, would also assist
farmers in selecting farm machinery which is most appropriate to their needs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.       The project design takes into account the lessons learned from the
previous rural credit projects and has been carefully defined to assist the
Government in achieving its longer term objectives of improving the country's
agricultural credit system, increasing production, and providing for more
equal income distribution in rural areas. The proposed project would provide
medium and long-term credit to about 15,000 farmers and rural entrepreneurs
through qualified rural banks and savings and loan associations.
42.        The project was prepared by the Central Bank of the Philippines.
It was appraised in May/June 1976 and negotiations were held in February 1977.
The leader of the Government negotiating team was His Excellency, Eduardo Z.
Romualdez, the Philippines' ambassador to the United States. The Appraisal
Report (No. 1415a-PH) on the project is being criculated separately to the
Executive Directors. Annex III of this report contains a loan and project
summary and Annex IV contains a supplementary project data sheet.
Project Description
43.        The project would include the following:
(a) Farm Mechanization. This category would finance about 1,775 trac-
tors with implements, 240 additional implement packages, 7,800 power tillers,
400 small irrigation units, 600 portable threshers, and a small amount for
other items such as back-pack sprayers.
(b)  Transportation.  About 400 light trucks would be financed, which
would be owned by small entrepreneurs and used mainly by farmers to market
produce and to transport inputs to their farms. The financing of heavy and
medium trucks would not be continued under this project because other sources
of financing are available.



- 13 -
(c) Cottage and Agro-4ndustries. This category would include about
225 sub-projects over a wide range of subsectors, such as rice milling, farm
implement manufacturing, woodworking, handicrafts and concrete products.
These investments would provide off-farm employment opportunities and would
also enable rural banks to diversify their portfolios.
(d) Coastal and Inland Fisheries. This category would include about 45
small coastal fishing boats and 1,200 inland fishponds and fishpens covering a
total area of about 6,000 ha. The maximum size of boat eligible would be 40
gross tons, and the average size of fishponds and fishpens would be 5 ha.
(e) Small-Scale Livestock Development. About 3,240 small-scale poultry.,
pig and cattle breeding and fattening sub-projects would be financed to
provide for the construction of pens, sheds, and purchase of initial stock,
feed and other inputs.
(f) A Study of Farm Mechanization. The study, which would be undertaken
by the Central Bank, would assess the financial, social and economic impact of
farm mechanization in the Philippines.
(g) An Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization
Project (AMTESP). A unit would be established at the University of the
Philippines at Los Banos to set performance and quality standards for agri-
cultural machinery, and to test various makes of machinery against these
standards.
(h) Training. The project would augment the ongoing training program
of the Central Bank for its own staff and staff of rural banks and SSLAs.
This component would also finance courses on evaluation of cottage and agro-
industry projects, and on-farm budgeting and planning. In addition, a Credit
Handbook would be prepared for use by the staff of the Central Bank, rural
banks and SSLA.
(i) Service Vehicles. The project would also finance about 60 vehicles
to meet the growing needs of CB field staff, which has more than doubled in
number since 61 units were financed under the second project in 1969.
Project Execution and Institutional Objectives
44.       As under the previous three projects, the Central Bank through its
Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loans Associations (DRBSLA),would
administer the credit program financed under the project. The DRBSLA, has a
staff of 700, and is well managed by a Director and an Associate Director
assisted by three Assistant Directors, each responsible for lending in a
major region of the country. Each Assistant Director is responsible for the
Agricultural Credit Supervisors and Loan Teams working in his region. Support
functions are separately managed. The Technical Support and Evaluation Unit,
established under the Third Project, is a separate group in the Office of the
Director which carries out monitoring and technical support work for all of
the Central Bank's rural credit programs. It has functioned well to date.
It is the intention of the DRBSLA to decentralize its operations to the
regional offices of the Central Bank to expedite loan processing and improve
the supervision of accounts of the rural banks. Also, the regional loan



- 14 -
teams will be upgraded gradually to provide program management and technical
advice to the rural banks instead of the present direct involvement in
subloan applications. Concurrently, selected qualified rural banks would
begin to undertake their own subloan appraisals. The banks would be selected
by the Director, DRBSLA on a case by case basis taking into account the
management capbility and project evaluation and supervision capability of
each rural bank to be considered for selection. Approval authority for
specific types of subloans would be subject to technical support and post-
appraisal audit by the loan teams (see Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
45.       The Technical Support and Evaluation Unit, in addition to its normal
monitoring and technical support work, would monitor progress in lending to
smaller beneficiaries and in improving the geographical distribution of
lending (see Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement). The Central Bank also
plans to establish by December 31, 1977 a Management Advisory Unit (MAU) to
provide special assistance to rural banks in areas of management where
weaknesses are critical or widespread, such as cash management, sub-loan
supervision, collection procedures, and deposit solicitation (see Section
3.08 of the Loan Agreement). The MAU, with a staff of about twelve, would be
headed by an Assistant Director who would report to the Director, DRBSLA.
The Central Bank also plans to prepare a training manual for field staff of
the Central Bank and of participating lending institutions with the assistance
of consultants whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement);
a preliminary draft of the manual would be submitted to the Bank for comment
not later than March 31, 1978 (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
46.       The Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization
Project would be established not later than March 31, 1978 at the University
of the Philippines at Los Banos in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and the
Government would send draft plans and specifications for the Project to the
Bank for approval not later than October 31, 1977 (Section 3.03 of the
Guarantee Agreement). The project would be operated as a distinct unit
of the Department of Agricultural Engineering of the University of the
Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB). It would be governed by an advisory council
consisting of the representatives of the University of the Philippines at Los
Banos, the Department of Agriculture, other relevant Government agencies,
the International Rice Research Institute and the Agricultural Machinery
Dealers Association. The Project would be managed by the University of the
Philippines at Los Banos, which would appoint a full time director from its
Department of Agriculture Engineering.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be $91.3 million with
an estimated foreign exchange cost of $29.4 million. The cost estimates
include price contingencies amounting to 13.7% of the base cost estimate to
take into acount the effects of expected international and domestic price
increases. The cost estimates also provide for 14 man-years of local consul-
tant services for the farm mechanization study and the preparation of the
credit manual with an average man-month cost of about $4,000. The proposed



- 15 -
loan would finance $36.5 million, or 40% of the total project cost, including
$7.1 million of local costs. The justification for local cost financing in
the Philippines is set out in para. 16. The Central Bank would finance
another 40% of the total cost, the beneficiaries 10%, and the participating
rural banks and SSLAs 10%.
48.       The proposed loan would be made to the Central Bank and would have
a term of 15 years, including a grace period of 4.5 years, and an interest
rate of 8.5% per annum. The Central Bank would relend the equivalent
of $35.7 million of the proceeds of the loan and an equivalent amount of its
own resources to qualified rural banks and SSLAs in the form of special time
deposits at an interest rate of 9% per annum. However, the portion of the
proceeds which would be used for sub-loans to land reform beneficiaries
would be relent to the same institutions at an interest rate of 7% per
annum./l Repayment to the Central Bank would substantially reflect the
aggregate of the repayment schedules of subloans made by the rural banks
and SSLAs. The participating institutions would relend the funds to ultimate
beneficiaries at 14% per annum except to land reform beneficiaries who would
pay an interest rate of 12% per annum. Sub-loan repayment terms would vary
from three to ten years depending upon the purpose and include an appropriate
grace period. The 5% spread retained by the participating institutions is
considered reasonable in view of the high administrative costs and relatively
high risks associated with small, term loans. Sub-loans would be committed
over three years and disbursed over three and a half years. The terms and
conditions under which project funds would be disbursed are set out in the
Central Bank's Rules and Regulations governing this program; they provide for
eligibility criteria for participation of the rural banks and SSLAs in the
project, the categories of investment to be financed, the terms and conditions
of subloans and procedures for loan processing. Any changes in these Rules
would be subject to prior approval by the Bank (Section 5.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The proceeds of the loan to be used for the Agricultural
Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project ($300,000) would be
passed on by the Central Bank to the Department of Agriculture on the basis
of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, to help finance construction and to
equip the unit (See Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.05
of the Guarantee Agreement). The balance of the cost of the unit would be
met by the Department of Agriculture. The balance of $500,000 of the loan
would be retained by the Central Bank to help finance the cost of vehicles,
training and the studies included in the project. The Central Bank would
bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.
Procurement
49.       As in the Third Project and as is customary in rural credit projects,
machinery, equipment and civil works needed for subprojects would be procured
through normal commercial channels from local or foreign firms represented in
the Philippines. Equipment and machinery firms are located throughout the
LI For the same reasons noted in para. 36, a relatively small amount of the
proceeds of the loan (less than 5% of the total loan amount) is likely to
be used for sub-loans to land reform beneficiaries.



- 16 -
Philippines, and service and repair facilities are satisfactory. There
are also a large number of construction firms in the Philippines and
there would be adequate competition for civil works contracts for boats,
buildings and other minor works. Procurement of equipment, materials
and civil works under subprojects would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding because of the small size of each contract and bulk-
ing of contracts would not be practicable because they would be widely dis-
persed geographically and phased over time. The Central Bank would ensure
that at least three price quotations are obtained for contracts in excess of
P10,000 ($1,340), except in remote areas where suppliers are not well repre-
sented, in which case a certified statement to that effect would be required
from the participating institution. Procurement of service vehicles by the
Central Bank ($400,000) and of equipment and civil works contracts of more
than $20,000 for the Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standar-
dization Project ($500,000) would be through competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with Government procedures, which are acceptable to the
Bank. Foreign vehicle manufacturers are well represented in the Philippines
and they would be eligible to participate provided that they could provide
satisfactory repair facilities and after-sales service. Items of less than
$20,000 for the testing and evaluation project would be procured through the
Government's normal procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements
50.       The proposed loan would be disbursed to the Central Bank for 45% of
the amount of subloans to be made by rural banks and SSLAs against certified
statements of expenditures. For service vehicles, the Bank would disburse
100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported vehicles, 100% of the ex-factory
cost of domestically manufactured vehicles or 40% of the retail price of
imported vehicles procured locally. In addition, the Bank would disburse
100% of foreign expenditures or 40% of the total costs of consultant services
and training and 66% of the cost of civil works and equipment contracts for
the Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project.
Documentation of disbursements certified by Central Bank loan officers would
be retained on file at the Central Bank or a designated local depository for
inspection by Bank staff in the course of project supervision.
Economic Justification and Project Risks
51.       Investments under the project would result in substantial increases
in the production of a number of agricultural commodities, principally rice
but also corn, sugar, poultry, pork, beef and fish products. These would help
to generate additional income for small farmers and to improve nutritional
standards in the rural areas. Investments in cottage and agro-industries
would expand production of a range of small capital and consumer goods for
domestic and export markets, while transport and farm machinery investments
would provide needed services in rural areas. The value of annual incremental
production generated by the project at full development is estimated to be
about $50 million. Financial rates of return on subproject investments range
from 13% to over 100% on components other than power tillers. The financial
return for power tillers is 8%, but this does not take into account the



- 17 -
benefits they provide in the form of higher reliability and more certain land
preparation capability in comparison to draft animals. The rates of return
on fixed assets for poultry, cattle and cottage and agro-industry subprojects
are relatively high but net cash flows are reasonable when viewed in terms of
capital at risk and the labor input of the entrepreneur. The overall weighted
average economic rate of return for the project is estimated to be 21%. An
increase in operating costs of 10% would reduce the economic rate of return
to 16%. The economic rates of return on individual components of the project
are slightly higher than the financial rates of return because duties and
taxes are netted out of initial investment costs while no other price adjust-
ments were considered appropriate.
52.       Investments financed by the project are estimated to create about
10,600 jobs directly as well as substantial additional indirect employment.
The great majority of these would be unskilled jobs and therefore available
to the lowest income groups in rural areas. The project would result in net
foreign exchange savings of about $9 million a year.
53.       The project has been designed to ensure insofar as possible that a
substantial proportion of the benefits accrue to smaller borrowers. The esti-
imated total annual incremental income accruing to the approximately 10,000
smaller farmers would be $7.2 million per year at full development, or an
average of $725 per borrower. In addition, the majority of the 310,000 ha
per year of custom hire services generated as a result of the project would
be rendered on farms of less than 7 ha.
54.       Since this would be the fourth in a series of projects implemented
by the Central Bank and the rural banks, and the second in which SSLAs have
participated, we do not envisage any procedural difficulties in project
implementation. However, realization of the objectives of the project will
depend on strong efforts on the part of project institutions to increase
their effectiveness in assisting smaller borrowers, improve subloan appraisal
and supervision capability and strengthen collection performance. The
Government and the Central Bank have agreed to take the necessary steps to
make rural credit policies and programs more effective and responsive to
needs, but continuing commitment and effort will be essential to ensure the
full success of the project. Bank staff will monitor developments closely in
forthcoming supervision missions and assist in making any policy or program
adjustments, which the Government decides are required.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Central Bank of the
Philippines, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the Philip-
pines and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of
a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of particular interest are referred to in paras. 35, 36, 38, 40, 44, 45, 46
and 48 of this report.



- 18 -
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
March 24, 1977



TAILCIA                                        h    ith pe
PNllpPlNCs         - SOCIAL lNDICATORS DATA ISNET
LAND AREA ITHOU tH2)                 ..     . -      -        -        -       - ......................................
----'--------- -                                PNILIpPINES                         REFRENCC CouNTRIEs t(It?*
TOTAL      300.0                                      OUST RECENT.
AGRIc.      116.3                      1960      19t0   ESTINATE           )NAILAN0      TURREYT         HCREA.. V
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ......._.. __... __ ......... . .._ ........      _.... _
BR? PER CAP?IA cUSs)                    t*@.@      230.0     310.0              210.0      40.0        270.0
,,,,,,.,,._.___.....
POPULATION AD VITAL STATISIICS
POPULATION (NIO-fR. MILLION)           27.4.     36.9      4Z.5                36.3        35.7       31.4
POPULATION OEh9SIIY
PER SOUARE xN.                       91.0     123.0      1*2.0               71.0       46.0       319.0
PER 50. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          .      219.6      326.0a                ,,       67.0      1320.0
VIT4L STATISTICS
AVERAGE GIRTH RATE (JTHOU)           45.1      44.2       43.-               44.3       40.6        35.0
AVERAGE DEATH RATE ITHOU)            11.9      13.2       10.5               IS.t       14.4        11.4
INFANT NORIALITY RATE (THOUI           ..      60.0       68.0 j             60.0      145.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT GIRTH (TRS)       49.4      55.6       51.4               55.5       54.4        57.7
U.0SS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.54      3.3        3.3                1.2        2.6eiaa     Z.6
POPULATION GROWTH RAtE C1Z
TOTAL                                3.0        3.0        2.9                3.1        2-5         2.3
URBAN                                 4.0       4.0        4.0                4.9         4.2        6.4
URBAN POPULATION (z of TorAL)          Z5.5      21.4       f9.0               is 0        31.2       41.z
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENTI
0 TO 14 TEARS                       4s.7      45.6       Ii.0               *5:41.0    41.6        42.i
15 lo 64 WEARS                      51.6       51.6       s.0                52.0       13.9        54.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                    Z.r        2.8        2.0 I3.0                      4.3         3.3
AGE OEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9       0.9        0.9                0.9        0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPEhOENCI RATIO               13-       1.5        t.415              1.1         1.1        1.4
FAtILT PLANNIhG
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     354.0     2872.5              470.0
USERS (I OF NARRICD WOMEN)             .        2.0       19.0               10.0        6.2        42.0
EMPLOOYMENT
.... d ---
TOTATL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAMo)       10100.0   12300.0    4200.0            14100.0    14500.015   10400.0
LABOR FORCE IH AGRICULTURE (Z)         61.0,     55.0j      56.0 a             79-         67.0       50.53/
UNEAPLOYCO (Z OF LABOR FORCE)           6.0       r.0        4.0                 ..         I.o 0      5.0
INCOME DISTALUrTION
.  ._ - - - ----- - -
Z UF PRIVATE INCOME REC'O RY-
HIGHEST  5? OF HUUSEHOLOS*           20.8        ..       24.615               ..       32.82       17.I
HIGHEST 201 Of HOUSEHOLDS            56.Z        ..       54.0                                         I ..  60.615
LOWEST  20X Of HOUSEHOLDS             4.2        ..        3.95                *-        2.9          .
LOWEST  III Of HOUSEHOLDS            31.9        ,.,      11.9                 *-        9.4j       17.7
Oi.TTIAUTION OF LARD OWNERSHIP
_ * --_------ --_----*- -- ---_
Z UWALD By rUP 101 OF OWNERS             ..        ..         ..                 .-       5sC         20.0
I OWRED dY SNALLEST 10 OWNERS           ..        ..         ..                 ..         0.9        2.0
HEALrH AND HUTRITlUN
POPULATION PER PhiYSICIAH                ..        .      3220.0 is          797.       Z220.0      2210.0&S
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            .,        ,,     2000.01Z           6650.0     1"O.O.    I760.0
POPULATION PER HOSPIIAL BEO         3100.0        0.0         ..               50.0       490.0     1920.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)         63.0     10O.0       0.0 I             105.0      110.0       103.0
PRUTEIN (GRAMS PER Oty)             *4.0       45.0       4r.o               52.0       is.o        65.0
'0F WHICH ANIMAL AthO PUL,E        19.04/    22.0         *-               1.0 1      22.        19.0
DEATH RAAT  ('THOU) AGES 1-I            9.0 a,    9.0        9.3                 ..        1.
EDUcATION
ADAS3ED ENROLLNENT RATIO
PRINARY SCHOOL                       91.0/4   106.OA     110.0 /  ,          62.0 a     11.1 01&   104.0
SECONOART SCHOOL                     26.0I5 46.0a          46.0              16.0       26.0        41.0
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDEO
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0      10.0       10.0               12.0       11.0        12.0
VOC4TIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONOARn                     14.0        6.05      9.0               14.01      14.0        16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (3)                  ..        ..       t2.01              79.0       5S.90a      67.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               ..        2.1        ..                 ..         1.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUI
PIPED WATER (1)                  _  60.0       76.0         *-                 *-       64.0        00.015
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
tS OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 17.0      13. 0        *-                 *-       41.0        50.0
RUAtL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELCCTRICITY (1)                     ..       r.o         .,                 ..       as.@        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIU RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         2Z.0       45.0      45.0               76.0        89.0       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0       8.0        9.0                5.0-        *.e        2.e
ELCCrRICITY (KWH/TR PEN CAP)          100.4     235.0      315.0              124.0       241.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/TR PER CAP)               1.1        2.0       3.5                1.0         0.?         3. S
...................................... ................................................. . ................
SEE ItDTES AND DEFINITION$ ON REVERSE



Valoso othavota noted, dat for 1960 rTefr to NW Yvew botone 1959 and 191, tow 1970 baetwm 1968 Sd 1970, end tor V.ot Iaoant bUrt.At betwoa
1973 and 1975.
s0 Norva ha. be-n selected a. an objcati. -atry ma th. boat. of Its ldls peglatiosa, locatim and lao-me lavl m, lAb. t1wo n&Ipas              It to
empoted to grvs0 apldly, In the caning pare.
pmmmmmot  ~ ~   ~       1950.55; &    bKtlo of populat.ion undr 15 and 65 and over to total labor fowoo; L. 196062; aj I962       t   7-12
and 13-16 Years of ago -reep.ti.olye fL lot inoloding 46Oational short-term aOiroo..*
IM    As percentage or .nployasst;  b   7-12 sad 13-1.6 ymaw  of ase maop.uilrel 4    lot inolvAdin  bRlute woto
ochoola or "neatioal abhort-tap. 004008.
NM 10T NThEATI IS 1972j &_ ht4o of Population undor 15 end 65 end over to total labor forte. Lt As peroatnteo of
Of aployneot;        91 a      lcanin    od4bvoop  /f 1969-71 vavrageo &g    7-12 and 13-16 years
of avO ropeotl.Y
zowa        IM     ~~~~ 1961-66i /b   7-13 end 1-18-l years of age reopootlvely;  Le Pablio schools obdch inoluda toctaloal edacatino at ihe
post-Sodoodary level.
-mI                            1oludas 1.7 05o1'at   prcyincoa; &  1965-47; LS  Ratio of populagtion undr 15 and 65 sod over to labor force 15
100z  and over;  1.4 15 yar   and o'er, 0wclndeo onanpicwdg  &g  Bagit.rord only; IL4 Moposabl tow.;       a   in-
cludl   aesiatant nurseo and odcdaoive  &  196J.-661 Z&  7-U. years of wge   U   Powoon  6 reuam old and ower who
toll the canoes takero tbey oa" read and write.
low, RV, or         l2IM       Am percentage or o.ploymt;    &   3sgateweds &    Ra-atared, i t all proottalog in the ocontrsy   Li  Watwr 96pod
US, Unvmber 3, 1.976
inrD,ZTIotS OF SOCIAL iDMICAtOR
LadArafthuh2)                                                        PonuloI n Perar oric earo      - Population dividad by sonhar of practicing
Total- totl sur ac rea cmpri.i.g laud ares and Inlood water,.            Osltan   f_al. graduate curse.,   trained" or  certtifled' -urose, sod
AmRic. - Mot racont oetiacts of giclrsi r.#ausd tcopoarily or                  euxili.ry porsena.1 with training or ..periente
pocranatly for rrnp., p.aturon, aarha  & kitchen garden. or to It.         Population por hoopital hed - Population dividad by s,aber of hoapital boe"
follow.                                                                      ,ai.eibie in public sod privato general and SP-c1o1ioed hoapits1 end
rehabilitation cantor.; ... Iudto amurelg hoeao sod .eteblisawnta for'
OIP ear o.rica fUSS) - UtI P pe caPitaccu-  o  at cu-etnrktc pric...            -rastdial ad prevenive cars.
caclae   byt  aos soceruien method as World Back ALI., (1973-75     Par caPnt. .uPcly of ca Cr     Z (7fa rsuuirou-ote)  t Captsd torn acor
bsoL.); 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                            aqtieaient of nct food oupplie. available in country per- c.pit. per day;
ovLilable supplies ,epri.. donestlo production, Importe loes export.,
=on1:t~ion and vital totaistic-e                                               tand changs in stock, not oupplies exciua anImAl food, .eeds, quanti-
PeuaIo .oid-yr. oillion  - As of Jely first: if not available.             tiie  wed in food proc-nsing ankd losesa in distribution; req.irenanta
aeara0ea of tMO and-year oais.;1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                     var0 oaticatod by PA0 booed -n phyoIioigitul needs for o-nI activity
end beebth considering  -vlrotmmra~l teoperacrer, body -aighre, ago sod
P  tolaio denity -  e scarse     M id-year popuistien par equar kfio-       *ax distributions of population, ad al11swing 101 for oaata at hmowo-
"Mear (100 toecree)!of rtor ares                                              bold level.
Pnoultion densit - P.r osu.re he of c     ir.led - Computed a.  -abo for     Per capita Supply of protein (crrena par dayr) - frtetin contat of per
agicultura  lan  only.                                                      capti, Met supply of food per day; not .upply of fend to datfiod s
abov; requir-anta for    il countries oa t.bli.had by USDA tEcounoc
Via St    tioi                                                                  Research So-I... provide for a nietas   loocoof 60 gr-n of teta1
Cuebrhrte  . hnsd-dueIlv             iteprtoon           fmd             protein per day, and 20 gram  Of animall sod pulse protein, of which
year poplation; tee-year arithe,rtic avor-aga  ending in 1960 and 1970,       10 gr-n should be animal prtoten; those standard. are lasr thou thosa
and ftv.-y..r .-verageedicg in 1975 for meat tacsot  etinate.                of 75 grac of total protein and 23 gram   of saim-l protein so an
Cr=4d,dath rate o    housand - Annual deaths per thonaad of mid-ear             ev-rae for the world, propoads by PAO in tho Third World.So.4-V~rvey.
pplto;ten- yo  -rt   ,io uvnragea ending in 1960 and 1970, end       Pe aiareacecorfo               nnad nul., - Pr-tin supply of fend
f'-arargs- eding in 1975 for near -eron  estiat..                     derived fron animal an    usa   nfra     erd
infat ortai(~r(g(rl,e,~- A..-) deasths  f infate,,eo one-   enLof     Marik .T.u...ha..saj        -Aanual deatha par thousand in aea ,rop
,,age per thouanmd live birtha.                                                1-4 years, to children in th1. age group; suggostd ca an indicator of
Lfo oxotae      t birth (yr.) - A-ver.age ,he  of years of life rssining       Inaut,rition.
at birth; ....aIly fiv-yesr svor.gea ending in 1960, 1970 ad 1975 for
deemlOPing   -rortieo.                                                      fld-tion
Green reproduction rate - Average .sbor of liv- daughter,s     a will         Adjusteld enrliman rtio h-_primr   chool - gEroimet of .il ages a
hear in her ..-Ia reprodu-tivo period If she.xeine       p-rtn ago-           procgofP      rIay    ceI-ag    poPulation, includes children aged
,perific fetility ratee; nasally fire-year .-orag.e coding in 1960,           6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary sdue..tto.;
1970 end 1975 for da-liping countries,                                       for countries with univ-rsl education, onr.llwat nay ac.cd 1001
Pppul.tie, goasth rate I'l )    - t   "t"l  - CIyudana grm,th rare, of aid-    oms eOac pupil.oare balow or abom the official ached     age.
yerppltion for 195-60. 19610-70, and 11970-75.                        Adusted enrolaent ratio - secondary thoul - Cnputad ag abo;
Powuleti,on gr:Oyth rate Ill) - crha - Conputed like grouth reto of t.oal      sec-ondry ed ..atto  requires at least four yearn Of approved prima-y
PoPulation; different dfitliioaa of urban ore.e nAy affect conpara-           imatructlon; Provides generol, vocetioacl or teacher traiing
biliry of data -nSg tount,e,.                                                 inrt-ctiona for pupils of 12 to 17 yesro of ege; corr.opondenra
theeouplatc.nft  f total) b- Ratio of urban te total ppul.tion;           cour-e  era geserslly oacluded.
dfret    flaefinit _ 5uran aresa nay effect c-parability of dama        Tears of ..hnikn Wroided frirt and -eted I.-I) - ToItl yPars of
anong oeontries.                                          s~~~~~~~~~~chooling; at ocondary level, vocational icxtrtctio  nay he par-
ALte etructure foprc.at) - Children (0-14 year.), working-ag. (15-64 years) *   tilly or -onIetoy exclded.
ad ret~i.r.ed4(65 years and ovr) an perceutagee of mid-year popul.tlon.      Vocational -nrlnrt ft of aecndry        Vcationa   institutione
Ax eednyratic -* tato of Ppoplation under 15 and 65 and over to         include techeicl,. iaduotrial or other prograc which eperata
thoee of ages IS through 64.                                                  ndapuedently Or sodprtuar.ta of . aecndry Institutions.
EcoM`nIt dennocorto        - Ratio of Population ucd.r.1S and 65 and ovr      Aul ies,,rt        (1) - Literate adelt  (able en roed and e-it.) at
to the lIabo  fre  i  g  group of 15-64 yer.Ieetaeo                                         oa   adult POPulation aged 15 years and over.
Pa-il, Powing-cceptor' fc,sulti-o. thou) - Cunultive nonr of
acceptors of birth-control d-vice  under .uapie.. ef national fally         f0isualn
plain   presra ai.a incption.                                              Persona p.r roon fvreee) - Aveersge mubhr of person   per row  in
PaIInily eanni   -  Mmr C. of earneod esonn) -Pe.rcetsgaa Of nrried             occepied  onvetional dwelling, in urhes area; dwellns .-Ilade
Moena of child bear ing ugc (15-44 year.) uhoea birth-cotrol devices          non-pevnt structures -4d nocrupied Part..
to all narrid wco in ea~c age group.                                       Oncunind g_eli!tes without nined Crer Ill - OIcespid conaventionl
Ml m  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~~~~sLong. in ubaan             rua   areas without inaide or outeida piped
water facilitie. s enPercotogevf all occepied dwelling..
Tetl abr ore thousand-) O- tonncally active persona , Including         Arcase to alect,icit (S  fal   ul    In    - Conventiona  dwellings
aemd focsad,tnlydbt excludingt hmse,ivon, stdenta, etc.;                     wihamtricy In.l.vin          qutr      aaPercent of total demilings in
d6finitions in -riouss cca,triea are not capar.bim.                          uban. an   _rurlaes
Labor terra in 4Ari.ulos,r. (S.) - Agricultu..al labor force (in forming,    Rural duellinRs connected to . crct      t      optda      bv    o
fo ty uting and fhishn) as percenag   of tota  labr force,             mrura  delling, only.
=nep     d'ad ftOf labor force  - Unnplord aro us .l deind as persona
who arm able end willing to take a Job, out of a Jeb on a SI_e day,         Conoantio
r.,.iad our af a Job, and .e.iking werk for a specifIed minLa   period     Rodin receiver fear thou eop) - All types of rcirefor radio bo.od-
not exceeding oaa web; maoy not ha roParable between neestrLas dun to        roeta to gonr1 public p.r thouumad of pogl.etlon:    elns
different deftfot Omca ofunplyed and onarce Of data, agS., -pi".~            unlic.amad receive-rs in co-trlan add in Pacte wh.n ragi.tratin at
ant office ettetietie, saplo survays, copuloory unaeployrent inaurscc.        radio s.re wee in effect; data for r-ct years may not he ncoparable
eic  oL contris    ebo1iehed Liceeing.
I[cons distribution ; porcatg. otf private intone (both in c.h sand bind)    Po.aca ar ie         te,POP) - Passenge T dra Cnprise   tmto tare
received by richeo  IS%, rIchest 201, poorest 701, s.d poorest 401 of        noeting I... then eight porcona  1nlde      s bulan..., hearses an d
households.                                                                  military v-hiclee.S
Ilenrtlt ~bh/y pr top) - Aecua1 conamaptlon of indusatrial, co-
biatribution of leed onerei t- Pernonags    of land Owned by wealthiest        mercial, publMihc an .rvt al.ctrictry in kilowaatt hour. Pee ospite,
11and poret 101 of land Ouver..                                            generally based on production dete  without slovance tcr loo.ea In
grid but ellwo.ig for ImPorts end enports Of electricity.
tcsolth ed Nutrition                                                                LOmeiT (b/rPar  -P)~ - Per caPits annual eonaption to'kilogro-n
"o,Lito I.r PhYsicien *Pop.laciom divided by n,bet of ptectieing              estL.atad fron d-stic poductio     pius net imports of cowepriat.
phiyeiclaa qualified froon a medcal School at soltereity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US$ million        X              1965-70   1970-75    1976
GNP at Market Prices                     17,515      100.0               5.7       6.3       6.3
Gross Domestic Investment                 5,408       30.9               1.6       3.7       3.7
Gross National Saving                     4,382       25.0               3.6      -2.0      -2.0
Current Account Balance                  -1,026       -5.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                     3,105       17.7               4.5      17.2      17.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                     4,201       24.0               7.2       0.0       0.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                   Labor Force            V.A. per worker
US$ million        %            Million       X             US$        X
Agriculture                          4,606       29.0              7.8     51.6              591     56,2
Industry                            5,323        33.5              2.2     14.6            2,420    230.0
Services                            5,961        37.5              4.5     29.8            1,325    126.0
Unemployed                                                         0.6      4.0           __.       _  .
Total/Average                     15,890      100.0             15.1    100.0            1,052    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                        Central Government
(Million)          % of GDP           (Pesos million)         % of GDP
197         197       196 -7               1975         1975       1973-75
Current Receipts                 ..          ..        ..              16,838          14.6       14.0
Current Expenditure                                    ..              14,773          12.8       11.0
Current Surplus                  ..          ..        ..               2,065           1.8        3.0
Capital Expenditures             ..          ..        ..               3,425           3.0        2.8
External Assistance (net)       ..           ..        ..                 287          0.2         0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1970       1971      1972      1973       1974      1975
(Million Pesos Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                          9,001     10,325    11,872    14,021     16,773    19,254
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   3,263     3,087      2,994     2,860      3,462     6,296
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  8,442     9,688     11,646    15,464     23,098    26,977
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               22.1       20.4      20.9      19.6       16.8      16.7
General Price Index (1965 = 100)               137.7     159.3      175.4     218.4      337.5     364.8
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                             23.6       15.7      10.0      24.6       54.5       8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    -2.4      -5.4       -3.0      -4.5       21.0     181.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   17.2      14.8       20.2      32.8       49.4      16.8
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
Not available.
Not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975     1976                                       US$ million       Z
(USS million)
Exports of Goods, NFS               3,357   2,954   3,105        Coconut Products                    539          21.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              3,782    4.036   4,201        Sugar Products                      607          24.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)           -425  -1,082  -1,096        Forest Products                      289         11.6
Mineral Products                     437          17.5
Interest Payments (net)               -55    -110    -161        Fruits & Other Agric. Products      119           4.7
Workers' Remittances                           72      106       Other Manufactures                  511          20.4
Other Factor Payments (net)                  -121    -118          Total                           2,502         100.0
Net Transfers                         271     318     243
Balance on Current Account           -210    -923  -1,026
Direct Foreign Investment              59     125      94      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975 /e
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                       402     677     883                                                  USS million
Amortization                        339     320     355
Subtotal                          63      357     528       Public Debt, including Guaranteed              1,554
Capital Grants                                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   1,417
Other Capital (net) /a                373     547     581        Total Outstanding and Disbursed               2,971
Other Items n.e.i. /b                   4    -182    -109
Increase in Reserves (+)              289     -76      68      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975 /f
Gross Reserves (end year) /c        1,978   1,360    1,640                                                       %
Inter. Reserves (end year) /d       1,165   1,089    1,157
Public Debt, including Guaranteed              7.7
Non-Guranteed Private Debt                     8.9
Fuel and Related Materials                                       Total Outstanding and Disbursed               16.6
Imports of Goods, NFS               3,782   4,036   4,201
of which:   Petroleum               653     710     800      IBRD/IDA LENDING, February 28 , 1977 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      IBRD         IDA
1965-69         1970-71
Outstanding and Disbursed          319.2       27.0
US$ 1.00 = Ps.           3.92            6.43                    Undisbursed                        606.3        5.2
Ps. 1.00 = US$           0.26            0.16                    Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed    92552
April 1972-July 1975        Since July 1975
US$ 1.00 = Ps. 6.78         US$ 1.00 = Ps. 7.5
Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.15         Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.133
/a Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities and use of IMF credit.
/b Errors and omissions.
/c Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/d Gross reserves of Central Bank plus net reserves of commercial banks.
/e Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/f Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of February 28, 1977 /1
Loan or
Credit                                                    Amounts (US$ millions)
Number     Year      Borrower         Purpose           Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and one credit fully disbursed          196.5    10.0
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines     Irrigation         34.0              0.8
720-PH    1971                       Rice Processing
of            and Storage      14.3              7.5
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation     Power              22.0              8.3
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines     Education II               12.7      4.9
891-PH    1973           "           Fisheries         11.6               5.7
939-PH    1973           "           Ports              6.1               5.1
950-PH    1973           "           Highway II        68.0             28.2
472-PH    1974                       Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation                9.5      0.3
984-PH    1974                       Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation       9.5               8.7
998-PH    1974           "           DFC-DBP I         50.0              12.3
1010-PH    1974                       Third Rural
Credit          22.0               0.0
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation     Power              61.0             37.7
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines     Population         25.0             23.6
1048-PH    1974          "            Shipping          20.0              18.2
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                30.0             24.0
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the    Tarlac
Philippines       Irrigation       17.0             15.9
1102-PH    1975                       Rural
Development      25.0             24.6
1120-PH    1975                       Small and Medium
Industries      30.0              13.4
1154-PH    1976                       Magat
Irrigation      42.0              41.1
1190-PH    1976           "           DFC-DBP II        75.0              75.0
1224-T-PH  1976          "            Education III     25.0             22.8
1225-PH    1976           "           Livestock II      20.5              17.9
1227-PH    1976           "           Chico Irrigation  50.0             50.0
1272-T-PH  1976                       Manila Urban      10.0              10.0
1282-PH    1976          "            Manila Urban      22.0              22.0
1269-PH    1976                       Second Grain
Processing       11.5             11.5
1270-PH    1976           "           Second Fisheries  12.0              12.0
1353-PH /2 1977           "           Third Highways    95.0              95.0
1367-PH /2 1977                       Jalaur Irrigation 15.0              15.0
Total                                        1.020.0    32.2     611.5
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                      92.9       -
Total now outstanding                          927.1    32.2
Amount sold                      14.2
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                12.6            1.6       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                925.5    32.2
Total undisbursed                              606.3     5.2     611.5
/L A loan of $25 million for a fourth education project was approved by the
Executive Directors on March 1, 1977, but is not yet signed.
/2 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of February 28, 1977
Fiscal                                                   Amounts ($ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                              15.0     4.4     19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                     8.0       -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                -     4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone company                         4.5       -      4.5
1970 & 1972 Mariwasa Manufacturing Inc.                  0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of
the Philippines                             -     2.2      2.2
1971         Philippine Petroleum Corporation            6.2     1.8      8.0
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                              15.0       -     15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation              1.9     0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation       1.5       -      1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5     0.5      2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation            1.2       -      1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                               7.0       -      7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                  2.6     0.2      2.8
Total gross commitments                    65.2    13.8     79.0
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                      19.4     7.2     26.6
Total commitments now held by IFC          45.8     6.6     52.4
Undisbursed                                 1.9       -      1.9



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 637    Upper Pampanga River Irrigation: $34.0 Million Loan of
August 18, 1960: Date of Effectiveness: October 15. 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area. The
project's on-farm development scheme is settirkg a pattern for future irriga-
tion development in the country. Despite some delays caused by the 1972
floods, the dam was commissioned on September 7, 1974 ahead of schedule.
Most of the work has been completed and the Loan is expected to be entirely
disbursed by the Closing Date. The Closing Date was postponed to allow dis-
bursement for the foreign exchange costs of the communications system which
is scheduled for completion in April 1977. Project costs have increased 40%
over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation, the
effects of successive devaluations of the peso, and design changes in the
dam (which accounted for nearly half the increase in costs). The increase
in costs is being financed by the Government. However, as a result of the
close coordination established between irrigation and agricultural support
services, the project is expected to reach full development in 7 years after
completion of construction, instead of 13 years which was the appraisal
estimate. Also, nearly 7,000 ha have been added to the project, mostly by
including lands which were formerly under a private irrigation system.
Finally, there has been a considerable increase in the projected world market
price of rice. As a result the estimated rate of return is now higher than
at appraisal.
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of-new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
However, because of long construction period required for the large subprojects,
full disbursement will be delayed by about two years and the Closing Date may
be postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million
Credit No. 296  Credit of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness
July 1, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily, and the unit is expected to be commissioned before the end of
1976. The erection of transmission lines has been somewhat delayed due to
unfavorable weather and poor soil conditions and is now expected to be
completed in April 1977. A tariff increase was approved in October 1976.
However, it was too late for NPC to achieve the expected rate of return of 8%
on its net fixed assets in operation in 1976.
Credit No. 471 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984     $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Although there has been some delay in constructing the two diversion
dams because of the need for more extensive foundations and abutment area
grouting than originally expected, most difficulties have been overcome and
the work is progressing satisfactorily. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water
into Pantabangan Reservoir was achieved in September 1975, one year ahead of
the appraisal schedule. All remaining engineering work on the second division
dam was completed in July 1976, one year ahead of schedule. In the area
served by the project, lack of competition caused some delay in awarding of
contracts, but this has been overcome. Efforts to attract bids from more
local contractors have been very effective. Urgent work is being done by
Government force account. Project costs have increased about 54% over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of inflation. There would be added
benefits from early diversion, however, resulting in additional water for
irrigation'sooner than planned, but the rate of return is expected to fall
from 17% at appraisal to 14%.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming:
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
is being used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project. The Loan is now
fully committed for subloans and disbursements are expected to be completed
before the closing date.
Loan No. 1010    Third Rural Credit; $22.0 Million Loan of June 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Loan was fully committed by December 31, 1975 and disbursements
are expected to be completed long before the closing date.
Loan No. 1034     Sixth Power:  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. Major equipment for the plant has been con-
tracted and project commissioning is expected early in 1977. The trans-
mission component of the project is behind schedule because necessary
design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction program. It is
now expected that this part of the project will be completed by the end of
1978, i.e. one year behind schedule.
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions,
curriculum development, and new technical and vocational institutions
in rural areas. The physical facilities are nearing completion but are
about 11 months behind appraisal schedule due to earlier delays. All
project institutions are expected to be in full use by mid-1977. The
technical assistance program, however, is not expected to be completed
until late 1978. Therefore the postponement of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1978 is being considered.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the closing date.
Loan No. 939     Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
This project provides for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
ports of General Santos and Cagayan de Oro on the island of Mindanao. The
contract for General Santos was awarded in May 1975 but work has slowed
down due to dredging difficulties. For Cagayan de Oro, after about nine
months' delay, the contract was awarded on March 12, 1976 and work has now
commenced. The civil works were about 15% completed as of October 31, 1976.
Loan No. 950     Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is helping the Government to implement its program of
construction, improvement and rehabilitation of highways and feeder roads,
by financing the construction, improvement and rehabilitation of 1,400 km of
roads in Luzon. Works were about 70% completed as of September 1, 1976
on 14 contracts, 10 of which were awarded to local contractors. Costs have
increased sharply, but price adjustments are being awarded to contractors by
the Government to offset the sharp rises in costs of basic materials, fuels
and labor. Execution of other minor project items is generally proceeding
on schedule.
Loan No. 1035    Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, staff training facilities, and research and communications
capacity. Under the direction of Project Management Staff in the Department
of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are well ahead of schedule in all 12 regions; the civil works
component lags by 9 months, but is projected to be completed ahead of the
appraisal report timetable due to simplification of construction design.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 1048   Interisland Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Progress under the project is satisfactory. Commitments were
originally slow, because of lack of demand from the private sector and
DBP's restrictive collateral requirements. These problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments are expected to increase during the coming
months.
Loan No. 1052    Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of industrial subprojects,
the bulk of which are expected to go to export-oriented manufacturing
projects. As of October 31, 1976, commitments for subloans totalling
$12.5 million had been made. While subloan commitments have been some-
what slower than originally expected due to the generally slow pace of
business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. The project is progress-
ing satisfactorily although contract construction which will amount to 80% of
the total work has only started recently. However, all major civil works
contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and roads, which are being implemented



ANNEX II
Page 8
by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and construction has
begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan Assistance Program,
however, there was little progress under the other programs because of
inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new programs. Adequate
1977 budgets have been approved and all work is now expected to proceed
rapidly.
Loan No. 1120    Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully committed. After a
slow start, commitment of funds under the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund and
National Electrification Administration is now proceeding well. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley, Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
making good progress. The water management training is underway and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.
Loan No. 1190    Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP) for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and
relatively large industrial projects. Commitment of funds is much slower than
expected. As of December 31, 1976 only $1.8 million against the estimated
$17 million was committed. This is due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole over the past twelve months. The Executive
Directors approved a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small
and medium industries on February 25, 1977. The amendment to the Loan Agree-
ment is not yet signed.
Loan No. 1224    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Initial progress
under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The Loan became effective on September 13, 1976, and initial progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. The Loan became effective on
July 19, 1976, and initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippines
grain processing industry. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976,
and initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976 and initial progress
under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 10, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan area, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. The project
was declared effective on December 9, 1976.
Tendering is underway for construction of 1,500 of 2,000 serviced
lots at Dagat Dagatan, secondary water mains for Tondo, and the interceptor
sewer for Tondo. A memorandum dated December 16, 1976 (SecM76-849) was
circulated to the Executive Directors reviewing issues raised during the Bank/
Fund Annual Meeting.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. The loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
The Loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  The Central Bank of the Philippines
Guarantor:                 The Republic of the Philippines
Amount:                    $36.5 million, equivalent
Terms:                     The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
4-1/2 years of grace, and an interest rate of
8.5% per annum.
Relending Terms:           The Central Bank would relend $35.7 million of the
proceeds of the loan to participating rural banks
and stock savings and loan associatios (SSLAs) in
the form of Special Time Deposits at an interest
rate of 9% per annum or at 7% per annum for that
portion relent to land reform beneficiaries with
amortization reflecting the repayment terms of
sub-loans. The participating institutions would
relend the funds to farmers, fishermen and rural
entrepreneurs at an interest rate of 14% per annum
and to land reform beneficiaries at 12% per annum,
with repayment ranging from three to ten years,
including an appropriate grace period. The Central
Bank would provide a grant of $300,000 from the
proceeds of the loan to the Department of Agricul-
ture to finance an Agricultural Machinery Testing,
Evaluation and Standardization Project, and utilize
$500,000 of the proceeds to finance vehicles,
studies and staff training.
Project Description:       (a)  An agricultural credit operation consisting of
the provision of medium- and long-term credit by
rural banks and stock savings and loan associations
to farmers and rural entrepreneurs to finance
investments in farm mechanization, light transpor-
tation, coastal and inland fisheries, small-scale
livestock development, and cottage-scale agro-indus-
tries. The investments financed under the project
are expected to include the following:
(i) farm mechanization: about 1,775 tractors with
implements, 240 additional implement packages,
7,800 power tillers, 400 small irrigation units,
600 portable threshers and a small number of
other items including back-pack sprayers;



ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) transport: about 400 light trucks which would
be used by farmers to market produce and in
areas outside Manila to transport inputs to
their farms;
(iii) cottage and agro-industries: about 225 subpro-
jects over a wide range of subsectors, such as
rice milling, farm implement manufacturing,
woodworking, handicrafts and concrete products;
(iv) coastal and inland fisheries: About 45 small
coastal fishing boats and 1,200 inland fish-
ponds with a total area of about 6,000 ha;
and
(v)  about 3,240 small scale poultry, pig and cattle
breeding and fattening subprojects.
(b)  A study to assess the economic and social
impact of farm mechanization in the Philippines.
(c) A training program for the staff of the Depart-
ment of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associa-
tions, and to improve the lending operations
of the Borrower and of rural banks and savings and
loan associations, and the production of a credit
handbook.
(d) Procurement of about 60 vehicles for use of
field staff of DRBSLA.
(e) Construction and equipping of an Agricultural
Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization
Project at the University of the Philippines at Los
Banos.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign     Total   Foreign Exchange
------$ million -------             %
Farm mechanization             29.7     20.7        50.4          42
On-farm transportation          0.8      0.5         1.3          40
Fisheries development          12.6      2.0        14.6          14
Small-scale livestock
development                   6.2      0.7         6.9          10
Cottage and agro-
industries                    4.2      1.6        5.8           27
Subtotal                   53.5     25.5       79.0           32
Training                        0.2      -           0.2           0
Studies                         0.1      -          0.1            0
Vehicles                        0.2      0. 3        0.5          50
AMTESP                          0.4      0.1         0.5          19
Subtotal                    0.9      0.4         1.3          24
Total base costs               54.4     25.9        80.3          32
Price contingency               7.5      3.5        11.0          32
Total                      61.9     29.4        91.3          32
Financing:
US$ Million       Percent
CB/Government                              36.5              40
Bank                                       36.6              40
Rural Banks/SSLAs                            9.1             10
Beneficiaries                               9.1              10
Total                                  91.3             100



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year           Annual          Cumulative
-------US$ Million--------
1978                  11.2               11.2
1979                  11.6               22.8
1980                  12.1               34.9
1981                   1.6               36.5
Procurement:              Machinery, equipment and civil works needs
for sub-projects would be purchased through
normal commercial channels from the branches
and dealers of local or foreign firms repre-
sented in the Philippines. For contracts of
more than P. 10,000 ($1,340), sub-borrowers
would obtain at least three price quotations,
except in remote areas where suppliers are
not well represented, in which case a certified
statement to that effect would be required from
the participating institutions. The purchase
of service vehicles by the Central Bank ($400,000)
and of machinery, equipment and civil works of
more than $20,000 for the Agricultural Machinery
Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project
would be through competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with government procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank. Items of
less than $20,000 for the testing and evaluation
center would be procured through the Government's
normal procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank.
Consultants:              Consultants would be employed by the Central
Bank whose qualifications, experience, terms
and conditions of employment were satisfactory
to the Bank (i) to carry out a study of farm
mechanization (12 man-years) and (ii) to assist
with the development of the DRBSLA training
programs (2 man-years). The cost of such
consultants is estimated at about $4,000 per
man-month.
Rate of Return:           The estimated weighted average economic rate of
return for the project is 21%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 1415a-PH, dated March 7, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: The Project was
prepared by the Central Bank of the Philippines in approximately
six months (October, 1975-March 1976).
(b) First presentation to Bank: March, 1976
(c) Departure of Appraisal Mission: May/June, 1976
(d) Completion of Negotiations: February, 1977
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: Not later than August 15, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The Borrower would agree:
(a) to enforce the Rules and Regulations governing the disburse-
ment of project funds and would seek the prior approval of
the Bank in the event of any change in these Rules (para. 48);
(b) to pass on to the Department of Agriculture on the basis
of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank $0.3 million to help
finance the construction and equipment of the Agricultural
Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project
at the University of the Philippines at Los Banos (para. 48);
(c)  to maintain the Technical Support and Evaluation Unit in its
Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations
and to enable it to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
project (para. 45);
(d) to give selected qualified rural banks authority to undertake
their own sub-loan appraisals (para. 44);
(e) to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, terms
and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Bank to:
(i) carry out a study of farm mechanization and (ii) assist
with the development of the training programs of the Depart-
ment of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations of the
Central Bank (paras. 38 and 45);
(f) that it would endeavor to ensure that at least $11.0 million
of the proceeds of the loan would be re-lent to small farmers
as defined; that four-wheel tractors of no more than 80 h.p.
would be financed either for 18 months or until 1,000 had been
financed, after which the maximum size of four-wheel tractor
eligible under the project would be 68 h.p.; that the maximum
ceiling for financing of four-wheel tractors would be $16.5 mil-
lion; and that a maximum of 450 tractors be financed for
sugarcane growing farms (paras. 36 and 38);
(g) to establish and maintain a Management Advisory Unit (MAU) in
its Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations
(para. 45);
(h) to undertake the preparation of a credit handbook for its field
staff and those of onlending institutions and submit a preli-
minary draft to the Bank for comment not later than March 31, 1978
(para. 45);
(i) to enforce the arrears criteria agreed upon at negotiations and
would undertake a study on the causes of arrears, which would
be completed and available to the Bank by December 31, 1977
(para. 35).



IBRD 12585
120                                                 124                                        FEBRUARY 1977
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                               PHILIPPINES
1 2 .e No,t.           37 AkI-                                                            FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
-20   2   Abra                38  C-Piz                                       1t?
3   11-o00 Sur         39   Antuqu8                                                                                   ROADS
4   Mount-en           40   liloR
5   L. Um.on           41   Negro- O-dontersl                      --- -                                  -           RAILWAYS
6   Bensaet            42  Cebu
7   Pengosroe-         43   Negro. O-entl                                                                           PORTS
B   Bat.nes            44  Bohol                                                                                      AIRPORTS
9  Cagayvn             45   Sq.,jos                                                                                   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
10  K.IimS.-Ap.050      46  Northe-o Sa..,                       _
11  Iwale.             47   Soa..r                              BJhbrdn, Channti                           -    - -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
12  Ifogeo              49  Easlolo S..ar ,                                  San Vi-nnt.
13  Nuve- V.z-Ye        49  LOYt.                  L    )   (     \
14  Car=no              E0  Southern Levee            7y0g  .     / 
15  Nuoea E.011         51  Z-nboenge del Norte .            l 2
16  Tarsia              52  Z..boengo d-l S.,
17  Z..bales            63 BSat6e                    (          1 /Tuguegoro                             7he boundanes shown on thu snap do not
18  PempegO             54  Sulunply )rrdogen                                                                        end or acceprance by the
19  Blscen              55 TStlo                                                                          World an ad saff_ \
2O  Bataan              56  Sur-g.o del Nore(
21  Que-o-              57  C-mrg-m                  ( )          -/
22  R-al               58  Aguun d01 Norte Sar PernnI-nd  ' g               /
23  Ce-ite              59  M--s,. O-entel  Bo.hn-          / v     J                                                 1     2     2     30
_160   24  Lagona             92   Moeerie Odel            |           /100                                                  lb    200   250                   16
25  9a.an.0             61  Lam.o del Norae   L m              l,   /                       r                      KILOMETERS
26  M,r,d,q,,e          62  Len-o del Su,                                                             0        5)0     obO       1050     200
27  M,.d... 0r.,.t.1    63  B.k,dno.-< EVN               Ft;;StSrin>bs;                                                MILES
29  M,do-o Oc,dtenrol   84  Aguun del S.,       )|erIao   5
29  Romblon             65  Sur-9.o del Sur 1,     1     /   Case
30  Pola-on            66  M.g-rnd.n-o            A 1      "\ x
31  C-aernes Nor,e      67  North Co.tbes          A r les  / 19    1
32  Camernes Sue        89 D0- 50
33  Catanduonos         B9  Deven OrIental           OP//LI/P/NIF                                                              tE   ,1
34  Albzy               70  D.-co del SEr .,                   V'1
35  Sorsogon            71  Su.Ie Kod.rat          '3     '   A                    Jose Peng-niben
36  Mssba.e             72  South Coo.bto             pDaet                                     P.ndn--
S O  U         CHAIiV A                                   28           SI8UYANSLA      \
I  4;Idi8oge ~     ~      ~     .. 21
120                                                                                                                         O., 2  rZ /  -.  --  '            12o
CuIron 0;                                              N\ 5-CasF4bstlogk 
22) ~ ~~~~~~~                                   ow '  ' ,  fq   .  tGl
S.                    SileB.. 8i                      L,I4t,
\--   Culf.S
Puerto Prreess/ffi(/t-VX                             <      _     X
rs-  / 7                    /                                 CJl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,11WAlAWY' SEA   ,,
30 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~~~~~~~~6
/>  ~~~~~~~~,VUtU SEA                                                                                  658
80           0J' l<                                                                                                           8-frl
or, toO  (7                                   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'~~~~~~              68 \~~~~~~  69
TAIWAN                                                                 Maow Gull       66         67     o
PHILIPPINES                           Jo.o4;                                        7     72          |
VIET NAM
MALAYS%A7o't                                              '5-                         CELEBES      SEA
_ ,INDONE91120 C
I ~~~~~~~~~wSP t) >} 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120 1214 1B



