Report No. 1415-PH
Philippines: Appraisal of                                                                                       P
Fourth Rural Credit Project
March 7, 1977
Rural Credit and Agro-Business Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             =      Pesos (P) 7.5
P 1.00              =      US$0.1333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)             2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)   =       0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)    =       2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)    =       50 kg [a
1 cavan (corn)      =      57 kg
1 picul (sugar)    =       63.5 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ACA     -   Agricultural Credit Administration
AMDA    -   Agricultural Machinery Dealers Association
AMTESP  -   Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and
Standardization Project
CB      -   Central Bank of the Philippines
DBP     -   Development Bank of the Philippines
DRBSLA  -   Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan
Associations, CB
IGLF    -   Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
IRRI    -   International Rice Research Institute
LBP     -   Land Bank of the Philippines
MAU     -   Management Advisory Unit
NFAC    -   National Food and Agriculture Council
NIA     -   National Irrigation Administration
PCAC    -   Presidential Committee on Agricultural Credit
PNB     -   Philippine National Bank
SSLA    -   Stock Savings and Loan Associations
TBAC    -   Technical Board on Agricultural Credit
TSEU    -   Technical Support and Evaluation Unit
UPLB    -   University of the Philippines, Los Banos
FISCAL YEAR
Government:                January 1 to December 31
CB:                        January 1 to December 31
Rural Banks:               January 1 to December 31
SSLAs:                     January 1 to December 31
/a   The former weight of 44 kg for cavan is sometimes
still used in the Philippines.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............................                      i- iv
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................                         1
II.    BACKGROUND  ..........................................                          1
General .........................                                        1
Economy    ................................... .                        2
Agricultural  Sector .....          ..............                       2
Agricultural Credit  ............................                       3
III.    RURAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS  ..........................                          6
Rural Banks  ....................................                        6
Stock Savings and Loan Associations  ....               ........        8
IV.    REVIEW OF PREVIOUS  RURAL CREDIT PROJECTS  ...........               .          9
Performance Under First, Second and
Third Rural Credit Projects  ..................                       9
Issues Arising From Previous Projects  ........              ..        11
V.    THE PROJECT  ....... ..............              ....................         14
Detailed Features  ...............             ...............         14
Cost Estimates .........................                               19
Financing        .................... ..................               20
Procurement  ................... .................                     21
Disbursement ...........................                               22
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................                         22
Department of Rural Banks and Savings and
Loan Associations  ............................                      22
Lending Policies,  Terms and Criteria  ....              .......       25
Organization of Agricultural Machinery
Testing, Evaluation and Standardization
Project  ......................................                     27
Project Monitoring  .............................                      27
VII.    MARKETS AND PRICES  ..................................                         28
Markets  ........................................                      28
Prices ....                                                            28
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..........................                         29
IX.      RECOMMENDATIONS  .....................................                        31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance    |
of their official duties. Its conterts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Small-Scale Agriculture in the Philippines
2.   Cottage and Agro-Industries in the Philippines
3.   Agricultural Credit
4.   Summary of Previous Rural Credit Projects
5.   Central Bank of the Philippines
6.   Rural Banks
7.   Stock Savings and Loan Associations
8.   Farm Mechanization and Transport
9.   Cottage and Agro-Industries
10.   Fisheries Development
11.   Livestock Development
12.   Monitoring and Evaluation
13    Project Cost Estimate
14.   Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
15.   Phasing of the Lending Program
16.   Summary of Financial Rates of Return
17.   Economic Evaluation



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Philippines has requested a Bank loan to
assist in the financing of the medium- and long-term credit program admin-
istered by the Central Bank of the Philippines (CB). This would be the
fourth loan since 1965 in support of this program, in which funds are on-lent
through qualified rural banks and stock savings and loans associations (SSLAsi
to farmers, fishermen, and rural entrepreneurs. On the basis of the findings
presented in this report, a loan of US$36.5 million is recommended.
ii.       Seventy percent of the Philippine population of 42.5 million lives
in rural areas. Agriculture accounts for 50% of total employment, 70% of
commodity export earnings, and 35% of GNP. Remarkable growth was achieved
in agricultural production in the 1960's (7.7% per year between 1965 and
1970), primarily as a result of improved technology and the increased use
of cash inputs in rice production. After a period of adverse weather con-
ditions in the early 1970's, production has again recovered. However, ade-
quate supplies of production and term credit are essential to the continued
growth of production and the Government has undertaken a number of special
financing programs to augment private sector resources used in agricultural
development. The Rural Credit Projects supported by the Bank have been the
major component of Government assistance in term credit. Government goals
for the agriculture sector are self-sufficiency in food grain production,
expansion of agricultural exports, implementation of the Agrarian Reform
Program, improvement of income distribution and nutritional level, and con-
servation of natural resources. Cottage and agro-industries in rural areas
are viewed as a means of diversifying the rural economy and creating pro-
ductive employment.
iii.      Under the previous Rural Credit Projects, the first of which was
undertaken in 1965, a total of 10,860 sub-loans were made for farm mechani-
zation, processing and storage, transportation, minor irrigation, fisheries,
livestock and cottage and agro-industries. Bank loans totalling US$40 mil-
lion accounted for approximately 50% of total sub-project costs. Approxi-
mately 83% of total costs were for farm mechanization sub-projects, although
this share was reduced to 72% under the most recent project. The Rural
Credit Prcjects have been instrumental in mobilizing domestic funds for
medium- and long-term investments in agriculture and related industries.
They have contributed to rural productivity and incomes and have generated



- ii -
substantial employment opportunities. However, arising from experience under
previous projects, the proposed project would include specific measures to
affect the following: the channeling of a larger share of project proceeds
to smaller farmers and entrepreneurs; a reduction in the share of project
proceeds used for large-scale mechanization; improvements in the procurement
practices and guidelines governing farm machinery financing; greater attention
to the inter-relationship of the project with other rural credit programs; and
improvements in repayment performance among sub-borrowers.
iv.       The proposed project would provide medium- and long-term credit
(US$89.9 million) through qualified rural banks and stock savings and loan
associations to about 16,000 farmers, fishermen, and rural entreprenuers for
investment in: farm mechanization (US$55.3 million); light transporation
(US$1.5 million); cottage and agro-industries (US$7.0 million), coastal and
inland fisheries (US$17.6 million) and small-scale livestock development
(US$8.5 million). In addition, funds would be included for: a study to
assess the impact of farm mechanization in the Philippines; an Agricultural
Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project; training of credit
personnel; and service vehicles for CB field personnel engaged in the project.
v.        Total project costs are estimated to be P 684.4 million (US$91.3
million).  Foreign exchange costs would be US$29.4 million (32%).  The pro-
posed Bank loan of US$36.5 million, which would be for a period of 15 years
including a 4-1/2 year grace period, would finance 40% of project costs. CB
and the Government would provide 40%, rural banks and SSLAs 10% and sub-
borrowers 10%. Terms and conditions for the release of project funds would
be set out in the Rules and Regulations governing the project, which would
be subject to Bank approval.
vi.       As in the Third Project, machinery and equipment, including trucks,
irrigation pumps, engines and equipment for fishing boats, and machinery and
equipment for cottage and agro-industries would be purchased locally by sub-
borrowers under initial supervision of the on-lending institution. Suffi-
cient private contractors are available for construction of boats, buildings
and other civil works. The size of individual contracts would be too small
for international competitive bidding and bulking of contracts would not
be practicable because of their wide dispersal both in location and time.
All sub-project contracts would be made through ordinary commercial channels.
The purchse of service vehicles by CB would be through local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The procurement
of four-wheel tractors and imported power tillers would continue to be subject
to ceiling price guidelines although these guidelines would be modified to
reduce retail prices from present levels.
vii.      Disbursement of loan proceeds to CB would be as follows:



- iii -
(i) 45% of the sub-loans disbursed by rural banks and
SSLAs, against certified statement of expenditure;
(ii) 40% of the costs of instruction, materials and rental
of facilities for training and the preparation of a
credit handbook, against certified statement of
expenditure;
(iii) 100% of the c.i.f., ex-factory cost of vehicles, or
40% off-the-shelf, against invoice;
(iv) 40% of the cost of the farm mechanization study,
against certified statement of expenditure; and
(v) 66% of the cost of civil works and equipment contracts
for the Agriculture Machinery Testing, Evaluation and
Standardization Project, against invoice, to be passed
on to the Department of Agriculture.
viii.     The Director of CB's Department of Rural Banks and Savings and
Loan Associations (DRBSLA) would assume overall responsibility for imple-
mentation of all aspects of the project except the Agricultural Machinery
Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project, for which funds would be
channeled through the Department of Agriculture to the University of the
Philippines at Los Banos. CB Agricultural Credit Supervisors or members of
CB Loan Teams would assist rural banks and SSLAs to prepare sub-projects.
Loan Teams would evaluate sub-projects and, if approved, would recommend to
DRBSLA the transfer of Special Time Deposits to an account of the on-lending
institution. Disbursement against sub-borrower contracts would be made by
the on-lending institution, direct to suppliers where possible. During the
project period, a gradual transfer of lending authority to qualified on-lend-
ing institutions is envisaged, with technical assistance and post-approval
review by Loan Teams. Monitoring, reporting and technical support would be
provided by the Technical Support and Evaluation Unit of DRBSLA. In addi-
tion, a Management Advisory Unit would be established in the Department
consisting of a small number of experienced senior officers who would provide
assistance to rural banks on managerial problems outside the regular super-
vision and regulatory structure.
ix.       Project funds for sub-loans would be channeled through rural banks
(90%) and stock savings and loan associations (10%). The system of rural
banks, consisting of 786 individual banks, is the largest network of bank-
ing facilities in rural areas. Two hundred and forty five of these banks
participated in the Third Project. DRBSLA provides rural banks with train-
ing, technical assistance, and credit facilities, and supervises all aspects
of their operations. Loans by rural banks, of which 90% go to agriculture,
increased over 200% between 1972 and 1975, to P 2,324 million (US$310 million),
primarily as a result of Government supported food production credit programs
such as Masagana 99. This rapid expansion has been accompanied by a deteriora-
tion in collections; arrears were 21.4% of outstanding portfolio on December 31,
1975 compared to 16.7% a year earlier. Measures presently being taken to



- iv -
improve this situation, and implications for the proposed project are dis-
cussed in this report. There are 44 SSLAs in the Philippines, of which 13
participated in the Third Project. About 31% of total lending in 1975 of
P 77 million (US$10 million) went to agriculture, an increase of 13% from
the previous year. Collection performance is satisfactory. SSLAs are also
regulated by DRBSLA and receive the same training and technical assistance
services as rural banks. They do not, however, participate in special financ-
ing programs other than the Rural Credit Projects.
x.        At full development, the project is expected to result in incre-
mental production of agricultural commodities, small implements, handicrafts
and rural services with a total annual value of P 379.4 million (US$50.6 mil-
lion). It is expected to create 10,280 man years of employment per year, the
majority of which would be unskilled. Fifty seven percent of all sub-projects
other than four-wheel tractors, amounting to US$11 million of loan proceeds
would accrue to smaller farmers and entrepreneurs who would derive an average
net income from sub-projects of P 5,445 per year. Custom hire services would
also be used primarily by smaller farmers who occupy the majority of cultivated
lands and do not generally own tractors or tillers. The project would have a
net foreign exchange contribution of US$9.2 million per year primarily through
import substitution. Financial rates of return for sub-projects and an overall
economic rate of return have been determined and are satisfactory.
xi.       The proposed project is recommended for a loan of US$36.5 million
with a 15 year maturity, including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested a Bank loan to
assist in the financing of the medium- and long-term rural credit program
administered by the Central Bank of the Philippines (CB). This would be the
fourth loan in support of this program, previous loans having been made in 1965
(432-PH, US$5.0 million), 1969 (607-PH, US$12.5 million), and 1974 (1010-PH,
US$22.5 million). The third loan was fully committed in December 1975 and is
expected to be fully disbursed by the end of March 1977, 8 months before the
Closing Date. The proposed loan would be the eighteenth Bank loan in support
of agricultural and rural development in the Philippines.
1.02      As under the Third Rural Credit Project, the project would provide
funds to CB which would on-lend, through qualified rural banks and stock
savings and loan associations, to farmers, fishermen and rural entrepreneurs.
However, the project would place less emphasis on farm mechanization and
transportation than did previous projects and focus to a greater extent on
the development of fisheries, livestock, and cottage and agro-industries. The
Government has decided to place greater emphasis on the financing of smaller
farmers and a quota would be established for lending to this target group.
Additional funds would be provided for training of credit staff both of CB
and onlending institutions, and for other project support investments.
1.03      This report is based on a project proposal submitted in March 1976
by CB and on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs.
Y. Nakahara, J. Brown, D. Steel, D. Forno (Bank), H. Lapp, R. Jessup and
H. Deomampo (Consultants) which visited the Philippines in May-June 1976. 1/
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Republic of the Philippines, with an area of about 30 million
ha, consists of more than 7,000 islands scattered along the archipelago
1/   The mission also examined issues relating to the agricultural credit
sector, small-scale agriculture, and credit aspects of the Agrarian
Reform Program.



- 2 -
which extends over 1,600 km north and south. It is divided into three
main parts: Luzon in the north, the Visayas and Mindanao in the south.
The population is estimated to be some 42.5 million, growing at 2.8%
per annum (at the end of 1975), of which about 70% lives in rural areas.
Luzon has the largest population (53%), with about 5 million concentrated
in the Greater Manila area alone, the balance being evenly distributed
between the Visayas (25%) and Mindanao (22%).
2.02      The climate is tropical and characterized by high temperature,
humidity and rainfall.  Mean temperatures range from 21 C in January to
190C in May. Rainfall shows a wider range, from 1,000 mm in southwest
Mindanao to 5,500 mm in the highlands of Luzon.  Most areas lave one major
rainy season but the rainfall pattern varies widely across the country.
Climatically, the Philippines has high potential for agricultural production.
Economy
2.03      Real gross national product has been growing at 6 percent annually
in recent years, and in 1976 reached a level of $390 per capita at current
prices and exchange rates. Major assets of the Philippines for economic
development include relatively abundant mineral (with the exception of pet-
roleum) and water resources, a climate favorable to large-scale agricultural
production, a high level of general education, and a vigorous entrepreneurial
class. Significant liabilities include a high population density in rela-
tion to arable land and a high rate of population growth. Poverty and un-
equal distribution of income are longstanding problems and a significant
current problem is the large current account deficit of about $1 billion in
1976, brought about by a deterioration in the external terms of trade since
1974. The Government is attacking these problems through increased efforts
in rural development, family planning and labor-intensive export-oriented
nontraditional industries, In 1976, nontraditional exports increased by about
50%. The Bank, in its Basic Economic Report, and the Government regard GNP
growth of 7 percent a year as a feasible objective, and that the external
accounts situation is and will remain manageable provided that external debt
continues to be managed carefully and that nontraditional exports continue
to grow at a fairly rapid pace.
Agricultural Sector
2.04      Agriculture is the most important sector in terms of employment
and export earnings. It accounts for about 50% of total employment and
70% of commodity export earnings, consisting mainly of coconut and sugar-
cane products. Agriculture also contributes 35% of GNP consisting of food
crops (12%), export crops (9%), livestock (6%), fisheries (4%) and others
(4%).
2.05      Agricultural output was accelerated during the late 1960's due
largely to increased rice production, a result of introducing a new tech-
nological package of irrigation, high yielding varieties, fertilizers
and other farm inputs. The annual growth over 1965-70 was 7.7%. From 1971
to 1973 crops were seriously affected by adverse weather conditions and crop
diseases but production has since recovered.



2.06      More than half of the total land area of 30 million ha is forest-
land and about one-third is cultivated including plantations. An additional
2.5 million of fairly level or slightly sloping land is classified as avail-
able for cultivation, of which 1.0 million ha is cogun grassland, difficult
and expensive to reclaim. With the rate of land expansion for farm land
slowing down in recent years, it has been clear that most of the increased
production and farm incomes must come from higher yields, intensification
of land use and cultivation of higher value crops.
2.07      The Government goals for the agricultural sector are self-
sufficiency in food grain production, expansion of agricultural exports,
implementation of the Agrarian Reform Program, improvement of income dis-
tribution and nutritional level, and conservation of natural resources.
Agricultural Credit
2.08      Agricultural credit available from both Government and non-
Government institutions probably accounts for about one-third of all agri-
cultural credit, the remainder being provided by traditional non-institu-
tional sources. In nominal terms, institutional credit for agriculture has
increased continuously. In real terms, it grew rapidly during the first half
of the 1960's, decelerated during the second half and actually started to
decline in the early 1970's. With the introduction of supervised food pro-
duction programs, real growth has once again been substantial since 1973
(Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2). One limitation on the flow of credit to agricul-
ture is the inadequate coverage of institutions serving rural areas; another
is collateral requirements which preclude access to credit by a large number
of small farmers. In efforts to overcome these problems, the Government is
promoting the expansion of the rural banking system and has introduced special
credit programs such as Masagana 99 to provide production credit to small
farmers without collateral. The Rural Credit Projects and other Bank-supported
projects have provided additional investment credit to rural areas.
2.09      Government Institutions.  About 20% of the institutional credit
to agriculture is provided by the public sector principally through the
Philippines National Bank (PNB), and, to a much lesser degree, the Agricul-
tural Credit Administration (ACA). 1/ In addition, the Land Bank of the
Philippines (LBP) has been revitalized and is expected to play an essential
role in financing land transfer under the Agrarian Reform Program and provid-
ing credit, mainly to agrarian reform beneficiaries.
2.10      PNB is the largest bank with about 170 branches and 120 mobile
offices. Its total assets increased from P 6.2 billion in 1973 to P 15 bil-
lion (US$2 billion) in 1975. Traditionally, its agricultural lending has been
to commercial farms and plantations primarily for seasonal credit for pro-
duction inputs, marketing and processing. Now it also finances half of the
short-term credit for food grain production under Masagana 99 and Masaganang
1/   The CB support of agricultural credit is in the form of rediscounting
facilities and Special Time Deposits for other public and private
institutions.



-4-
Maisan. As a result, about 30% of its total lending is for agriculture. DBP
provides medium- and long-term credit for a wide range of enterprises in the
agricultural sector. In 1975, 23% of its loan approvals, reaching P 2.4
billion (US$330 million), was to agriculture. Since 1972, the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) has been the credit channel for seven IBRD
agricultural projects. 1/ ACA finances production and marketing cooperatives
and small farmers but, owing to lack of funds and poor loan recovery, its
lending has decreased and its future role is under review.
2.11      Private Institutions.  Commercial banks are the most important
private institutions providing some 55% of all institutional agricultural
credit, although this amounts to less than 10% of their portfolios. CB now
requires that a minimum of 25% of all commercial bank lending go to agri-
culture. Instead of making direct loans, many banks purchase CB Certificates
of Indebtedness, the proceeds of which are used by CB to refinance agricultural
loans provided by other credit institutions. About 30 commercial banks serve
the agricultural sector directly, mostly in the form of short-term credit for
marketing and trade financing in copra and sugarcane.
2.12      The next important private institutions are rural banks (786 in
June 1976) with total assets of some US$470 million. They provide about
20% of all institutional agricultural credit, mainly under the Masagana 99
and Masaganang Maisan, and are also gradually increasing their term lending
primarily under the Rural Credit Projects supported by the Bank. Although
much smaller in scale, there are savings and loan associations and private
development banks which lend about a third of their funds to agriculture.
2.13      Cooperatives have begun to assume an important role in the
flow of credit to small farmers, particularly agrarian reform beneficiaries.
Membership in a Samahang Nayon (pre-cooperative at the village level) is a pre-
requisite of credit for agrarian reform beneficiaries, and is encouraged for
all small borrowers.  Samahang Nayons in turn become shareholders in market-
ing, processing and service cooperatives usually established at the pro-
vincial level. Samahang Nayons may acquire up to 40% equity in rural banks
and one bank has now been established in Nueva Ecija under full cooperative
ownership. Government training courses for members and management are
mandatory prerequisites for any financial undertakings by Samahang Nayons.
At the end of March 1976, about 17,000 Samahang Nayon had been organized
and 90 cooperatives organized at higher levels. At that time, total sav-
ings of Samahang Nayons amounted to P 29 million. It is too early, however,
to predict the success of this program but it is evident that assistance
in financial management and control will be essential to members' confidence
in the success of cooperatives.
1/   Rice Processing and Storage Project, Loan 720-PH, US$14.3 million
First Fisheries Project, Loan 891-PH, US$11.6 million
First Livestock Development Project, Loan 832-PH, US$7.5 million
First Industrial and Small Holder Tree Farmers Project Loan 998-PH,
US$50.9 million (US$2.0 million for tree farming)
Second Livestock Development Project, Loan 1225-PH, US$20.0 million
Second Grain Processing Project, Loan 1269-PH, US$11.5 million
Second Fisheries Projects, Loan 1270-PH, US$12.0 milli-on



-5-
2.14      Interest Rates.  The annual interest rate for credit from Govern-
ment sources is normally 12% for loans secured by land, and 14% for others.
An exception is the 12% interest rate for supervised credit made available
under Masagana 99 and other Government food grain production credit programs
for which real estate collateral is not required. Recently the Monetary
Board has raised the ceiling interest rates to 17% for loans less than two
years and 19% for loans over two years which is not applicable to rural
banks 1J. The effective cost of credit from agricultural input suppliers is
between 15% and 25% per annum; from private moneylenders the cost is much
higher.
2.15      Development Policies for the Agricultural Credit Sector.  In
September 1975, the Presidential Committee on Agricultural Credit (PCAC) and
its working group, the Technical Board on Agricultural Credit (TBAC) were
established. 21 Their establishment and composition attest to the Government's
intention to address carefully and vigorously issues surrounding the future
of this sector. TBAC has its own staff of about 30 persons who conduct studies
of various aspects of the rural credit sector under the direction of the Board
and review studies conducted by CB, Government agencies and special committees.
Over the past year a useful dialogue has been established between members of
these units and representatives of the Bank, and attention is now being given
to issues which ought to determine the nature of future Bank support for the
sector. Among these are; the identification of target groups with clearly
defined credit needs, determination of the most suitable long-term roles for
various credit institutions, the coordination of credit and technical assist-
ance to borrowers, new sources of funds such as supplier's credit, and the
financing of marketing and storage facilities.
1/   These ceiling interest rates include commissions, premiums, fees, and
other charges of 3%. Loans over two years may not exceed 80% and 100%,
respectively, of time deposits and deposit substitutes with a remaining
maturity of more than two yeats.
2/   The members of PCAC are:  Governor, Central Bank (Chairman); Secretary,
Department of Agriculture (Vice-Chairman); Director-General, National
Economic and Development Authority; Secretary, Department of Local Govern-
ment and Community Development; Secretary, Department of National Resources;
Secretary, Department of Agrarian Reform; President, Philippine National
Bank; Chairman, Development Bank of the Philippines; and President, Land
Bank of the Philippines.
The members of TBAC are representatives of: Central Bank (Chairman),
Department of Agriculture (Vice-Chairman), Department of Local Government
and Community Development, Department of Natural Resources, National
Economic and Development Authority, Philippine National Bank, National
Food and Agriculture Council, Department of Agrarian Reform, Agricultural
Credit Administration, Development Bank of the Philippines, Land Bank of
the Philippines and a separate representative from the DRBSLA, Central
Bank.



- 6 -
III. RURAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS
3.01      Although commercial banks provide over one half of the insti-
tutional credit for agriculture, the rural banking system (presently with
786 individual banks) has the largest network of banking facilities serv-
ing the rural areas and is capable of financing a large number of medium
and small farmers. In providing medium- and long-term loans for rural
development, rural banks and SSLAs, which supplement the rural banking
system to extend its coverage to rural areas, have proved successful as
credit channels for the three Rural Credit Projects and would continue to
be the credit channels for the proposed Fourth Project.
3.02      Rural banks and SSLAs are private banks, supervised by CB's
Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations (DRBSLA)O
Most are established, capitalized and managed by close family groups,
although cooperatives are now entitled to acquire shares of rural banks up
to a maximum of 40%. In some cases, banks and SSLAs are owned by the
same group of investors.
Rural Banks 1/
3.03      Organization.  Establishment of rural banks is authorized by
the Monetary Board and the Government may at the time of establishment
assist them by subscribing in the form of preferred shares up to an amount
equal to shares subscribed by private individuals. At the end of 1975,
shares held by the Government had decreased to 26% of paid-in capital through
acquisition by private shareholders. DRBSLA provides rural banks with train-
ing for management and staff, technical assistance in lending and administra-
tion, and funds through Special Time Deposits. It also supervises and examines
their operations. Funds are also provided by CB's Department of Loans and
Credits (DLC) through rediscounting facilities. During the first two years
of a Four-Year Development Program for the rural banking system (1974-77),
140 new rural banks were established compared to a target of 100 each year
for the plan period. This very rapid expansion has placed a heavy bur-
den on training and supervision staff of CB. Rural banks are typically
established by prominent financial or professional members of the smaller
communities they serve. Their investment portfolios, which average P 3 mil-
lion, consist of loans to borrowers within a small radius, perhaps concentra-
ted within 20 km. Staffed by a manager, an accountant, a cashier, one or two
technicians, and support staff, they rely heavily on an intimate knowledge
of local conditions and borrower reputations to protect the quality of their
portfolios. Types of loans reflect the predominant credit needs of the
respective communities, but, in the main, short-term agricultural production
loans constitute the majority of their portfolios.
i/   A more detailed description of rural bank operations appears as
Annex 6.



-7-
3.04      Financial Resources.  As of December 30, 1975, rural banks'
total resources were P 2,749 million (US$377 million), consisting of
P 276 million (US$38 million) in paid-capital, P 150 million (US$20 million)
in surpluses, reserves and undistributed profits, P 678 million (US$93
million) in deposits, and P 1,489 million (US$204 million) in borrowing,
the bulk from CB. In the past three years, total liabilities more than
tripled from P 694 million at the end of 1972 to P 2,323 million at the
end of 1975. This increase was primarily due to the introduction of the
food grain production programs (Masagana 99 and Masaganang Maisan) and to
increased disbursements under the Rural Credit Projects.
3.05      A large portion of borrowings is made through CB's rediscounting
facilities. CB rediscounts promissory notes up to 100% of face value under
supervised production schemes (rice, corn and sugar) a: 1% per year and (80%
at 5% per year for non-supervised ordinary schemes), with a limit of 500%
of the borrowing bank's net worth plus 100% of its average monthly saving
deposits over the preceding four months for supervised ciredit (100% and 50%
respectively for non-supervised credit). The terms are up to 180 days for
commercial loans, 270 days for agricultural and industrial loans, and 360
days for loans to cooperatives. Another facility provided by CB is the
advancement of funds as Special Time Deposits to finance special programs
including the Rural Credit Projects. These deposits are secured by promis-
sory notes from the recipient banks.
3.06      Deposits are another major source of funds for rural banks auth-
orized by the Monetary Board. Annual interest rates as of January 1976
vary from 7.5% for savings deposits to 9% and 12.5% for time deposits of
90 days and 2 years, respectively. National and regional savings campaigns
supported by CB in the past year have been very successful.
3.07      Lending Operations.  The loan portfolio of rural banks increased
rapidly in recent years; from P 770 million (US$103 million) at the end of
1972 to P 2,324 million (US$310 million) at December 31, 1975; an increase
of over 300%.  More than 90% of these loans were to agriculture.  The number
of loans exceeded 1,000,000 in both 1974 and 1975 and the average loan size
in 1975 was P 2,220 (US$296).  Medium- and long-term financing is limited
almost entirely to that supported by the Bank through the CB:IBRD program
and accounts for less than 10% of rural bank loan portfolios.
3.08      Arrears.  The overdues position of rural banks is not satisfactory.
As of December 31, 1975, arrears amounted to 21.4% of outstanding portfolio,
an increase from 16.7% at December 31, 1974. In absolute terms, arrears
increased from P 287.0 million at the end of 1974 to p 503.4 million at the
end of 1975. During the appraisal of the proposed project a more detailed
analysis was conducted of 268 banks, including those participating in the
Third Project as of December 31, 1975. As of March 31, 1976, overdues among
these banks accounted to 36% of demand. Only 111 were below the 20% criterion
which was to have been introduced April 1, 1976, had funds not been fully
committed prior to that date. In the case of 112 banks arrears were found to
exceed 40% of demand. Measures presently being taken to improve this situa-
tion and implications for the proposed projects are discussed in para 6.09.



- 8 -
3.09      Profits.  Although rural banks' income and expenditure both increased
by about three times, net income and return to common stocks have shown some
improvement in 1974 and 1975. However, the profitability of individual banks
seems to differ widely, even without considering adequacy of reserves for bad
debts. The generally high level of returns to common stock despite serious
arrears problems is a reflection of the very high degree of leverage encour-
aged by the present CB financial assistance to the system. Commitments to re-
ducing arrears can be expected to increase meaningfully only as CB credit
facilities are more stringently tied to collection performance.
Stock Savings and Loan Associations (SSLAs) 1/
3.10      Organization,  SSLAs are registered as stock corporations after
approval by the Monetary Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
They can accept deposits from the public and make loans to the public.
They are now classified as banking institutions and, unlike rural banks,
may open branch offices with approval of the Monetary Board. They do not
enjoy exemption from taxes and Government fees and charges and cannot
receive capital assistance from the Government. At the end of December
1975, there were 44 SSLAs (compared with 67 non-stock savings and loan
associations), including about 20 in the Greater Manila area.
3.11      Financial Resources.  At December 31, 1975, the total paid-up
capital of all SSLAs was P 54.4 million (17% of total resources). The
main source of funds is savings and time deposits collected from stock-
holders and the public. Savings contributed about a half of total resources
while time deposits contributed 18%. SSLAs insure their savings and de-
posits with the Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation and, in addition,
they have organized their own Guaranty Fund to ensure the liquidity of
individual associations. Borrowings were mainly from CB for participation
under the Rural Credit Projects (11% of total resources).
3.12      Lending Operations.  In the past, SSLAs lent prlrLarily for
commercial and housing purposes, but lending to agriculture has gradually
increased during 1974 and 1975 (13% in 1974; 31% in 1975). About two-
thirds of SSLA loans are secured by collateral.
3.13      Collection and Profits.  Collection of loans to date is satis-
factory. Net income of all SSLAs is improving gradually and in 1975, it
was P 4.5 million or 8% of the paid-up capital compared to P 1.7 million
(5% of paid-up capital) in 1972.
1/   A more detailed description of SSLA operations appears as Annex 7.



-9-
IV. REVIEW OF PREVIOUS RURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
a. Performance under First, Second and Third Rural Credit Projects
4.01      First Rural Credit Project (Loan 432-PH).  This loan of US$5.0
million assisted in establishing for the first time a nationwide system to
channel medium- and long-term credit through the rural banks to farmers and
fishermen. Between 1965 and 1969, 148 rural banks participated in the
project and financed about 2,600 farmers for the purchase of farm machinery
and irrigation pumps, and for development of fisheries and livestock as in
the following table:
No. of     Amount in         Amount as        Average
Category          Sub-loans  Million Pesos       % of Total    Sub-loan Size
Farm Machinery        2,118         19.1              89.3            9,000
Irrigation Pumps        279          1.0               4.6            3,600
Fisheries, Livestock   197           1.3               6.1            6,600
Total            2,594         21.4            100.0             8,250
4.02      Second Rural Credit Project (Loan 607-PH)  This loan of US$12.5
million financed basically the same sub-loan categories as the First Project
but included, in addition, storage and processing facilities and on-farm
transportation equipment. Because of the low demand for term credit during
the initial stage of project implementation, caused primarily by the effect
of the peso devaluation as well as several natural disasters, final disburse-
ment was completed in June 10, 1974, a delay of 18 months. From 1969 to
1974, project funds were channeled through 228 rural banks to about 4,000
farmers. The breakdown by major components is given in the following table:
No. of     Amount in         Amount as        Average
Category              Sub-loans  Million Pesos        % of Total   Sub-loan Size
Farm Mechanization         2,997        109.1             74.3           35,400
Processing & Storage         161          4.7              3.2           29,200
Transportation               229         12.8              8.7           55,900
Fisheries                    265          9.1              6.2           34,350
Livestock                    413         11.1              7.6           26,900
Total                4,065        146.8             100.0           36,100
4.03      Third Rural Credit Project (Loan 1010-PH).  Under this loan of
US$22.5 million a number of new sub-loan categories were added, the major
additions being farm machinery repairshops, reconditioned trucks, fishmeal
plants and woodcraft plants. Other new categories were fishpens and small



- 10 -
dairy farming. Stock savings and loan associations (SSLAs) were included
to provide additicnal channels to project beneficiaries. The strong demand
for tractors, power tillers and trucks continued under the third loan and CB
fully committed project funds during December 1975, about 18 months ahead of
schedule. Sub-loans were provided to 4,200 farmers through about 245 rural
banks and 13 SSLAs as in the following table:
No. of     Amount in        Amount as        Average
Category              Sub-loans  Million Pesos       % of Total    Sub-loan Size
Farm Mechanization        2,930        182.3             72.4           62,200
Farm Transportation         566         40.5             16.1           72,700
Farm Support Facilities    293           4.9              1.9           16,600
Fisheries                    184        10.4              4.1           57,000
Livestock                    213        13.0              5.2           60,900
Cottage and Agro-
Industries                 25          0.7              0,3           26,600
Total                4,211        251.9            100.0           60,000
4.04      Regional Distribution of Proceeds.  The flow of funds under the
three projects has been concentrated in Luzon as shown in the following table,
although there is a trend toward more even distribution among regions.
First Loan         Second Loan        Third Loan
No.     Amount    No.       Amount   No.      Amount
Luzon                       66%       66%       61%        66%    50%        50%
Visayas                     18%       17%       20%        22%    23%        30%
Mindanao                     16%      17%       19%         12%    27%        20%
4.05      Financing Pattern.  Under the First Project, the Bank's share in
total cost of sub-projects was limited to 55%, rural banks were required to
contribute 10% and sub-borrowers, 30%. In the Second and Third Projects, the
Bank's limit was reduced to 50%, the rural banks' contribution was the same
10%, and sub-borrowers' contribution was lowered to 10%. The following table
presents the actual shares in sub-project financing:
First Loan        Second Loan       Third Loan
IBRD                              55%                47%               47%
Central Bank                      25%                28%               27%
Rural Banks /a                     5%                 9%                9%
Sub-borrowers                     15%                16%               17%
/a   Rural bank contributions did not reach the required minimum 10% because
the condition was waived during project implementation (the First and
Second Projects) and because contributions in some cases was mistakenly
calculated on the basis of sub-loans instead of total sub-project costs
(the Third Project).



- 11 -
4.06      Participation of On-Lending Institutions.  Participation under the
Rural Credit Projects was constrained primarily by arrears criteria and by
the operating radius of Loan Teams (nine operated under the Third Project)
to process sub-loans. Actual participation under the three projects was as
follows:
First Loan        Second Loan       Third Loan
Rural Banks                       148               228               245
SSLAs                              -                 -                 13
b.  Issues Arising from Previous Projects
4.07      Overall Assessment.  The Rural Credit Projects have been instru-
mental in mobilizing domestic funds for medium- and long-term investments in
agriculture and related industries. As a result of previous projects, rural
banks began term lending, and the rules and operations of rural banks generally
have been improved. Farm mechanization under previous projects has increased
crop yields and cropping intensity by facilitating the adoption of improved
technology and efficient use of irrigation facilities. Farm incomes and rural
employment opportunities have been increased among the beneficiaries. However,
progress in lending to smaller farmers has been disappointing. While large-
scale mechanization is an important factor in the growth of the rural economy,
the distribution of project proceeds among sub-loans categories has been heav-
ily weighted in favor of four-wheel tractors and due attention does not appear
to have been given to other categories. The impact of previous projects on
participating institutions has been positive and there is scope for the use of
this mechanism to further strengthen the lending capacity and procedures and
the financial control of on-lending institutions. It is difficult to assess
with any precision the extent to which project funds have been additional or
substitutive. However, in view of the fact that rural banks depended almost
entirely on previous projects for term-lending resources and recognizing the
shortage of investment credit in rural areas, it is reasonable to assume that
funds have been additional. Substitution may have occurred in the case of
some sugarcane tractors, and this category would be reduced under the proposed
project.
4.08      Project Beneficiaries.  Recipients of sub-loans have usually been
owners of 5 ha to 50 ha, the upper limit of farm size for which rural banks
are authorized to extend credit. The majority of sub-loans have gone to bor-
rowers at the upper end of the size spectrum whose business contacts afford
them the best knowledge of credit opportunities and whose financial position
enables them to provide the most attractive collateral. The major benefit of
previous projects to small farmers has been the custom hire services, parti-
cularly in land preparation, which are offered by the recipients of sub-loans.
The credit needs of small farmers are difficult to serve through private,
commercially-oriented credit systems such as the networks of rural banks and



- 12 -
SSLAs, and due regard must be given to the financial strength and development
of the onlending institution. 1/ Nevertheless there are financially viable
investments which can be tailored to the needs of small entrepreneurs. The
nature and size of most components of the proposed project have been determined
with this objective in mind and, in addition, it is proposed that a minimum
share of project proceeds be directed to this target group (para 5.02). 2/
4.09      Sub-Loan Components.  The financing of four-wheel tractors has
dominated previous projects to a significantly greater degree than projected
during appraisals, reflecting only in part the financial merits of such
investments. Other factors have been the relative ease of processing such
sub-loans, the aggressive promotional activities of the industry, the
attractiveness of a chattel mortgage on tractors in terms of ease and value
of resale, and the prominance of typical tractor purchasers in the rural
communities. Efforts on the part of the Bank to encourage the promotion
of other investments have not succeeded in overcoming these forces and, in
order to provide for the financing in greater numbers of other types of
investments, the proposed project would limit the funds available for four-
wheal tractors (para 5.03).
4.10      Farm Mechanization.  Under certain conditions it has been demon-
strated that some types of farm mechanization displace labor, an economic
consideration the more serious by virtue of the fact that it is generally
unskilled labor with few alternative employment opportunities that is effected.
Mechanization in the Philippines has been introduced primarily in land prepar-
ation and evidence available to date indicates that in fact the result has
been to increase labor requirements over the total cropping operation. In-
creased yields, cropping intensity and area have been facilitated, thereby
generating additional employment in planting, harvesting and post-harvest
operations. Land preparation and harvesting typically occur at the same
time in multiple cropping areas, and mechanization has to some extent alle-
viated labor shortages in land preparation when priority for manual labor
must be given to harvesting standing crops. The extent of the labor im-
pact of mechanization in the Philippines and the most appropriate types
of mechanization from an employment standpoint have not been adequately
examined as a basis for long-term investment policy, however, and the
proposed project would include such a study (para 5.10).
4.11      Tractor and Tiller Prices.  During appraisal of the proposed proj-
ect it was a matter of concern that tractor and tiller prices had risen
rapidly in recent years. While this reflects to some extent increases in
1/   OED Report, Agricultural Credit Program, November 1976,   ... the
farm development strategy must not succeed at the expense of the
channel's capacity for effective performance", p. 76.
2/   Annex 1 presents a survey of small-scale agriculture in the
Philippines and develops the definition of the proposed target
group for the project.



- 13 -
the c.i.f. prices of this imported equipment, CB ceiling price policy and
its administrative supervision of machinery procurement for financing under
the CB:IBRD program were found to be unsatisfactory. One detrimental effect of
high prices in addition to the impact on sub-borrowers has been the attraction
into the industry of a large number of brands and agencies competing for small
shares of a relatively small, scattered market. The resulting diseconomies, in
terms of dealer network, for example, are significant. Under the proposed proj-
ect ceiling price guidelines for tractors and imported tillers would be modi-
fied (para 5.19) and procurement practices improved (para 5.18).
4.12      Interdependence with Other Credit Programs.  With the diversific-
ation of lending under previous projects and the increased total flow of
credit to agriculture the interdependence of the CB:IBRD program and other
credit programs, both production and term, has greatly increased in recent
years. Financing under the proposed project must be monitored in the context
of the total impact of credit programs on the financial well-being of on-
lending banks and sub-borrowers. Institutional aspects of the project such
as training, CB organization, bank eligibility, and sub-borrower appraisal
would be modified to insure that they complement and take into consideration
the impact of other credit programs on banks and sub-borrowers participating
in the proposed project (Chapter VI).
4.13      Institutional Development.  Measures under previous projects such
as the establishment of the Technical Support and Evaluation Unit and Loan
Teams and the expansion of Agricultural Credit Supervisors in the field have
resulted in substantial enhancement of CB's capacity to develop and supervise
term credit portfolios in rural banks and SSLAs. However, the expanding number
and diversity of sub-loans placed an increasing burden on CB. With the accu-
mulation of experience in term lending on the part of on-lending institutions,
it is feasible now to begin a transfer of more responsibility directly to
them. With the Government's desire to promote this development, a number
of training and organizational measures under the proposed project would
assist in a gradual transfer of lending authority to rural banks and SSLAs
(para 5.12 and Chapter VI).
4.14      Repayment Performance.  The Government and CB have now acknowledged
that every effort must be made to reduce high arrearages, and a number of
remedial actions have been taken. The National Commission on Countryside
Credit and Collection (NCCC) chaired by CB's Governor, has been established
to review the large overdues existing under Government-assisted lending
programs. Together with its working unit established in CB, it is expected
to assist banks in their collection efforts and to formulate educational
programs to improve repayment habits in rural areas. CB is implementing
a special scheme under which teams of one examiner and one agriculturist
would reside in local areas to strengthen supervision and technical assist-
ance to four and eight rural banks, respectively. CB has also decided to
deny, as of November 1, 1976, all rediscounting facilities to rural banks
with arrears in excess of 25% of their loan portfolio. 1/ This is not a new
1/   As a result of this action, 257 rural banks were temporarily disqualified
from rediscounting on November 1, 1976.



- 14 -
criterion although it has not been enforced with respect to food production
loans since 1973. It is also proposed that Government undertakes a detailed
study of the causes of arreazs to assist in the developing measures for their
reduction. Together with improved financial management assistance to banks,
it is expected that these measures will reduce present arrears substantially.
Arrears criteria for the proposed project are discussed in para 6.09.
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      The project would be a continuation of the Third Rural Credit Proj-
ect to provide medium- and long-term credit for another three years. Quali-
fied rural banks and SSLAs would lend project funds to about 16,000 farmers
and rural entrepreneurs for investment in: (a) farm mechanization; (b) light
transportation; (c) cottage and agro-industries; (d) coastal and inland fish-
eries; and (e) small-scale livestock development. The project would also
include funds for: (f) a study to assess the impact of farm mechanization
in the Philippines; (g) an Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and
Standardization Project to standardize the quality of farm machinery; (h) a
training program to improve the lending capability of CB and rural bank staff;
and (i) service vehicles for CB field staff engaged in the project.
5.02      Emphasis would be given to increasing the share of project proceeds
accruing to smaller borrowers above that realized in previous projects. Assur-
ances were obtained that a minimum of US$11 million I/ of loan proceeds would
be on-lent to small beneficiaries whose total self-earned income per year is
less than P 7,500 2/, or whose total self-earned income per year is P 7,500
or more and who earn 75% or more of such income from one of the following: a
land holding, owned or leased, of not more than seven ha; a fishing enterprise,
operated on the basis of ownership or leasehold, consisting of not more than
five ha of fishponds or fishpens, or not more than one fishing vessel, such
vessel not to exceed five tons; or a cottage or agro-industrial enterprise
owned and operated by them, and consisting of fixed assets of less than
P 100,000, excluding the value of land.
Detailed Features
(a) Farm Mechanization (Annex 8)
5.03      Four-Wheel Tractors.  The project would finance about 1,775 tractors
and implement packages for rice, corn and sugarcane farmers. The trend toward
the purchase of larger tractors in the Philippines has resulted in excess
1/   Equivalent to 56.6% of proceeds allocated to sub-projects other than four-
wheel tractors or 30.6% of total sub-loan proceeds.
2/   Financing under the project of a small-scale livestock enterprise of
not more than 10 sows, 200 layers, 400 broilers, or five cattle or
carabaos would usually be for this category of small beneficiaries.



-15 -
power and reduced cost effectiveness of tractor investments, particularly in
rice and corn areas (Annex 8, para 18). Under the Third Project a limit of
80 hp was placed on tractors to be financed, irrespective of crops cultivated.
To further reduce the financing of excess capacity, tractors to be used in
rice and corn production, where draft requirements are significantly less,
would be limited to a maximum of 68 hp under the proposed project. However,
this limitation would be imposed only after a period of 18 months from the
date of the Loan Agreement or after the financing of 1,000 units of tractors
in excess of 68 hp each, whichever should occur first, in order to facilitate
the adjustment of the trade and the reduction of present inventories of large
tractors. Assurances were obtained that financing of four-wheel tractors in
excess of 68 hp each would be limited to 1,000 units, of which a maximum of
450 units would be financed to be used in sugarcane growing areas, where pur-
chasers are typically in a better position to use alternative sources of
financing, 1/ and that loan proceeds used to finance four-wheel tractors
irrespective of horsepower would be limited to US$16.5 million. 2/ One addi-
tional limitation would be imposed on tractor financing: for tractors to be
eligible for financing under the project, retail prices would not be permitted
to exceed ceilings presented in the discussion of procurement (para 5.19).
These limitations would be monitored by Loan Teams and the Technical Support
and Evaluation Unit (TSEU).
5.04      Power Tillers.  About 7,800 tillers would be financed under the
project. The financial viability of small cultivators is marginal in terms
of additional output under normal conditions. However, a major advantage,
although difficult to quantify, is the assurance of cultivation capacity in
contrast to the uncertainty resulting from the vulnerability of draft animals
to debilitating diseases and their need for prolonged periods of rest. This
protection can be afforded by the smaller locally manufactured units and the
evaluation of higher cost imported models has been subjected to more stringent
financial criteria. At present price levels, purchase of imported models
cannot be justified, and financing under the project would be limited to those
which conform to ceiling price guidelines presented in procurement paragraph
5.19. This limitation would be monitored by Loan Teams and TSEU.
5.05      Other Farm Mechanization.  Other items would include about 400
small irrigation units, 600 portable threshers of 100-300 cavans per hour
capacity, about 240 implement packages for owners of tractors purchased
outside of the project, and a small allocation for miscellaneous equipment
such as back-pack sprayers. Demand for small-scale irrigation facilities
is limited at the present time because of uncertainty surrounding water
rights and the absence of detailed groundwater surveys. Some of this
limited demand is now being met by Government agencies such as the National
Irrigation Authority, the Farm Systems Development Corporation and the
Public Works Department through separate programs offering credit on more
lenient, inexpensive terms than can be offered by commercial credit
1/   Under the Third Project, it is estimated that about 600 tractors were
financed for sugarcane growers.
2/   US$16.5 million, consisting of $14.0 million base cost estimate plus a
maximum share of price contingencies of $2.5 million.



- 16 -
institutions. In the case of portable threshers, technical merit in terms
of recovery rates is not reflected in large demand since minimum utilization
rates to assure viability generally require the grouping of farmers or ex-
tensive custom work. For both irrigation pumps and portable threshers,
our estimates of units to be financed reflect these limitations despite
the potential contribution to increase production.
(b) Light Transportation (Annex 8)
5.06      This category would include about 400 light trucks having a gross
vehicle weight of less than 2,500 kg which would be used in rural areas as
cargo vehicles for small-scale entrepreneurs and for transportation of mixed
cargo and passengers. These multi-purpose vehicles, owned and operated by
local entrepreneurs, are the traditional means used by small farmers to market
their produce and to transport production inputs to their farms. No financ-
ing of light trucks would be undertaken in the Greater Manila area, to mini-
mize the likelihood of project vehicles being used exclusively for passenger
transportation. Despite an apparent need for more cargo transportation capa-
city in most areas in the Philippines, financing of heavy and medium trucks
would be discontinued under the project because of the relatively good finan-
cial position of cargo businesses, enabling them to use other sources of
financing.
(c) Cottage and Agro-Industries. (Annex 9)
5.07      This category would include about 225 sub-projects covering a
wide range of cottage and agro-industries such as rice milling, farm implement
manufacturing, woodworking, handicrafts and manufacturing of concrete pipes
and tiles. It would enable rural banks to diversify their lending operations
and serve a wider segment of the rural population. The Bank's Small and
Medium Industries Development Project (Loan 1120-PH, US$30.0 million) also
provides funds for agro-industries through rural banks but the scale of sub-
loan under the proposed project would be smaller. The number of rural banks
able to extend and supervise smaller sub-loans would be significantly higher
than those eligible to participate in the Bank's Small and Medium Industries
Development Project through CB's Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF).
(d) Coastal and Inland Fisheries. (Annex 10)
5.08      Fisheries sub-projects would include about 45 small coastal fishing
boats (basnig boats ) and equipment, and about 1,200 inland fishponds and
fishpens with a total area of 6,000 ha. Boats of simple traditional design
would be manufactured in small local yards, purchased by local entrepreneurs,
and crewed by local fishermen usually on a catch-sharing basis. The maximum
size of a boat financed would be increased from 20 gross tons under the Third
Project to 40 gross tons in order to permit access to better, more distant
fishing grounds. The average size of fishponds and fishpens would be 5 ha.
The Bank's Second Fisheries Credit Project (Loan 1270-PH, US$12.0 million)
presently administered by DBP would finance larger boats (of 45 gross tons
and above) and fishponds (an average size of 24 ha) and would have no over-
lap with the proposed project.



- 17 -
(e)  Small-Scale Livestock Development. (Annex 11)
5.09      About 3,240 small-scale livestock sub-projects (1,240 for poultry,
1,000 for pig and 1,000 for cattle breeding and fattening) would be included
under the project to meet the cost of initial stock, pens and shelters,
feed and other inputs. Poultry and pig sub-projects financed under the
project would generally be smaller than those to be financed by the Bank's
Second Livestock Project (Loan 1225-PH, US$20.0 million) administered by
DBP. The scale of backyard cattle breeding/fattening farms financed under
the project would be similar to that under the Livestock Project but only
200 such sub-loans are included under the latter project, and geographic
coverage by rural banks, being more extensive than that of DBP branches,
would permit the proposed project to meet demand not served through the
Livestock Project.
(f) Study of Farm Mechanization (Annex 12)
5.10      The benefits of farm mechanization in terms of increased food pro-
duction have been demonstrated in some countries to be offset to some extent
by detrimental economic and social effects, particularly the displacement of
unskilled labor. Economic and social patterns within the area in question
and the nature of mechanization taking place are key determinants of these
undesirable effects, and evidence that has been acquired for the Philippines
suggests that labor displacement on an annual or area basis is not taking
place. However, a thorough study of the impact of mechanization, both its
advantages and disadvantages, has not been conducted on a sufficiently large
scale to form the basis for long-term Government policy on mechanization.
The project would therefore include a study to assess the financial, economic
and social impact of farm mechanization. Assurances were obtained that quali-
fied consultants would be engaged on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank to conduct this study and that terms of reference for the study would be
acceptable to the Bank. Also, a preliminary draft of the study would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for its comments.
(g) Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project
(Annex 8)
5.11      With the rapid expansion of farm mechanization in recent years,
there has been a proliferation of local manufacturing firms and importers.
The proposed project would include an Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evalua-
tion and Standardization Project to set quality standards for agricultural
machinery and to conduct performance testing against such standards. The
Project would be located on the campus of the University of the Philippines
at Los Banos (UPLB) and be directed by a senior member of the Department of
Agricultural Engineering. The following would be the principal objectives
and activities: (i) develop quality and performance standards for Philippines
farming conditions and types of equipment used in the Philippines; (ii) con-
duct field, shop and laboratory testing of equipment to determine capacity
and conformity with relevant standards; and (iii) evaluate post-purchase parts
and service support. The Project would issue its factual results in bulletin
form and would not recommend any products or processes. Assurance were



- 18 -
obtained that the Project would be established at UPLB with organization,
staff and facilities acceptable to the Bank, and would thereafter be main-
tained beyond the period of the proposed Bank project.
(h) Training
5.12      The project would provide funds to augment the ongoing training
programs of CB for its own staff and staff of rural banks and SSLAs.
Areas of concentration under the project would include: the evaluation
of cottage and agro-industrial sub-projects, for which courses would be
designed for both CB and on-lending bank staff; and farm budgeting and plan-
ning, for the technical staff of on-lending banks. Courses would be
designed and conducted by CB with the use of non-CB resource staff as
appropriate. A handbook would also be prepared for the field staff of
on-lending banks and CB, covering all phases of lending operations. The
purpose of this handbook would be to standardize the quality and nature
of design, appraisal and supervision of production and term credit loans.
Assurances were obtained that qualified consultants would be engaged on
terms and condition acceptable to the Bank to assist in preparation of
the handbook and that the outline of the handbook would be acceptable to
the Bank. A preliminary draft of the handbook would also be submitted to
Bank for its comments.
(i) Service Vehicles
5.13      Under the Second Loan in 1969, 61 service vehicles were financed
for CB field staff. Since that time, field staff have more than doubled,
and an additional sixty vehicles would be provided to meet the needs of
these officers in their bank and sub-project review work.
Summary of Sub-Loan Items
5.14      The following summary of sub-loan items is presented in terms
of December 1975 prices.



-19 -
Number of      ------      Total Cost ----------------
Items                Units         Million Pesos         Million US Dollars
Tractors                   1,775            259.9                   34.7
Power Tillers              7,800             64.8                    8.6
Portable Threshers           600              8.0                    1.1
Irrigation Pumps             400              7.0                    0.9
Other Implements             240              6.8                    0.9
Light Trucks                 400              8.8                    1.2
Coastal Fishing Boats         45             13.4                    1.8
Fishponds                  1,165             80.0                   10.7
Fishpens                      50              6.3                    0.8
Poultry                    1,240             20.1                    2.7
Pigs                       1,000             22.0                    2.9
Cattle Breeding/
Fattening               1,000               5.3                   0.7
Cottage and Agro-
Industries                225              39.2                   5.2
Total               15,940            541.6                   72.2
Project Area
5.15      The project would be country-wide in scope although coverage in
terms of individual communities would depend on participation by rural
banks and SSLAs. Only about 100 rural banks are expected to participate
in the project during the first six months as a result of the enforcement
of arrears criteria. Participation may be expected to increase gradually
as more rural banks reduce arrears to acceptable levels (para 6.09). The
distribution of on-lending institutions will remain approximately as it was
under the Third Project: two-thirds in Luzon, and the balance evenly dis-
tributed in the Visayas and Mindanao.  The expanded coverage of cottage and
agro-industries is likely to induce greater participation among SSLAs in the
small municipal centers of the country.
Cost Estimates
5.16      Total project cost is estimated to be US$91.3 million.  To
ensure sufficient funds for a steady flow of sub-projects over the pro-
posed three year period, a price contingency of 13.7% has been added to
the December 1976 base cost estimates. I/ The estimated foreign exchange
component is US$29.4 million (32%).
1/   Financial and economic evaluation has been conducted on the basis of
cost prevailing at the time of project preparation, December 1975. How-
ever, for this aggregate cost table, the base cost estimate has been
adjusted to December 1976 levels by adding estimated cost increases of
9% for equipment and 11% for civil works. To December 1976 costs, price
contingencies have been added as follows:
1977       1978           1979
i.  Equipment                    8%          8%             8%
ii.  Civil works                 11%         12%            12%
Commitment Ratio         80:20        65:35          55:45
(i:ii)



- 20 -
Million Pesos             Million US$        Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Farm Mechanization    228.8  154.9   377.7       29.7   20.7    50.4      42
Light Transportation    5.8    3.8       9.6      0.8    0.5      1.3     40
Fisheries Development  94.3   15.4   109.7       12.6    2.0    14.6      14
Small-Scale Live-
stock Development    46,7    5.2    51.9        6.2    0.7     6.9      10
Cottage and Agro-
Industries            31.7   11.7    43.4       4.2    1.6      5.8     27
Sub-Total        401.3  191.0   592,3       53.5   25.5    79.0      32
Training                 1.8     -       1.8      0.2     -       0.2      0
Study                    0.7     -      0.7       0.1     -       0.1      0
Vehicles                 1.6    1.7     3.3       0.2    0.3      0.5     50
Agricultural
Machinery
Testing, Evaluation   3.1    0.7      3.8       0.4    0.1      0.5     19
and Standardization
Project
Sub-Total          7.2    2.4      9.6       0.9    0.4     1.3      24
Base Cost Estimate    408.5  193.4   601.9       54.4   25.9    80.3      32
Price Contingency       56.1   26.4    82.5       7.5    3.5    11.0      32
Total Project Cost    464.6  219.8   684.4       61.9   29.4    91.3      32
Financing
5.17      Total project costs of US$91.3 million equivalent would be financed
as follows:
Million US$       Million Pesos         Percent
IBRD                       36.5                273.8                40
CB/Government              36.6                273.8                40
Rural Banks/SSLAs           9.1                 68.4                10 /a
Beneficiaries               9.1                 68.4                10
Total                 91.3                684.4               100
/a   Average figure.  Rural Banks in operation for less than three years
and with a net worth not exceeding P 500,000 may be authorized to
contribute only 5%.



- 21 -
Bank funds would be lent to CB. Together with the Government and CB contri-
bution, loan proceeds would be onlent to rural banks and SSLAs in the form of
Special Time Deposits. A minimum contribution of 10% would be required of
rural banks and SSLAs except in the case of recently established rural banks
with limited resources (net worth less than P 500,000), in which case the
minimum contribution would be 5%. The minimum sub-borrower's contribution
would be 10%. Terms and conditions for the release of project funds would
be set out in the Rules and Regulations governing the program, and assurances
were obtained that the Rules and Regulations, and changes thereto, would be
subject to Bank approval. Funds for AMTESP would be transferred from CB to
the Department of Agriculture which would in turn allocate them to AMTESP.
Procurement
5.18      As in the Third Project, machinery and equipment, including trucks,
irrigation pumps, engines and equipment for fishing boats, and machinery and
equipment for cottage and agro-industries would be purchased locally by sub-
borrowers under initial supervision of the on-lending institution. There is
adequate representation of major international manufacturers. Sufficient
private contractors are available for construction of boats, buildings and
other civil works. Building materials, including lumber and cement, are pro-
duced locally. The size of individual contracts would be too small for inter-
national competitive bidding and bulking of contracts would not be practicable
because of their wide dispersal both in location and time. All sub-project
contracts would be made through ordinary commercial channels and assurances
were obtained that at least three price quotations would be required for
all sub-project contracts in excess of P 10,000 except in remote areas where
supplier representation is insufficient, in which case a certified statement
to that effect by the financing institution would be required. The purchase
of service vehicles by CB would be through local competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.19      CB would modify its present ceiling price guidelines on four-wheel
tractors and imported power tillers so that the maximum retail prices to be
considered for financing under the project would be 170% of the bodega (ware-
houses) cost for four-wheel tractors and 175% for imported power tillers, the
bodega cost being defined as the sum of (a) c.i.f. Manila, (b) 30% of c.i.f.
Manila (42% for imported power tillers) primarily to cover duties and taxes but
also including miscellaneous costs, and (c) the direct cost of local content 1/,
Prices would vary by models. Monitoring of these tractor and tiller prices
would continue to be the responsibility of DRBSLA.
1/   The approximate effect of these price revisions would be to reduce
tractor prices on average by 11% and imported tiller prices on aver-
age by about 15%.



- 22 -
Disbursement
5.20      Disbursement of loan proceeds to CB would be as follows:
(i) 45% of the sub-loans disbursed by rural banks and SSLAs,
against certified statements of expenditures;
(ii) 40% of the costs of instruction, materials and rental of
facilities for training and the preparation of a credit
handbook, against certified statements of expenditures;
(iii) 100% of the c.i.f., ex-factory cost of vehicles, or
40% off-the-shelf, against invoice;
(iv) 40% of the cost of the farm mechanization study, against
certified statements of expenditures; and
(v) 66% of the cost of civil works and equipment contracts for
the Agriculture Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardi-
zation Project, against invoice, to be passed on to the
Department of Agriculture.
5.21      In the case of disbursement against certified statements of
expenditures, supporting documentation would not be submitted for review but
would be retained by CB and available for inspection by the Bank during the
course of project supervision. An estimated quarterly schedule of disburse-
ments appears in Annex 14.
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      The credit component of the project together with related training
and support facilities would, as with previous Rural Credit Projects, be the
responsibility of CB's DRBSLA. Funds for the Agricultural Machinery Testing,
Evaluation and Standardization Project would be channelled through the
Department of Agriculture to the University of the Philipines at Los Banos
(UPLB).
Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations.
6.02      Organization.  DRBSLA is headed by a Director who is supported in
overall department management by an Associate Director. The Department's
eight operating divisions responsible for supervision and sub-loan assistance
under special schemes are grouped according to geographic jurisdiction and,
together with the Accounting and Special Services Division, are placed under
one of the three Assistant Directors. DRBSLA is the largest department in CB
with over 700 staff. Its functions are distinguishable broadly into two dis-
tinct categories; credit activities, and audit and examination of rural banks
and SSLAs. Although present policy within CB limits management of departments



- 23 -
to only one Associate Director, the size and nature of DRBSLA's responsibili-
ties appears to warrant positions for two Associate Directors. Field-based
staff such as Agricultural Credit Supervisors and members of Loan Teams are
under the direct supervision of the Division responsible for the territory
to which they are assigned. Training, legal services, statistical operations
and other required services are separately managed within the Department. The
Technical Support and Evaluation Unit was established under the Third Project
in the Office of the Director. Members of the Unit have developed good work-
ing ties with field staff, particularly Loan Teams, and this organizational
arrangement would continue under the proposed project.
6.03      Project Implementation.  The Director, DRBSLA would assume overall
responsibility for implementation of all aspects of the project except
AMTESP (para 6.12). At the outset, the following cycle and responsibilities
would apply to sub-loans: a technician of the on-lending institution would
prepare the sub-project, generally with the assistance of a CB Agricultural
Credit Supervisor or Loan Team member; the on-lending institution would
conduct credit and collateral checks, assemble the sub-loan application and
supporting documentation, and submit these to the Loan Team; the Loan Team
would conduct an appraisal of the proposal and, if it is approved, would
submit its recommendation to DRBSLA together with documents of obligation on
the part of the on-lending institution; upon release of Special Time Deposits
by the Accounting and Special Services Division, which would be released under
the proposed project by four Loan Teams located at three regional offices and
at headquarters, in the name of the on-lending institution, disbursement
against sub-borrower contracts would be made by the on-lending institution,
direct to suppliers where possible. The authorities and responsibilities
described above would change gradually under the project as the Department
begins to introduce more decentralized decision-making and administrative
processes.
6.04      Decentralization of DRBSLA Operations.  It is the intention of the
Department to decentralize its operations increasingly to regional offices of
CB in order to expedite the release and recovery of funds and improve the
supervision of financial institutions. In the context of term lending opera-
tions and the CB:IBRD program, decentralization would take several specific
forms.
(a)  Evaluation of sub-loan proposals would be gradually
transferred to selected rural banks from Loan Teams.
This transfer must be gradual, establishing in effect
free limits for qualified banks within which they would
be authorized to approve specific types of sub-loans,
subject to technical support and post-approval audit by
Loan Teams. Such authority would be granted and amended
on a bank by bank basis by the Director, DRBSLA, acting
on recommendation of the Loan Team of the region. Assur-
ances were obtained that steps would be taken to imple-
ment this tranfer.



- 24 -
(b)  Funding authority under the program is to be decentralized
to the four Loan Teams located at the three CB regional offices
and at headquarters to reduce delays in the flow of funds
which tend to arise as a result of fund releases taking place
in Manila. Supervision of sub-loan collections from banks
would be undertaken by Loan Teams. In effect the role of Loan
Teams is to shift toward program management and technical back-
stopping from the present function of direct operational involve-
ment with each sub-loan application.
6.05      Loan Teams.  The number of Loan Teams would be the same, but the
number of officers in each would increase from three to six (eight for Teams in
charge of issuing Special Time Deposits). In addition, one clerical position
would be created in each Team. Although actual sub-loan appraisal will grad-
ually become the responsibility of the financial institutions, the work of
the Loan Team will become increasingly important in on-the-job training of
rural bank and SSLA appraisal and supervision staff. The technical expertise
required for individual Teams will vary depending on the prevalent types of
sub-loans being extended within respective regions. The composition of Loan
Teams would also shift to include a higher calibre of financial management to
perform the program management functions envisaged for the Teams in the long
run.
6.06      Technical Support and Evaluation Unit (TSEU).  TSEU's role with
respect to the CB:IBRD Program would continue to be essentially one of mon-
itoring, evaluation and technical support for field operations. The Unit
has developed a high standard of work. Under the Fourth Project the Unit
would, in addition to its ongoing supervision, oversee requirements with
respect to the share of loans extended to small farmers, and the regional
distribution of sub-loans. To date the work of TSEU has been limited to term
lending under the CB:IBRD program. In keeping with the objective of integrat-
ing all credit operations in the Department, and to meet a growing need for
staff support of CB representation in multi-agency credit bodies, assurances
were obtained that the Unit would, coincident with the beginning the Fourth
Project, undertake responsibility for staff support pertaining to the Depart-
ment's short-term production credit activities as well. This would include
the following functions:
(a)  to serve as a permanent secretariat for the Department's
representative to the Technical Board on Agricultural
Credit, the National Food and Agriculture Council and the
National Commission on Countryside Credit and Collection.
This function will be particularly important in the pre-
paration of background papers in support of CB positions to
be taken in these bodies. Such work is now done on an ad
hoc basis by staff borrowed from operating divisions.
(b) to develop operating policies and procedures for special
financing schemes for which the Department is charged
with implementation responsibility.



- 25 -
(c) to evaluate on-going and pilot schemes such as the Inte-
grated Agricultural Financing scheme which is now under
trial through 18 rural banks. 1/
6.07      Management Advisory Unit (MAU).  This Unit would be established to
provide assistance to rural banks in areas of management in which widespread
or critical weaknesses have been encountered. It would not assume routine
supervisory responsibilities but rather would work closely with field and
head office staff to identify problems for its attention and would respond
to requests by rural bank or SSLA management for special assistance on an
individual basis. Despite the fact that CB staff, as representatives of
the regulatory and major financing agency of rural banks, would probably en-
counter difficulty in gaining the confidence and candor of rural bank managers,
there are several problem areas in which such a Unit could provide effective
assistance, for example: budgeting, solicitation of deposits, cash management
and cash flow projections, staff utilization, sub-loan supervision, and col-
lection procedures. MAU, to be responsible to the Director, DRBSLA, would be
headed by an Assistant Director. A Technical Assistant, three officers of the
rank of Division Chief (two certified public accountants and one agricultura-
list) and four to eight additional officers plus two clerical support positions
would comprise the Unit. It would be essential to the effectiveness of the
Unit's work that officers of these senior ranks be selected on the basis of
extensive experience in the managerial problems of rural banks. Assurances
were obtained that this Unit would be established and staffed by experienced
officers and would thereafter be maintained.
Lending Policies, Terms and Criteria
6.08      CB has established minimum standards for the participation of
rural banks and SSLAs in the Rural Credit Projects. The criteria include:
(a) character, competence and integrity of officers;
(b) past performance as to soundness of investments and
compliance with the law, regulations and generally
accepted banking practice;
(c) soundness of financial position, based on liquidity,
adequacy of equity and profitability;
(d) period of operation not less than one year;
(e) rediscounting facilities with CB not withdrawn; and
(f) maximum arrears limitation.
1/   Under this scheme the overall credit needs of individual farmers
are provided on the basis of a farm plan and continuing evaluation
and supervision in contrast to the traditional crop- or project-specific
extension of credit.



- 26 -
6.09      The arrears criteria for participation under the proposed project
would be specified as maximum allowable percentages of arrears to total loan
portfolio and of arrears to demand on medium- and long-term loans. Assurances
were obtained that the following criteria would be applied without prejudice
to efforts to further reduce levels of non-payment:
(i)  arrears not exceeding 25% of total loan portfolio;
(ii) arrears on term loans not exceeding 30% of demand,
arrears being defined as "amounts due at the end
of a twelve month period as a percentage of demand",
and demand being defined as "principal and interest
falling due during the period plus overdues at the
beginning of the period";
(iii) effective January 1, 1978, arrears not exceeding
25% of demand as defined above (ii); and
(iv) effective July 1, 1978, arrears not exceeding 20%
of demand, as defined above (ii).
Assurances were obtained that the Government would undertake a detailed
study of the causes of arrears in rural bank and SSLA portfolios and that
this study would be completed and made available to the Bank for discussion
by December 31, 1977, together with a plan of action for the reduction of
these arrears.
6.10      The Bank loan would be for a period of 15 years, including a four
and one-half year grace period, at standard Bank rate of interest. The pro-
posed grace period would be appropriate, allowing for a four and one-half year
disbursement period and possible slippage in project implementation. The lend-
ing rate to the ultimate beneficiaries would be 14%, 2% higher than the rate
charged under Government supervised food grain production credit programs,
with the exception of 12% to agrarian reform beneficiaries. The participating
institutions would be charged a blended rate of not less than 9%, with the
exception that, for sub-loans to finance agrarian reform beneficiaries, the
rate would be 7%, thus maintaining a margin of 5%. This spread is reasonable
to cover the high administrative cost of dealing with small term loans. The
period of CB loans to participating institutions would coincide approximately
with those for sub-loans to the ultimate beneficiaries. Foreign exchange risk
would be born by CB, while the financial risk of sub-loans would be the res-
ponsibility of the participating financial institution. The amount of sub-
loans would not exceed 70% of the value of titled properties or 50% of the
value of untitled properties offered as security.
6.11      Audit.  Auditing procedures are satisfactory with respect to the
enforcement of regulations and accounting practices. However, there is
scope for improving the effectiveness of CB auditing as a means of improving
management information in rural banks and advising on the use of available
information in portfolio management. As required by law, DRBSLA would audit
each rural bank and SSLA every year; special examinations would also be con-
ducted of rural banks and SSLAs with serious operational difficulties or



- 27 -
management problems. In addition, the resident examiner system under imple-
mentation now would allow monitoring of operations on a daily basis as well.
The records of audit of participating banks would be retained on file at CB.
Organization of Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization
Project (AMTESP)
6.12      AMTESP would be operated as a separate activity of the Department of
Agricultural Engineering, the University of the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB)
and would be governed by a Board of Trustees or Advisory Council consisting of
representatives of UPLB, Department of Agriculture, International Rice Research
Institute, Agricultural Machinery Dealers Association, and Government financial
institutions engaged in the financing of farm machinery. The Project, to be
located at UPLB, would be managed and operated by UPLB under a budget and
policy decisions set by the Board (Council) and using full and part-time staff
appointed by the University's Department of Agricultural Engineering. Funds
for the Project would be channeled through the Department of Agriculture budget
which would also provide counterpart funds. Quarterly payments would be made
by the Department against the Project's approved budget, adjusted for short-
falls in actual expenditure. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be used to
finance equipment and civil works. Assurances were obtained that the Project
would be established with organization, staff and facilities acceptable to the
Bank and would thereafter be maintained beyond the period of the proposed Bank
project.
Project Monitoring
6.13      The reporting of progress under the Third Project by DRBSLA was
generally satisfactory and the overall pattern of reporting would continue
unchanged. However, assurances were obtained that TSEU would undertake a
review of present reports and propose changes as appropriate for discussion
with the first Bank supervision mission with respect to the following consid-
erations:
(i)  Improvements in the procedures for data collection
and the report formats themselves to reduce the
large volume of paper flow and the extent of
duplication in report content;
(ii)   Inclusion of pre-investment characteristics of sub-
borrowers in routine reporting; and
(iii)  Increased timeliness of reporting of project accounts
in individual banks.
TSEU would also be responsible for the monitoring of sub-loans to res-
tricted categories, to ensure compliance with price ceilings on tractors and
tillers, volume limitations on tractors, and the requirement that a minimum
of US$11 million of sub-loan proceeds accrue to the small beneficiaries
defined in para 5.02.



- 28 -
VII. MARKETS AND PRICES
Markets
7.01      The Philippines is expected to continue to be a net importer of rice
during the project period. Prices for domestic rice have more than doubled in
the past five years and now often exceed the floor price of P 1.00 per kg.
imposed by the National Grains Authority. Domestic production of white corn
for human consumption is sufficient to meet present demand, but substantial
imports of yellow corn will continue to be required to meet rapidly increasing
feed grain requirements. In 1974, the Government assumed monopoly control of
sugar marketing, establishing The Philippine Exchange Company (Philex) as the
sole exporter of sugar. Sugar production has increased steadily in recent
years and at the present time there is a surplus of sugar in the Philippines.
However, this surplus is primarily a result of marketing and shipping problems.
Philippine sugar exports go primarily to the United States and it is reasonable
to assume that sales to the country in the near future could rise above present
levels. Domestic demand for livestock products is expected to grow at 6% per
year over the next few years and production based on present investment pro-
grams would not keep pace (Annex 11). The same is true of fisheries production,
although it has doubled in the past ten years (Annex 10).
Prices
7.02      Prices used in the financial evaluation of sub-projects are those
which prevailed in December 1975, unless otherwise stated on grounds of
abnormal prices during that period. These market prices of inputs and outputs
have also been used in the economic analysis of the proposed project although
adjustments were made in investment costs to reflect estimated duties and
taxes. The relative prices of factors and products have been assumed constant.
Item                                       Price
(farm gate or ex-factory
depending on model)
Rice (palay)                            P 50/cavan (P 1.00 per kg)
Corn (yellow)                           P 45.6/cavan (P .8/kg)
Sugarcane                               P 158.25/ton (cane equivalent)
Beef                                    P 6/kg (liveweight)
Pork                                    P 7/kg (liveweight)
Feeder Hogs                             P 180 each (at 60 days)
Broilers                                P 8/kg (dressed weight)
Eggs                                    P .40 each
Fish:  Assorted open sea -              P 3,000/ton
Average fishpond/fishpen -       P 4,000/ton
Shrimp -                         P 10,000/ton



- 29 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      Production.  Project investments in farm mechanization and live-
stock and fisheries development would result in substantial increases in the
production of a number of agricultural commodities, notably rice, for which
Government policy is directed at attaining self-sufficiency. Investments in
cottage and agro-industries would expand production of a range of consumer
and small capital goods for domestic and export markets, and transportation
and machinery sub-projects would provide needed services in rural areas.
Total annual incremental output at full development (ranging from four to
ten years) is summarized in the following table:
Incremental              Gross Value
Production      Million Pesos  Million US$
Rice                          39,825 tons           39.8           5.3
Corn                           7,130 tons            5.7           0.8
Fish                          18,326 tons           85.4          11.4
Eggs                           1,102 tons            8.8           1.2
Poultry Meat                   1,799 tons           14.4           1.9
Pork                             150 tons            1.1           0.1
Beef                             847 tons            5.1           0.7
Weanlings                     67,000 heads          12.1           1.6
Cottage & Agro-Industries    (various)              98.3          13.1
Services
Land Preparation           314,130 ha            97.9           13.0
Transportation
(Excluding passengers)      4.8 million           1.4           0.2
ton/km
Rice Threshing             144,000 tons            7.2           1.0
Rice Milling                37,500 tons           2.2           0.3
Total Value                                       379.4           50.6
8.02      Financial Viability.  Financial rates of return on sub-project
categories other than power tillers range from about 13% to over 100%.
As discussed in para 5.04 the financial return on tiller investments under
normal conditions is not attractive, estimated at 8.2%. However, protection
against probable incapacitation of the alternative animal draft power is a
major advantage which has not been quantified in our model due to the wide
range of reasonable assumptions which might be made. To illustrate the
possible impact, however, an assumption that one-half of one crop could not
be planted due to animal power shortage one out of five years would result in
a rate of return, ceteris paribus, of 43%. Rates of return on tractors are
lower than those which may be realized since they are based on 1,500 hrs
annual use whereas actual utilization is often 1,800 hrs or more. Rates of
return on fixed investments are very high for poultry, cattle, and cottage
and agro-industrial sub-projects. However, net cash flows for these sub-
projects are reasonable when viewed in terms of owner/operator labor



- 30 -
and management inputs and the total fixed and working capital at risk in these
ventures. A summary of estimated financial rates of return is presented in
the following table:
Category                         Financial Rate of Return
Tractor - sugarcane                              17%
- rice                                   13%
Power Tiller                                      8%
Portable Thresher                                58%
Fishing Boat                                     31%
Fishpond                                         31%
Fishpen                                          45%
Backyard Cattle Raising                    over 100%
Piggery                                          36%
Poultry - 200 Layers                       over 100%
- 400 Broilers                    over 100%
Cottage and Agro-Industries        44% to over 100%
The results of sensitivity analysis on these models is presented in Annex 16.
8.03      Economic Viability.  Economic costs of investment have been derived
by deducting duties and taxes from financial investment costs. Such duties
and taxes range between 10% and 20% on the landed cost of imported items, and
we estimate them to amount to 8% of total project cost, equivalent to about
25% of the foreign exchange component. Market prices of fertilizer and petro-
leum products approximate their economic costs and no shadow pricing of these
commodities has been undertaken. Similarly, unskilled labor has been costed
at its market rate since the majorty of the project's employment creation
would occur in accordance with the crop cycle, the primary determination
of employment in the rural Philippines. Including contingencies and the costs
associated with all supporting services financed by the project, and overall
economic rate of return of 21% has been estimated. A 10% increase in operating
costs would reduce the rate to 16% (Annex 17).
8.04      Foreign Exchange Impact.  The foreign exchange cost of the project
would be about US$29.2 million. In addition, spare parts, fuel and lubricants
would be about US$7.5 million per year. The project would generate some ex-
ports from cottage industries, about US$ 3.7 million per year. However, the
Philippines is a net importer of rice and fish, and the project's major contri-
bution to the balance of trade would be reduction in the import requirements
of these commodities. At a c.i.f. Manila price of $230 per ton, rice production
under the project would save about US$9.2 million per year in foreign exchange.
Assuming that only one-third of project fish production would substitute for
imported products a further US$3.8 million per year would be saved. On the
basis of these assumptions, the project would have a net impact on foreign
exchange of about US$9.2 million per year.
8.05      Employment Effect.  The project would create about 10,280 jobs
as a direct result of sub-loan investments. Indirect employment through
intensified agricultural production would be substantial - 4,600 man-years



- 31 -
per year in rice production alone - and productivity of labor would also be
increased. The majority of direct employment and all indirect agricultural
employment would be of an unskilled nature and therefore potentially avail-
able to the lowest income groups in the rural areas.
8.06      Benefits to Small Farmers and Fishermen.  Fifty seven percent of all
sub-projects other than tractors, amounting to about 31% of total sub-project
costs would go to small beneficiaries defined in para 5.02. Direct employ-
ment associated with these sub-loans would be about 2,200 man-years per
year. The total net income per year to these owners at full development is
expected to be P 54 million, or an average of P 5,445 per owner. In addi-
tion, a major benefit to smaller farmers under the project would be increased
availability of custom hire services, primarily for land preparation. We
estimate that the majority of the 310,000 ha per year custom hire capacity
generated by the project would be utilized on farms of less than seven ha.
8.07      Institutional Development.  The project would strengthen the capacity
of CB to provide technical and managerial support for the term credit opera-
tions of on-lending institutions. This assistance, together with project
supported training, would enhance the ability of participating institutions
to undertake sound appraisal and supervision of their own term credit loans.
In addition, more intensive supervision of rural banks would result on im-
proved overall portfolio management.
8.08      Project Risks.  Since this would be the fourth in a series of proj-
ects implemented through CB and rural banks and the second in which SSLAs
have participated, we do not envisage procedural delays in project imple-
mentation. The estimated schedule of disbursements takes into consideration
the likely effect of the enforcement of arrears criteria on the number of
rural bank participation in the project. Realization of the specific bene-
fits attributed to the proposed project however would depend on the extent
to which the Government and on-lending institutions can affect the following
shifts in emphasis from previous projects; an increase in the share of pro-
ceeds accruing to smaller borrowers, and greater sub-loan appraisal and super-
vision capacity on the part of on-lending institutions. These are difficult
undertakings and, while risks have been minimized in project design, success
will depend primarily on continuing commitment and effort on the part of those
responsible for project implementation.
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances were obtained from CB on the following matters:
(a) That at least US$11 million of loan proceeds would be
extended to small beneficiaries as defined in para 5.02
for purposes of the proposed project (para 5.02);
(b) That the financing of four-wheel tractors would not
exceed (para 5.03):



- 32 -
(i) US$16.5 million in loan proceeds for tractor sub-
loans; and
(ii) 1,000 units of tractors in excess of 68 hp each;
(c) That qualified consultants would be engaged on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank to conduct a
study of the financial, economic and social impact of
farm mechanization, that terms of reference for the
study would be acceptable to the Bank, and that a
preliminary draft of the study would be submitted to
the Bank for its comments (para 5.10);
(d) That Rules and Regulations governing the use of proj-
ect proceeds, and changes thereto, would be acceptable
to the Bank (para 5.17);
(e) That the maximum retail prices for four wheel tractors
and power tillers, including their optional equipment
and implements, would be determined in accordance with
guidelines set out in para 5.19 (para 5.19);
(f) That necessary steps would be taken to gradually transfer
lending authority, including evaluation, approval and
supervision of sub-loans to qualified rural banks and SSLAs
(para 6.04);
(g) That the Technical Support and Evaluation Unit would
be expanded to function as the departmental planning
unit covering both short- and long-term lending programs
(para 6.06); and
(h) That a Management Advisory Unit would be established in
DRBSLA and staffed with experienced senior officers, and
would thereafter be maintained (para 6.07).
9.02      Assurances were obtained from the Government on the following
matters:
(a) That an Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and
Standardization Project would be established at UPLB with
organization, staff and facilities acceptable to the Bank,
and would thereafter be maintained beyond the period of
the proposed Bank project period (para 5.11); and



- 33 -
(b) That a detailed study would be conducted of the causes
of arrears in rural bank and SSLA portfolios and that
this study would be completed and made available to
the Bank for discussion by December 31, 1977, together
with a plan of actions for the reduction of these
arrears (para 6.09).
9.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$36.5 million
at standard Bank lending rate of interest repayable over 15 years, including
a grace period of 4-1/2 years.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Small-Scale Agriculture in the Philippines
I. Background
1.        The Rural Sector.  About 71% of the Philippine population lives in
rural areas. While there is a slow steady decline in this proportion, the
actual rural population is increasing at an annual rate of 2.7% standing at
approximately 30 million in 1975, of whom almost 20 million are engaged in
agriculture and 2 million in fisheries and forestry. Average rural family
income in 1971 was P 4,400 (US$680), about 75% of the national average. At
the same time, the share of earnings of the 40% of rural families with the
lowest incomes amounted to only 13%, while the earnings of the highest 20%
amounted to 51%. More recent data are not available but there is no evidence
of improved equity in income distribution. There are approximately 3 million
families engaged in agriculture in the Philippines (45% of total population)
of which 1.8 million are classified in the lower 40% income bracket; 1.4
million self-employed and 0.4 million wage earners.
2.        Farming Pattern.  There are about 6.7 million ha under cultiva-
tion in the Philippines (1974), of which about 30% is fully irrigated.
10.1 million ha are devoted to agricultural crop production. As shown in
Table 1, rice is the major crop, occupying 33% of total area, followed by
corn and coconuts. Together, these crops account for 93% of total area under
agricultural production. 1/
3.        The preponderance of small farmers grow rice or corn as their
primary crop, the former if irrigated, the latter otherwise.  These serve
subsistence needs and may yield sufficient surplus for cash sale, particu-
larly if there is sufficient moisture for double cropping. Otherwise, cash
income is generated by a crop with lower moisture requirement that may be
grown immediately after harvest of the rice or corn. Particularly in Luzon,
vegetables are fitted into the cropping pattern in this manner, although
corn is also widely used as a second crop after rice.
4.        Farm Size.  Current data on farm size are not available.  Figures
presented in this section should be viewed in the context of a historical
trend toward increased numbers and smaller sizes of farm holdings. The
Agrarian Reform Program will accelerate this trend.
1/   Figures refer to total area planted to individual crops in a one-year
period.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Distribution of Farm Holdings by Size
(1960)
Number of Farms       Total Area
('000)      %        ('000 ha)   %
Under 1 ha         250        11.5         125      1.6
1 - 1.9 ha         642        29.6         796    10.2
2 - 4.9 ha         864        39.9       2,426    31.2
5 - 9.9 ha         290        13.4       1,845    23.7
10 -24.9 ha         109         5.0       1,396    10.0
Over 25 ha          12         0.6       1,184    15.3
2,167       100.0      7,772   100.0
5.        Forty-one percent of the total number of farms in the Philippines
were less than two ha in size and occupied in total only 12% of the cultivated
area.  In the opposite extreme, 0.6% were more than 25 ha and accounted for
15% of the total cultivated area. More than 86% of farm holdings fell within
the limit of 7 ha placed on rice and corn lands under the Agrarian Reform
Program, and these account for 53% of cultivated area. More than 90% of farms
on which rice or corn are the major crop are less than 7 ha in size. 1/
6.        Land Tenure.  Approximately 45% of agricultural land holdings in
the Philippines are owner-operated (based on most recent census data, 1960)
and these account for 53% of total area. Forty percent are tenant-operated,
accounting for 26% of area. Tenant cultivation, however, is much more pre-
valent in rice and corn areas where 46% and 51% of holdings, respectively,
are operated in this manner.
Land Tenure Pattern
(1960)
Number of Farmers        Total Area
('000)          %      ('000 ha)   %
Owner                 968             45      4,133      53
Part Owner            311             14      1,140      15
Tenant                864             40      2,000      26
Other                   23             1        499       6
Total          2,166           100       7,772    100
1/   This survey was conducted 12 years before the 7 ha limit on rice and
corn holdings was announced under the Agrarian Reform Program; data
are not so likely therefore to be misrepresentative.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        Since the 1960 census, two pertinent developments have taken place:
the continued slow increase in total number of holdings as a result of lands
being divided among heirs; and, the introduction of agrarian reform legisla-
tions, RA 3844 in 1963 and Presidential Decree 27 (P.D. 27) in 1972.
8.        As of December 31, 1975 only 354 tenants had entered into purchase
agreements with the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) for lots totalling 279
ha under RA 3844. As of the same date, 17,941 tenants had received Certifi-
cates of Land Transfer in respect of a total area of 34,229 ha under P.D. 27.
Based on 1960 data, this represents less than a 2% shift in both numbers and
area from tenancy to ownership. It should be noted that Operation Land Transfer
under P.D. 27 is accelerating; by May 15, 1976, total area financed was 65,514
ha and the number of beneficiaries was 30,528. The area implicitly covered by
P.D. 27 is 780,000 ha with an estimated tenant family population of 418,000.
The average size of new owner holdings to date under P.D. 27 is 2.1 ha although,
in the event all areas and tenants are covered, this would be reduced to 1.9
ha.
II. The Small Farmer - A Problem of Definition
9.        There is a host of definitions of the small farmer in the Philippines.
For example:
Rural Banks Act (RA 720) Section 5 - "Loans or advances extended
by Rural Banks.. .shall be primarily for the purpose of meeting the
normal credit needs of any small farmer or farm family owning or
cultivating, the aggregate, no more than fifty hectares of land
devoted to agricultural production..."
Agrarian Reform Law (P.D. 27) - "... one who is the actual tiller
whether owner, amortizing owner or lessee, of not more than 7
hectares of rice or corn land".
Land Bank of the Philippines - "... a small farmer ... owns,
leases or holds a Certificate of Land Transfer to the land he
tills and ... is dependent for his survival on more than one
agricultural or agriculture-based activities. On average he
tills an area of not more than 7 hectares and earns a dis-
posable income of not more than F 3,000 per annum".
Lower 40% - On the basis of population, average income, and income
distribution figures for 1971, the income limit to define the lower
40% in rural areas would be about F 2,100 per annum. Were size of
land holding to be taken as a proxy for the earning potential of
cultivators, the lower 40% would be defined as those whose holdings
are less than two hectares.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Minimum Needs - Minimum cash requirements for a rural family of
six in the Philippines, assuming staple foods are home grown,
amounts to about P 4,000. Such a figure inevitably sparks con-
troversy because of regional variations and the concept of what
constitutes minimum needs. After rather extensive 4inquiry around
the Philippines we are satisfied that it is at least an appro-
priate order of magnitude. On the basis of models presented
elsewhere in this report we estimate that net income of P 4,000
would require 4 ha of single crop corn land or 1 ha of double
crop rice land, assuming the availability of appropriate seed,
fertilizer, water, and technical assistance inputs as well as
timely cultivation. (We have omitted the potential for non-
farm income). These areas would represent minima beneath
which both cultivation and development programs would have
to focus on off-farm income opportunities.
10.       These examples hint not only at the difficulty of arriving at a
general purpose definition of the small farmer, but also perhaps at the
meaninglessness of trying to do so. Definitions ought to be geared to
specific purposes. The Bank's Rural Development Sector Policy Paper points
out that, "The notion of target groups ... provides that necessary focus on
groups of the rural population in terms of whose well being ... program can
be designed and evaluated." It is at this point that we revert to the project
context in which our work was undertaken and develop a definition of the small
farmer for purposes of the Fourth Rural Credit Project. We hasten to add
however, that several of the considerations used in arriving at this dcfini-
tion may well be appropriate for other Bank lending for agricultural credit
in the Philippines.
Small Farmer Definition for Fourth Rural Credit Project.
11.       Considerations:
(i) Our purpose is to identify a group of potential borrowers
at the lower end of the income scale to whom project bene-
fits can be directed in greater measure than has been
achieved in the past.
(ii) The project will finance primarily medium- and long-term
credit needs. The greatest need of most of the smallest
cultivators at present is production credit and the pro-
vision of term credit to them may well be a financial
disservice.
(iii) Rural banks and savings and loan associations are private,
commercially oriented institutions, the inherent character-
istics of which do not suit them to serve as channels for
programs primarily of a social or economic nature.



ANNEX I
Page 5
(iv) The scope for introducing meaningful substitutes
for conventional loan collateral is very limited at
present, and financial intermediaries will continue
to depend heavily on real estate and chattel mortgages.
(v) To avoid undue risk in the portfolio of financial inter-
mediaries, a significant portion of loans must not be
directed to borrowers whose holdings do not afford them
a measure of financial stability. The target group must
be sufficiently broad to record economic success without
foreshadowing financial failure.
(vi) The break-even point for many of the investment items in
greatest demand exceeds the volume of work to be performed
on the smaller holdings. Time available for custom hiring
is limited, as is the requisite entrepreneurial skill, among
the smaller cultivators.
(vii) The limits incorporated in the definition must describe an
enterprise which constitutes the primary source of income.
12.       Definition.  For purposes of directing the CB:IBRD program more
toward small-scale agriculture, it is proposed that about 31% of sub-loan
proceeds under the Fourth Rural Credit Project be designated for the follow-
ing small beneficiaries:
(i) A sub-borrower whose total self-earned income per
year is less than P 7,500 1/, or
(ii) A sub-borrower whose self-earned income per year is P 7,500 or
more and who earns 75% or more of such income from the following:
-    agricultural operations carried out on a total land-
holding, owned or leased, of less than 7 ha;
-    a fishing enterprise, owned or leased and operated by him,
an consisting of not more than 5 ha of fishponds or fishpens,
or of not more than one fishing vessel, such vessel not to
exceed 5 tons; or
-    a cottage or agro-industrial enterprise, owned and
operated by him, and consisting of fixed assets of
less than P 100,000, excluding the value of land.
1/   A small scale livestock enterprise of not more than 10 sows, 200 layers,
400 broilers or five cattle or carabaos would usually be for this
category of small beneficiaries.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
13.       Scope of Definition.  While data are not precise and current, the
definition would include the following approximate percentages of total agri-
cultural enterprises in the Philippines:
-    99% of rice farms
-    90% of corn farms
-    60% of sugar farms
-    65% of coconut farms
-    the majority of livestock operations outside
Greater Manila
-    69% of fishpond operations
-    70% of fishpen operations
-    99% of fishing vessel operations
14.       In its simplicity, the proposed definition clearly ignores a number
of factors other than total size of enterprise which affect income: for
example, quality of soil, seeds, or water; whether land is irrigated or not;
etc. However, these omissions are intentional. We believe that a simple
definition is much more readily implemented and monitored, and since such
constraints on lending have not previously been imposed, ease of enforcement
will be critical to any effective redirection of the CB:IBRD program.
15.       Comment.  Unfortunately, no data have been compiled on the size of
enterprise to which sub-loans were made under the previous three Rural Credit
Projects. However, the size of sub-loans gives a fairly clear picture that,
despite the overwhelming size of the proposed target group, small farmers
did not benefit substantially from the previous loans, other than through
custom services. For example, under the Second Project, 56% of total loans
were in excess of P 16,000 ($2,105) each; 27% were in excess of P 40,000 ($5,480)
each, and only 20% were less than P 8,000 ($1,095) each. Adjusted to mid-1975
price levels, these figures would be approximately doubled. Under the Third
Project, the average size of sub-loans (through December 31, 1975) was more
than P 59,800 ($7,970). Statements of objectives for these previous projects
were consistent with Bank policies at the time of appraisal. However, the
sub-loan size figures above indicate that a change in project design and the
introduction of limits on certain categories will be necessary if significant
results are to be achieved in our present efforts to extend greater assistance
to small-scale agriculture. Under the Fourth Project, the average size of a
sub-loan is projected to be P 42,280 ($5,637), and a limit on the total volume
of larger sub-loans for tractors would also be imposed.
16.       Credit. 1/  The total supply of institutional credit to agriculture
has fluctuated during the last ten years with insignificant overall growth in
real terms. In current dollar terms credit rose by about 60% between 1972
and 1974 primarily as a result of the introduction of Masagana 99 and Masaga-
nang Maisan - supervised crop production credit programs. About 45% of the
1/   An overview of the agricultural credit sector in the Philippines is
presented in the Philippines Basic Economic Report, Vol. II, pp. 123-130.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
funds of these programs are channeled through rural banks and 50% through
Philippine National Bank (PNB). As a result of their participation in
these programs, the share of rural banks in total lending rose from 16% in
1972 to 22.9% in 1974. PNB's participation in these programs appears to have
been at the expense of increases in other lending since its share of total
lending remained approximately the same (26% in 1972; 27% in 1974). The
majority of lending by commercial banks has been for sugar production and the
financing of sugar and copra stocks.
17.       Availment of institutional credit by small farmers has been very
limited, the majority constraint being lack of real estate or acceptable
chattel collateral. The introduction of supervised credit together with
concommitant guarantee schemes was intended to compensate for the inadequacy
of collateral on the part of small borrowers. However, private financial
institutions have been reluctant to set aside collateral requirements and
where this has been done preference has been given to larger borrowers. For
example, the average size of holding financed under Masagana 99 (rice) is
2.5 ha compared to the average size of rice farm of 1.7 ha. The guarantee
system has not functioned effectively. Despite compulsory participation in
the scheme and widespread repayment default, approved bank claims under the
scheme are very small (P 13 million in 1975, or 1.6% of the value of loans
guaranteed).
18.       It has been estimated that about 2/3 of all credit for agriculture
comes from non-institutional sources. While some credit from relatives is
free of interest, traditional practice involves rates as high as 300% per
year equivalent, often paid in kind. It is to these sources of funds that
most small farmers must resort. Despite the high rates of interest and,
frequently, the tying up of product marketing on very poor terms, there
are significant advantages to the use of this credit: it is available on
short notice with few or no formalities, it may be used for a wider range
of production and consumption needs, and repayment periods are often
flexible. It is highly unlikely that non-institutional credit sources
could be rendered obsolete by changes in the modus operandi of credit
institutions. Nevertheless, the credit needs of small farmers could be met
to a much greater extent in the formal sector.
Desirable Characteristics of Credit for Small Farmers
19.       The financial affairs of the great majority of small farmers in
the Philippines have traditionally been overseen by a landlord or merchant
with whom the borrower usually has a lasting business tie. Despite the
advantage which might be taken of the borrower in such situations, he has
not developed in many cases even rudimentary money management skills. He
has a very high time preference for money and inadequate knowledge of cash
flow and repayment capacity. The concept of voluntary repayment has been
obviated by the forceful presence of the lender at the time loans fall due.
The first and most difficult feature of a good credit system for small
farmers is therefore that it be accompanied by practical education in the
use of credit.



ANNEX l
Page 8
20.       To the extent that smaller farmers have been able to avail them-
selves of institutional credit, a somewhat surprising problem has arisen,
namely that they have been able to obtain too much credit, and the debt burden
on a great many farmers now exceeds repayment capacity within a reasonable pe-
riod of time. It is not uncommon for example to find small farmers who, in
addition to land amortization payments under the Agrarian Reform Program, are
carrying a current crop loan under Masagana 99 as well as one or two restruc-
tured crop loans from previous seasons, and a medium-term loan for a power
tiller. The total annual payments in such a situation would range between
P 9,000 and P 12,000 for a 2 ha farm. Additional unfinanced production expenses
could be as high as P 2,000-P 3,000 depending on the availability of family
labor. When compared with an estimated gross income of about P 15,000 assuming
appropriate inputs and average good yields, net income would range from 0 to
P 4,000, the latter just equalling the estimated family requirements for mini-
mum essential purchases. Despite the desirability and public appeal of extend-
ing credit to small borrowers, a good credit program must recognize and avoid
the disservice inherent in excessive debt burden.
21.       Another essential feature of effective small farmer credit is that
it provides the appropriate balance of production and term credit. In many
cases, where financial stability of an enterprise is limited as is the
scope for diversification (for example, a small holding of a cultivator who
has depended heavily on a now displaced landlord and has therefore not
developed financial and technical skills) the appropriate balance for a
number of years may be 100% production credit. Capital goods typically
require more sophisticated management, a longer time perspective, ability
to plan, and the assured timely supply of a number of production inputs if
they are to be financially successful. In the absence of these, capital
assets may become a serious unproductive burden. Power tillers and backyard
livestock facilities are among the investments most commonly failing in
this respect, despite their potential utility in elevating the standards
of small farmers under the appropriate conditions.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Area and Production of Major Crops
(1974)
Area                % of Total                  Production
(Million ha)                                  Quantity       Value
(Million M.T.) (Billion Pesos)
Rice          3.4                     33                    5.6            5.0
Corn          2.8                     28                    2.3            1.5
Coconut       2.2                     22                Various            1.7
Sugar          .5                      5                    3.4            3.0
Vegetables    .2                       2                Various             .5
Abaca          .2                      2                     .1             .4
Tobacco        .1                      1                     .06            .3
Coffee         .1                      1                     .1             .3
Banana         .2                      2                    1.2            1.0
Other Fruits
and Nuts    .1                       1                     .9            1.1
Other Crops   .3                       3                Various             .3
Total        10.1                    100                   17.5           17.8
Source:  Department of Agriculture



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cottage and Agro-Industries in the Philippines
The Manufacturing Sector
1.        Of the 10,248 firms covered in the 1971 Annual Survey of Manufac-
tures (ASM), 8,203 (80%) were cottage industries made up largely of handi-
craft and traditional nonfactory units. They employed 16% of the labor
force and, with a notably low level of labor productivity, contributed
slightly less than 5% to gross value added in manufacturing. The ASM data
on cottage industries, however, are not complete, and do not include the
smallest "unorganized" firms with 1-4 workers. Unofficial estimates 1/
indicate a much larger role of cottage units in manufacturing employment
(75%) and value added (10%). The data are very weak for comparative pur-
poses. The remaining 2,045 establishments, those with 20 or more workers,
covered in the 1971 ASM make up, in contrast to the cottage sector, the
"modern" manufacturing sector.
TOTAL MANUFACTURING BY SIZE ESTABLISHMENTS, 1971 ASM
(Current Prices)
Gross          Labor
Scale      Establishments      Employment   Value Added   Productivity
No. of Workers    No.      %          No.    %    R Million  %  (Annual Value
per Worker in P)
Cottage 5-19    8,203   80.0        68,209  16.2      324    4.3    4,750
Small 20-99      1,363   13.3       56,489  13.4      693    9.3   12,270
Medium 100-199    291    2.8        40,222   9.6      790   10.6   19,650
Large 200+         391    3.8      256,297  60.8   5,641   75.7   22,010
Total     10,248  100.0      421,217 100.0   7,448  100.0   17,680
1/   Estimated by Ranis Mission for the ILO Report, Sharing in Development,
Geneva, 1974 (p. 142).



ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.        More reuant data on small industries as a group (here defined as
all firms with less than 50 workers) show that in 1973/74, they employed
nearly I million people or 68% of the total industrial labor force, and
accounted for 12-13% of total industrial value added. Of this share of
total industrial value added, about 6% was accounted for by firms with
1-4 workers, 3% by firms with 5-19 workers and 3-4% by firms with 20-49
workers. The respective shares of the same groups in total industrial
employment were estimated at 60%, 5.5% and 2.5%.
Historical Trends
3.        In the 1956-73 period, the importance of cottage industries employ-
ing 1-4 workers declined steadily in terms of industrial value added and
employment, while that of firms with 5-19 workers stagnated. However, during
the 1962-68 period (Table 5), firms with 5-19 workers grew at 13.8% in gross
value added compared to 8.2% for large-scale industry, at 5.8% compared to
2.2% in labor productivity, at 3.4% compared to 1.5% in number of establish-
ments, and at 6.3% compared to 5.9% in employment. Firms with 1-4 workers
grew at 1.3% per year in employment during those years but declined by 3.0%
per year thereafter. But in spite of the reversal of the 1962-68 period,
which appears to have been caused by special incentive laws passed at the
same time and a relaxation of foreign exchange controls, firms with less
than 20 workers not only declined in terms of their relative share in manu-
facturing compared to large-scale industries, but in the aggregate experienced
a decrease in their absolute rates of growth.
4.        As Table 5 indicates, during 1968-73, despite the stagnation in out-
put and the decline in employment, the number of firms with 5-19 workers rose
sharply; it grew at a rate of 4.3% a year compared to 3.4% in 1962-68 and 2.7%
in 1956-62. Between 1956 and 1973, the size of an average firm employing 20
or more workers doubled in employment terms (from 82 to 156 workers), and
grew 250% in terms of gross value added (from P 836,000 to P 2,043,000 at con-
stant 1967 prices). During the same period, the average firm in the small-
scale group (5-19 workers) declined in size from 10.2 to 7.6 workers in terms
of employment and from P 34,000 to P 20,000 in terms of gross value added.
There are no data available on firms with 1-4 workers. The increasing number
of small-scale firms, their diminishing average size, and the absolute decrease
in cottage industry employment noted in paragraph 3 seem to reflect the exist-
ence of both favorable and unfavorable factors: a continuous effort to improve
the industrial climate and encourage the emergence of vigorous local entrepre-
neurs, but at the same time a policy-induced proliferation of inefficient
units and the lack of a normal process of consolidation and growth from small-
to medium-sized units.
Factor Use
;5.       As in these and other countries, there is a definite pattern in
industries' proportional use of productive factors in the Philippines,
depending on the size of firm. The larger a firm, the more capital inten-
sive (in terms of fixed capital per worker) it tends to be and the higher



ANNEX 2
Page  3
level of labor productivity (in terms of value added per worker) it tends
to have.
FACTOR INTENSITY AND PRODUCTIVITY IN MANUFACTURING 1971
Size of Firms         Capital per         Value Added per      Capital Value
No. of Workers        Worker P'000         Worker P'000        Added Ratio /a
9- 19                  5.1                  5.9                   0.85
20- 99                 11.4                 12.3                    0.9
100-199                 14.0                 19.6                    0.7
200+                    22.3                 22.3                    1.0
/a   Book value of fixed assets.
Source: CSO
6.        The effect of the size of the firm on its capital productivity
(fixed capital needed to produce one unit of value added) is not clear above.
But when fixed assets are expressed in terms of replacement costs instead of
book value, small-scale firms definitely tend to need less capital for the
same amount of output. 1/
Regional Distribution
7.        Industry (except mining) and commerce are overwhelmingly concen-
trated in Region IV, which includes Metropolitan Manila (44.7% of GDP). There
is no other comparable concentration of activity, Small- and medium-scale
industries, which tend to cluster close to supply and demand and suitable
infrastructure and other services, are even more highly concentrated. About
65% of these firms are in Region IV, and of the balance 23% are found in the
five regions of greatest overall economic activity and urbanization. Firms
with 1-4 workers are by far the most dispersed. They are less dependent on
power and tend to process locally available materials for local markets.
Approximately three quarters of these smallest firms are in the food indus-
tries (milling, bakeries, etc.) and wearing apparel (garments, dressmaking,
etc.). There are fairly large numbers (about 5% of the total) in the textiles,
metal products, electrical machinery and transport equipment and repair shops
where they provide services as well as fabricating small parts and components.
Constraints on Cottage Industry Development
8.        In addition to the industrial policy constraints under which larger
scale industries have easier access to financial incentives and to industrial
financing and high levels of protection and inducements enabling the import
1/   See ILO Report, Sharing in Development, Geneva, 1974 (p. 144).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
of capital goods, components, and industrial raw materials at concessionary
rates, firms with less than 20 workers face problems of market accessibility,
domestically and in exporting, a frequent lack of adequate infrastructure
and support services, and have to meet complicated institutional requirements
to incorporate and to obtain financing and technical assistance.
9.        These constraints have been recognized by the Government and, in
keeping with the new policy of encouraging the growth of small-scale and cot-
tage industry in less developed regions, both financial and technical assist-
ance programs are now in operation and appear to be fairly effective, where
they reach the entrepreneurs. A major financing difficulty which remains is
the insistence by banking institutions on adequate collateral requirements.
Although the Department of Industry (DOI) has done notable work in implement-
ing technical assistance programs for small- and medium-scale industry, other
Government departments such as the Department of Trade, the Design Ceniter of
the Philippines, and the National Cottage Industries Development Authority
(NACIDA) have lacked the staff and funding to date to energetically improve
their technical assistance services particularly for export and national
marketing assistance, product quality and design standardization and in easing
institutional requirements for the establishment of a business firm. In par-
ticular, the separation of cottage industries administered by NACIDA and small
and medium industries in general, has left largely ignoted the need to multi-
ply the linkages between small- and large-scale industries, and has effectively
excluded cottage industries from the Government's SMI program. Thus, questions
on the organization of cottage industries, the need for industrial estates
programs, the value of producers and marketing cooperatives have been ignored
until very recently. In recent years the Government has greatly accelerated
its program to improve and develop basic infrastructure and supporting services.
Major highways and farm to market roads, ports, inter-islands shipping and
shipbuilding, rural electrification, water development and manpower training
are all being vigorously pursued. Much of the progress to date, has been
making good on the low levels of public investment which prevailed in the
1960s, but it should provide the necessary conditions under which the Govern-
ment's programs of industrial dispersal and small industry development can
succeed.
Conclusions
10.       It is clear from the previous discussion that the cottage and
small-scale industrial subsector has been and will remain an important
component of Philippine industry. The development of these sectors is highly
desirable on the grounds of their low capital use, their favorable produc-
tivity, and their role in maintaining the level of existing employment and
in generating new employment. A variety of policy, institutional and other
measures need to be changed, accelerated or begun. To revive and sustain
the growth in modern small-scale industries and to maintain the present
employment level in the cottage industry sector, policies will have to be
developed that eliminate the artificially-induced distortions in factor use
and which do not hinder Government programs to promote and develop small



ANNEX 2
Page 5
and medium industry. The cottage industry sector itself will have to receive
greater attention in order to find out where the potentials for sound growth
lie and which production units should be supported by Government programs if
the declining trend in this subsector is to be arrested. For it must be
clearly understood that the potential for growth in the cottage industry
subsector is very limited and that cottage industry cannot assume a major
role in future industrialization. In many fields of production, cottage
industry is not adequately suited to provide goods and services at a cost
and of a quality competitive with larger scale manufacturers using more
efficient production methods. If cottage industry is on balance able to
maintain its present employment levels over the next 10 years, itself an
optimistic assumption, it would result in a sharp drop in the subsector's
relative share in total industrial employment from 60% in 1974 to 42% in
1985.



PHII.IPPINES
FOURTH-RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment and Gross Output for Large Manufacturing Industries by Size of Establishment Based on Employment 1962, 1968, 1971, 1973
(percentages)
Scale                           Number of Establishments                      Gross Output                  Fixed Assets at Book Value                    Net Investment
1962     1968    1971    1973         1962 /a 1968    1971       1973        1962     1968    1971      1973       1962      1968    1971      1973
Small Scale
20-49 Employees             58.1     52.2    46.7    48.9           7.1      7.3      4.6      5.8        6.7      5.8      4.6       3.2       11.5      3.8      2.1      3.7
50-99                       16.9    21.2    19.9    20.4            7.2      8.5      7.6      8.5        7.7      7.4      4.7       5.5        7.7      4.6      4.6      5.4
Subtotal               75.0    73.4    66.6    69.3           14.3     15.8     12.2    14.3         14.4     13.2      9.3      8.7       19.2      8.4      6.7       9.1
Medium Scale
100-199 Employees           10.3     11.7     14.2    11.7        10.8    13.8       13.0     13.1       11.0     14.5      8.1      7.5        16.9      8.1      8.4      7.2
Large Scale
200-499 Employees           10.8      9.1     11.1      9.1       48.3    30.5    29.2    28.1           49.7    28.8    30.5    39.2           36.6    21.5    32.6    25.0
500 and above                4.0      5.8      8.0      9.9       26.6    39.9    45.5    44.5           24.9    43.5    52.1    44.6           27.3    62.0    52.3    58.7
Subtotal              14.8     14.9     19.1     19.0        74.9     70.4     74.7     72.6       74.6      72.3    82.6    83.8         63.9    83.5    84.9    83.7
Grand Total
All Manufacturing  100.1   100.0    99.9   100.0            100.0   100.0    99.9   100.0         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
/a  Unadjusted, therefore it excludes work in progress which is included in the data in later years.
Sources:  Bureau of the Census and Statistics, Annual Survey of Manufactures:   1962, 1968 and 1971, Manila, Philippines.
Bureau of the Census and Statistics, Preliminary Report on Annual Survey of Manufactures:   1973, Manila, Philippines.
November 17, 1976
-P



PHILIPPINES
FOURT11 RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Employment and Wages for Large Manufacturing Industries by Size of Establishments Based on Employment 1962, 1968, 1971, 1973
Payrolls & Extra Benefits               Wages per Worker /a                  Wages as % of Value
Scale                              Employment (as X)                  for Paid Employees (%)                    (P '000)                                Added
1962    1968    1971    1973         1962    1968    1971    1973         1962   1968    1971    1973           1962    1968    1971    1973
Small Scale
20-49 Employees            10.6    10.6       7.9     9.8         7.3     7.4      5.4      6.8        1.6      2.2      2.9     3.2       33.1    31.5    30.5    26.2
50-99     "                 8.4    10.7       8.1     9.3         7.1     9.1      6.6      7.5        2.0      2.7     3.6      3.8       32.9    31.5    24.o    24.5
Subtotal               19.0    21.3    16.0    19.1         14.4    16.5    12.0    14.3           1.8     2.4      3.3      3.5       33:0    31.5    26.6    25.2
Medium Scale
100-199 Employees          10.1    11.8    11.4    10.8         10.0    11.7    10.5    10.2           2.3      3.1     4.0      4.4       32.9    22.8    20.3    19.9
Large Scale
200-499 Employees          42.8    21.2    20.1    19.1         45.7    23.1    22.2    21.3           2.5      3.5     4.8      5.2       23.7    21.3    20.2    16.6
500 and above              28.1    45:6    52.5    51.0         29.9    48.7    55.3    54.2           2.5      3.4     4.6      5.0       24.6    24.4    21.4    19.7
Subtotal              70.9    66.8    72.6    70.1         75.6    71.8    77.5    75.5          2.5      3.4      4.6      5.1       24.0    23.3    21.0    18.7
Grand Total
All Manufacturing  100.0    99.9   100.0   100.0          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           2.4     3.2      4.3      4.7       25.7    24.3    21.5    19.5
/a Based on current prices.
Sources:  Bureau of the Census and Statistics, Annual Survey of Manufactures:  1962, 1968 and 1971, Manila, Philippines.
Bureau of the Census and Statistics, Preliminary Report on Annual Survey of Mlanufactures:  1973, Manila, Philippines.
November 17, 1976



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Contribution to Value Added, Factor Intensity and Productivity for Large Manufacturing Industries
By Size of Establishments Based on Employment,  1962, 1968, 1971, 1973
(In thousands pesos based on current prices)
Scale                              Census Value Added (%)           Value Added per Fixed Assets (O/K)   Value Added per Worker (O/L)                  Fixed Assets per Worker (K/L)
1962     1968     1971      1973       1962      1968     1971      1973       1962      1968     1971      1973       1962      1968     1971      1973
Small Scale
20-49 Employees               5.7      5.7       3.8      5.0         1.1      1.1       0.8      1.4         4.9      7.0       9.6     12.o         4.3      6.6      11.3      8.6
50-99      "                  5.5      7.0       5.9      6.0         1.0      1.0       1.3      1.0         6.0      8.5     14.9      15.5         6.2      8.4     11.4      15.7
Subtotal                11.2      12.7      9.7     11.0         1.1       1.0      1.1       1.1        5.4       7.8     12.3     13.8         5.1       7.5     11.4     12.0
Medium Scale
100-199 Employees             7.9     12.4      11.1     10.1         1.0      0.9       1.4      1.2         7.1     13.7     19.6      22.3         7.4     15.0      14.0     18.4
Large Scale
200-499 Employees            49.6     26.4    *23.6      25.1         1.3      1.0       0.8      0.6        10.6     16.2     23.7      51.4    .   7.9      16.6     29.8      54.3
500 and above                31.3     48.5      55.6     53.8         1.7      1.2       1.1      1.1        10.1     13.8     21.4      25.1         6.0     11.7     19.4      23.1
Subtotal               80.9     74.9      79.2     78.9         1.5       1.1      1.0      0.8        10.4     14.6      22.0     26.8         7.1     13.2      22.3     31.6
Grand Total
All Manuifacturing   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           1.3       1.1      1.0      0.9         9.1     13.0      20.2     23.8         6.8     12.2      19.6     26.4
Sources:   Bureau of the Census and Statistics, Annual Survey of Manufactures:   1962, 1968 and 1971, Manila, Philippines.
Bureau of the Census and Statistics, Preliminary Report on Annual Survey of Manufactures:   1973, Manila, Philippines.
November 17, 1976
r:r z
{5 
w 



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Basic Data for Large Manufacturink Industries by Size of Establishments Based on Employment, 1973
(current prices)
(In thousand pesos)
Payrolls
Working       Production and                     and Extra         Fixed          Fixed
Number of       Owners and    Related Workers    Total           Benefits for   Assets at         Assets per        Net          Gross         Census
Establishments  Unpaid Family    Plus Others    Employment  Paid Employees  Book Value  Establishment  Investment                  Output       Value Added
Small Scale
20-49 Employees   1,453                 888             43,615          44,605           82,574.1       318,439.8       333.1         23,086.2      858,579.0    270,262.1
50-99                 606               141             42,770          42,411          101,611.6      323,059.4        793.8         51,502.0   *1,419.072.2    422,960.9
Subtotal       2,059             1,029              86,385          87,016          184,185.7      641,499.2        470.6        74,588.2   2,277,651.2    693,223.o
Medium Scale
100-199 Employees   349                  18             48,554          49,172          160,230.7      562,163.7      1,931.8         93,993.6   2,425,205.5    790,328.4
Large Scale
200-499 Employees   272                   7             87,289          87,096          340,323.9   2,108,464.3    9,247.6           362,588.1   5,431.021.6  1,680,300.4
500 anid above        293                70            232,536         232,609          845,946.9   3,597,624.8   22,071.3           581,320.4   8,470,499.2  3,960,343.3
Sujbtotal       565                77             319,825        319,705        1,186,270.8   5,706,089.1    14,593.6          943,908.5  13,901,520.8  5,640,643.7
Grand Total           2,973             1,124             454,764        455,893        1,530,687.2   6,909,752.0    3,378.8    1,112,490.3  18,604,377.5  7,124,195.1
Sources:  Bureau of the Census and Statistics, Annual Survey of Manufactures:   1971, published 1973, Manila, Philippines.
Bureau of the Census and Statistics, Preliminary Report on Annual Survey of Manufactures: 1973, Manila, Philippines.
November 17, 1976
H1



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Growth of Manufacturing Industries, 1956-73
Annual Growth Rates
(in percent)
Category                                     1956        1962       1968       1973    1956-62  1962-68  1968-73  1956-73
Number of firms
20 or more workers                      1,833      2,180      2,385      2,912        2.9       1.5       4.1       2,8
5-19 workers                            5,375      6,289      7,673      9,469        2.7       3.4       4.3       3.4
Total                             7,208      8,469    10,058    12,381          2.7       2.9       4,2       3.2
Employment (in thousands)
20 or more workers                      150.9      230.5      325.1      454.4        7.3       5.9       6.9       6.7
5-19 workers                             54.9       48.0       69.2       72.4      -2.2        6.3       0.9       1.6
1-4 workers                             829.2      845.5      912.7      788.2       0.4        1.3     -3,0      -0.3
Total                           1,035.0   1,124.0   1,307.0   1,315.0           1.4       2.5       0.1       1.4
Value added (in millions of
pesos at 1967 prices)
20 or more workers                    1,532.8   2,769.9   4,457.2   5,948.0         10.3        8.2       5.9       8.3
5-19 workers                            181.8      132.3      266.9      191.3      -5.4       13.8     -7.0        0.3
Total                           1,714.6   2,902.2   4,724.0   6,139.3           9.2       8.5       5.4       7.8
Value added per worker (in thousands
of pesos at 1967 prices)
20 or more workers                       10.2       12.0       13.7       13.1       2.8       2.2      -1.0        1.5
5-19 workers                              3.3        2.8        3.9        2.6      -3.0        5.8     -7.3       -1.4
Average                                   8.3       10.4       12.0        11.7       3.8       2.4      -0.5       2.0
Note:  The implicit GDP deflator from the national accounts (revised April 23, 1975) was used in value added
computations.
Sources: Bureau of Census and Statistics (BCS), Annual Survey of Manufactures, 1969; preliminary results
of the Annual Survey of Manufactures, 1973; and national accounts.
November 17, 1976
X Z
,_m
(D n



1HI11LIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Total Lending and Loans Granted to Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry
by Principal Lending Institutions 1973-75
(Pesos Million)
1973                                          1974                                      1975
Loans to                                       Loans to                                  Loans to
Agriculture                                   Agriculture                                Agriculture
Total          Fisheries &         Percent       Total       Fisheries &    Percent         Total        Fisheries &      Percent
Institutions                                  Lending          Forestry           of Total    Lending         Forestry       of Total    Lending         Forestry         of Total
Commercial Banks I                            31,745.1           2,026.8              4.0       56,592.4      3,261.2            5.8         n.a.           n.a.            n.a.
Philippine National Bank                       3,782.4             901.2            24.0        10,060.4      1,954,2           19.4       18,554.4       2,182.5           11.8
Rural Banks                                    1,073.7             976.9             91.0        1,824.7      1,669.5           91.5        2,310.2       2,117.5           91.7
BANCOM and Private Development
Corporation                                 2,132.4              22.4             1.0         3,002.0         44.3            1.5        3,678.6          26.8            0.7
Development Bank of the Philippines              248.4             119.2            48.0           731.5        195.2          26.7         2,633.0         727.2           27.6
Private Development Banks                        326.5             160.2            49.1           122.8         60.5           49.3          189.9           95.2          50.1
Stock Savings and Loan Associattons              149.7               8.4              5.6          221.1         29.0           13.1          343.8          107.8          31.4
Agricultural Credit Administration                55.6              55.6           100.0            64.3         64.3          100.0           40.7          40.7          100.0
Total                       39,513.8           4,270.7             10.8       72,619.2       7.278.2          10.0       27,750.6        5,297.7          19.1
Source: Central Bank of the Philippines, Annual Reports; Philippines National Bank,
Annual Reports; CB, DRBSLA Statistics on Stock Savings and Loan Associations,
Rural Banks and CB-DER.
I/  Credits granted by commercial banks in 1974 (January-September).
Commercial bank figures in all yeara include large volume of trade financing in sugar and copra.
EAP Projects Department
July 6, 1976



FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Percentage of Agricultural Credit Lending by Principal Institutions
1973                            1974                     1975
Including     Excluding           Including      Excluding        Excluding
Commercial    Commercial          Commercial    Commercial        Commercial
Bank           Bank               Bank           Bank             Bank
Government Agencies
Philippine National Bank                  21.1           40.1                26.9           48.7             41.2
Development Bank of Philippines             2.8            5.3                2.7            4.9             13.7
Agricultural Credit Administration          1.3            2.5                  9            1.6                8
Sub-total                   25.2            47.9               30.5           55.2             55.7
Private Institutions
Commercial Banks                          47.4            -                  44.8
Rural Banks                               22.9           43.5                22.9           41.5             40.0
Private Development Banks                   3.8            7.2                  8            1.5              1.8
Bancom and Private Development
Corporation of the Philippines            5            1.0                   6            1.1                5
Stock Savings and Loan Associations          2               4                  4              7              2.0
Sub-total                   74.8           52.1                69.5           44.8             44.3
Total                  100.0          100.0               100.0          100.0            100.0
1/  Data not available for commercial banks.
EAP Projects Department
October 13, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of Previous Rural Credit Projects
The First Rural Credit Project
1.        IBRD contributed US$5.0 million to the First Rural Credit Project
(Loan 432-PH), which became effective on January 27, 1966 and was fully
disbursed by September 30, 1969. The project was a breakthrough in pro-
viding farmers, through qualified rural banks, with medium- and long-term
loans under supervised credit for the purchase of tractors, power tillers
and farm implements; swine, poultry and fishery development; and the con-
struction of private on-farm irrigation systems. Sub-projects with a total
cost of P 38.5 million were financed for about 2,600 farmer beneficiaries
through 148 rural banks. IBRD contributed P 21.4 million (55.4%) to project
cost, the Government and CB P 9.7 million (25.0%), rural banks P 1.8 million
(4.8%) and farmers and others P 5.7 million (14.8%). Of IBRD's contribution,
P 19.1 million (89.3%) was for 2,118 farm mechanization sub-loans and the
balance for irrigation, livestock and fishery development sub-projects.
The Second Rural Credit Project
2.        Loan Purpose and Volume.  To continue the First Project, a second
IBRD loan of US$12.5 million was provided under the Second Rural Credit
Project (Loan 607-PH) which became effective on August 14,1969. The loan
components remained basically the same with some diversification to enlarge
the number of crops to be financed and to include such items as storage and
processing facilities, which were introduced during project implementation.
As of the Closing Date, June 30, 1974, total credit extended through 228
participating rural banks to 4,065 farmer-borrowers amounted to P 146.8
million, summarized as follows:
Total Amount
of Sub-loans       % of Total
(P'000)
Farm Mechanization                 105,387               71.8
Irrigation                           2,911                2.0
Spraying Equipment                     763                 .5
Storage                              4,658                3.2
Transportation Equipment            12,813                8.7
Livestock                           11,098                7.6
Fisheries                            9,132                6.2
146,762              100.0



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        Project Financing.  The total cost of sub-projects under the Second
Project amounted to P 174.6 million of which the Bank contributed P 82.2 mil-
lion (47%), Government and CB P 49.1 million (28%), rural banks P 15.5 million
(9%), and borrowers P 27.8 million (16%). Rural bank contributions amounted
to less than the original 10% requirement primarily because during the course
of project implementation, the requirement was waived to encourage wider par-
ticipation by rural banks.
The Third Rural Credit Project
4.        Loan Purpose and Volume.  A third loan of US$22.0 million (1010-PH)
became effective on August 27, 1974. The project included financing of far-
mers, fishermen and rural entrepreneurs for farm mechanization, transporta-
tion, farm support facilities, coastal and mainland fisheries, small-scale
livestock and cottage industries. Funds were also provided for a study of
the financial and economic impact of the Rural Credit Projects. Closing
Date of the project is to be December 31, 1977, although final disbursement
of funds will probably precede that date, all funds having been committed
by the end of December 1975. Despite rapid price increase during the proj-
ect period demand for tractors and trucks far exceeded appraisal estimates.
Intensive promotion efforts by farm machinery dealers resulted in a shift
of project emphasis away from other components with the result that final
results of the project did not reflect the degree of diversification sought
at the time of appraisal.
Total Amount
of Sub-loans       % of Total
(P'000)
Farm Mechanization                 182,329                72.4
Irrigation                           2,527                 1.0
Sprayers, Driers and Threshers       1,345                  .5
Storage                                753                  .3
Repair and Machine Shops               234                  .1
Transportation Equipment            40,513                16.1
Livestock                           12,975                 5.2
Fisheries                           10,497                 4.1
Cottage/Agro-Industries                666                  .3
251,839              100.0
Fifty percent of all sub-loans, accounting for 50% of total loan value, were
extended to sub-borrowers in Luzon; 23%, accounting for 30% of total value,
went to sub-borrowers in Visayas; and 27%, accounting for 20% of total value
were in support of projects in Mindanao.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
5.        Project Financing.  The total cost of sub-projects under the Third
Project was P 342.7 million (US$46.9 million). The Bank contributed P 159.6
million equivalent (US$21.8 million) to sub-projects amounting to 47%; the
Government and CB, P 94.7 million or 27%; financing institutions, P 309 mil-
lion or 9%; and sub-borrowers, P 57.5 million or 17%.
6.        The maturities of the notes executed by a rural bank in favor of CB
corresponded approximately to the schedule of repayment by end-user borrowers;
the maximum period varied from 2 to 10 years, depending on sub-loan purposes
as follows:
Farm Implements                     2-4 years
Light Machinery                     3-5 years
Heavy Machinery                        7 years
Light Trucks                          5 years
Irrigation Equipment                  5 years
Irrigation Civil Work                10 years
Livestock Development               3-7 years
Fishing Boats                        10 years
Fishponds and Fishpens             3-10 years
Agro-Industries                        7 years
Cottage Industries                  3-5 years
7.        Disbursement.  Full disbursement is expected to be completed soon.
As of January 31, 1977, IBRD disbursements amounted to about US$21.98 mil-
lion. The balance outstanding of about US$20,000 is the unused portion of
funds allotted for the study to evaluate the impact of the CB:IBRD program.
A request for transfer of these funds to the sub-loan category is expected
shortly. Therefore, the original Closing Date of December 31, 1977 is ex-
pected to be accelerated to March 31, 1977.
Repayments under Previous CB:IBRD Projects
8.        As of April 30, 1976, arrears amounted to 24.6% of total outstand-
ing loans under the program (Table 3). Eighteen hundred and seven borrowers
were delinquent, about 950 of those under the Third Project representing
about 28% of borrowers under that project. The balance of 857 were borrowers
under the First and Second Projects and arrears under those projects account
for 70% of all arrears under the program. The major category of arrears is
tractor loans, accounting for 50% of arrears by number and 67% by amount.
While these numbers approximate the share of tractor loans in total financing,
such a default rate warrants serious examination. Borrowers for tractors
are usually large-scale entrepreneurs and farmers with more stable income
from several sources; custom hire service generates substantial cash flow.
In short, it is difficult to understand these high arrears without presuming
willful default.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of Previous Rural Credit Project
Summary of Sub-loans Released Under Second
Rural Credit Project (607-PH) 1/
(August 1969 - June 30, 1974)
No. of                     % of Total
Category                                Sub-Loans      Amount          Amount
(F' 000)
Farm Development
Four-Wheel Tractors                   1,694        92,910            63.3
Power Tillers                            942        12,477            8.5
Irrigation Pumps                         313         2,687            1.8
Spraying Equipment                        43           763             .5
2,992      108,837            74.1
Storage and Processing                   161         4,658            3.2
Wells and Distribution Works               5           225             .2
Cargo Trucks and Trailers                229       12,813             8.7
395       17,696            12.1
Livestock Development
Poultry                                  188         5,334            3.6
Service                                  225        5,764             3.9
413       11,098             7.5
Fisheries Development
Fishing Boats                             35         1,844            1.3
Fishponds                                230         7,287            5.0
265         9,131            6.3
Total                       4,065       146,762          100.0
1/ Source: Central Bank of the Philippines.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of Previous Rural Credit Project
Summary of Sub-loans Released Under the Third
Rural Credit Project (1010-PH) 1/
(As of April 30, 1976)
No. of                    % of Total
Category                                      Sub-Loans    Amount            Amount
(F'000)
Farm Mechanization
Tractors                                     1,761       157,900          62.7
Power Tillers                                1,169        24,429           9.7
2,930       182,329         72.4
On Farm Transportation Equipment
New Trucks and Trailers                        550        39,444          15.7
Reconditioned Trucks                            16         1,069           0.4
566       40,513          16.1
Farm Supplies, Facilities & Equipment
Storage Facilities                              10           753          0.3
Private Irrigation Facilities Including
Pumps                                       218         2,527          1.0
Sprayers, Grain   Driers, Threshers             59         1,345          0.5
Farm Machine Service & Machine Shops             6           234          0.1
293         4,859          1.9
Fisheries Development
Coastal Fishing Boats                           28         1,893           0.7
Fishponds & Fishpens                           156         8,604          3.4
184       10,497           4.1
Small-Scale Livestock Farm Development
Poultry Facilities & Initital Stock             64         4,976           2.0
Swine Facilities & Initial Stock               149         7,999          3.2
213       12,975           5.2
Cottage Agro-Industries
F-Meal Plants w/ or w/o Feed Mix Equipment   13              150          0.1
Woodcraft Manufacturing Facilities              12           516           0.2
25           666          0.3
Total                             4,211       251,839        100.0
1/ Source: Monthly Status Report on the CB:IBRD Agro-Industrial Financing
Program, DRBSLA.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of Previous Rural Credit Project
Arrears of Previous Projects as of April 30, 1976
No. of    Original                     No. of                 Percent
Delinquent   Amount       Amount       Delinquent    Total        of
Borrowers   of Loans  Outstanding  Amortizations Past Due  Arrears
(P'000)    (P'000)                      (P'000)
Tractors             909       59,007       51,670         1,883       13,529      67
Tillers              366       16,469       13,674            769       2,232      11
Trucks               126        7,640        6,027            128       1,323        6
Threshers             29          521          406             52          180      0
Irrigation Pumps    145         1,764        1,410           218           437      2
Rice Mills            13          725          577             35          286      1.4
Poultry               30        1,162          696             53          236       1.2
Piggery               92        2,727        2,384            171          731      3.7
Fishponds             82        2,994        2,328           163           357      1.8
Fishing Boats         25        2,001        1,706             33          487      2.4
Other                 15          345          307             29          167        .8
Total     1,807       95,355       81,185          3,534       19,965    100.0



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Central Bank of the Philippines
A. Organization and Management
1.        The Central Bank of the Philippines (CB) is a governmental fiscal
institution established and governed by the Central Bank Act (Republican
Act No. 265, as amended) to administer the monetary, banking and credit
system of the Philippines. Its major objectives are defined to: (a) main-
tain internal and external monetary stability; (b) preserve the international
value of peso and its convertibility into other freely convertible currencies
and (c) foster monetary, credit and exchange conditions conducive to a bal-
anced and sustainable growth of the economy.
2.        CB is governed by a seven member Monetary Board composed of the
Governor of CB as chairman, the Secretary of Finance, the Director General
of the National Economic Development Authority, the Chairman of the Board of
Investments, and three part-time members from the private sector. The chief
executive is the Governor, who is assisted by a Senior Deputy Governor, up
to five Deputy Governors, and staff at headquarters in Manila and three
regional offices in Cebu, Davao and La Union.
3.        According to Section 46 of the Central Bank Act, the Commissioner
of Audit acts as the ex-officio Auditor of CB and is authorized to appoint
a representative as the Auditor of CB. The Office of the Auditor now employs
a total staff of about 110 auditors, of which two are posted at the Depart-
ment of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations (DRBSLA), the depart-
ment responsible for the administration of the Rural Credit Projects. The
salaries and other expenses of maintaining the Office are paid by CB. The
audit performed is considered satisfactory.
B. Operational Aspects
4.        The paid-up capital is still P 10 million as at inception, but the
total net worth has increased to P 341 million at the end of December 1975.
During the preceding four years, liabilities increased to P 25,633 million,
while assets increased to P 25,974 million, an increase of almost four times
reflecting the rapid expansion of CB money supply. The major changes are
the increase of international reserves to P 10,205 million (570% increase),
and loans and advances to P 5,516 million (330% increase). The most signifi-
cant growth in liabilities has been in Certificates of Indebtedness, which



ANNEX 5
Page 2
rose to P 7,110 million (1,685%). Demand deposits from banking insti-
tutions also increased to P 3,648 million (300%).
5.        CB supports the supervised credit schemes mainly for food grain
production, by advancing Special Time Deposits (STDs) or by providing
rediscounting facilities to eligible banking institutions. The release of
STDs and provision of rediscounting in 1975 were as follows:
Special Time Deposits   Rediscounting
------------Pesos Million------------
Masagana 99                  209.6                567.0
Masaganang Maisan             22.7                  24.2
Vegetable                     14.7                  -
Livestock                     97.4                269.3
Cotton                         0.7                  -
Tobacco                        6.7                   0.8
Coconut                        -                   88.7
Fiheries                       -                   24.9
Abaca                          -                     1.5
Sugar                          -                   51.7
Others                         3.7                257.3
Total     355.5              1,285.4
C. Department of Rural Banks and Savings
and Loan Associations (DRBSLA)
Organization
6.        DRBSLA regulates and supervises the activites of rural banks and
savings and loan associations. With a reorganization implemented in 1976,
DRBSLA established three Supervised Credit Groups responsible for lending
operations on a regional basis. There were previously two function-wise
Groups, one responsible for short-term credit, and the other medium- and
long-term lending programs. The new structure is expected to unify and
improve departmental supervision of individual rural banks. Each Group is
headed by an Assistant Director and organized into several Divisions again
primarily along regional lines. In the context of the proposed project,
the Agricultural Credit Supervisors who would assist in the preparation of
farm and home plans and feasibility studies for loan proponents and the Loan
Teams who would be engaged in processing and sanctioning loan applications
are among the staff of these Groups.
7.        In addition to lending operations, one of the Groups also includes
the Accounting and Special Services Division and the Technical Evaluation and
Support Unit (TSEU) is responsible directly to the Office of the Director.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
The former would be responsible for handling of counterpart funds, claim for
reimbursements from the bank and preparation of periodic reports on progress
of project implementation and collection of overdues. (Release of funds under
the proposed project to participating banking institutions is to be trans-
ferred from the Division to four Loan Teams located at the three regional
offices and at headquarters). The latter is the planning unit of the Depart-
ment. Other Divisions and units in the Department would supervise and audit
rural banks and stock savings and loan associations (SSLAs) participating under
the Rural Credit Projects and would provide other necessary supporting services
such as training and legal services.
Management and Staff
8.        DRBSLA is managed by a Director and an Associate Director with sub-
stantial experience in dealing with rural banks and SSLAs. They are assisted
by twelve Assistant Directors and a staff of about 700. DRBSLA is the largest
department in CB and its functions are distinguishable broadly into two dis-
tinct categories; credit activities, and audit and examination of rural banks
and SSLAs. Although present policy within CB limits management of departments
to only one Associate Director, the size and nature of DRBSLA's responsibil-
ities appears to warrant positions for two Associate Directors.
9.        The three Supervised Credit Groups have a total staff of about 200,
of which about 70% are stationed in the field as Agricultural Credit Super-
visors, and members of Loan Teams. There are now nine Loan Teams, including
the Manila Loan Team responsible for areas not covered by the eight Loan Teams
stationed in Cauayan for Isabela and the Cagayan Valley; San Fernando (La
Union) for Pangasinan, Tarlac and Ilocos; Cabanatuan City for Nueva Ecija;
Naga City for Bicol; Bacolod City for Negros; Iloilo City for Panay; Cebu City
for eastern Visayas and northern Mindanao; and Davao for southern Mindanao.
Loan Teams presently process and sanction loan applications filed to partici-
pating banking institutions, Each team is headed by a Loan Officer who is a
certified public accountant with considerable experience in banking; other
members include one or two Loan Processors who are also certified public
accountants, and one or more Loan Evaluators who are usually agriculturalists
or agricultural engineers. Under this project, CB is planning to provide addi-
tional staff to Loan Teams to improve project implementation and supervision.
10.       At present, about 110  Agricultural Credit Supervisors are located
in the field besides those at headquarters; most are agriculturalists although
some are trained in agro-industries, fisheries, livestock and engineering.
Their qualifications and capability are considered satisfactory and DRBSLA
recruited 80 Supervisors in 1975 for replacement and expansion of this com-
plement. Nevertheless, the adequacy of technical field staff to cope with the
expected increase of participating banks and loan applications will depend on
the effective use of Government technical services and the gradual transfer of
lending authority to participating banks. In particular, increased employment
of technicians by participating banks to take over field work presently
carried out by CB staff would be essential to maintain the quality of lending
under the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Loan Processing Procedures
11.       Under the Rules and Regulations enforced by CB, applicants would
file loan applications on a prescribed form with a qualified rural bank or
SSLA , preferably the one nearest the project to be financed. The bank
conducts the initial investigations (i.e. verification of the project to
be financed, and inspection and assessment of the collateral offered)
and, when satisfied with the findings, requests CB Agricultural Credit
Supervisors to prepare farm and home plans and feasiblility studies.
The application is then submitted to the Loan Team assigned to the area,
together with the bank report on collateral and a complete set of support-
ing documents (including statements of financial condition and income and
expenditure of the bank). The Loan Team first checks the current eligibilty
of the bank to participate in project financing by examining for example its
arrears position. The application and supporting documents are scrutinized
and a member of the Team may visit the proposed project site. The Loan
Officer will finally sanction or reject the application without reference
to headquarters. On his notification, the Loan Teams located at the three
regional office and headquarters will release funds for the sub-loan to the
bank according to the approved disbursement schedule, which under previous
projects had been released by the Accounting and Special Services Division
in headquarters.
12.       Under the Third Project, rural banks and SSLAs were authorized to
process and approve loan applications of less than P 10,000. The preparation
of farm plans and feasibility studies by their own technicians has become a
feature of many participating institutions, but loan approvals have been very
few. Several reasons were given for this: the present maximum ceiling of
P 10,000 excluded most items to be financed; Loan Teams were not enthusiastic
in promoting this approach because of the immediate need for intensive checking
of individual banks with their limited staff; and while banks were willing to
process applications there seemed to be reluctance to hire or train techni-
cians to the level of competence upon which investment decisions could be
risked with review by CB staff.
13.       CB is now aware that to serve the increasing number of partici-
pating banks and loan applications, it would require an unacceptable staff
expansion to continue under the present system. Therefore, it has been
agreed to promote the transfer of lending authority to participating banks
as rapidly as they become qualified. Additional training for CB and bank
staff to this end would be financed in part under the project. The first
step would be to require all the participating banks to prepare the farm and
home plans and feasibility studies using their own technicians. Then lend-
ing authority would be gradually transferred according to the capability of
individual participating banks. Those banks without a technician would be
required to agree to hire one on their own. Loan Teams would be expected
to provide intensive assistance for this development and to gradually reduce
their direct involvement in loan processing. They would also be expected
to prepare annual plans for this transfer to banks in their respective areas,
including required strengthening of individual banks, measures to be taken
by Loan Teams, and target levels of authority for transfer to banks probably
by type and complexity of sub-loans.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
14.       Loan Teams would be strengthened and their expertise adjusted
toward program management to enable them to perform these functions. As
the banks become capable, field supervision by CB staff would be less fre-
quent and at the final stage only random post-investment audit would be
required.
15.       Management Advisory Unit. (MAU)  In addition to provision of
adequate incentives to encourage voluntary participation in the program,
there is a need to provide assistance to rural banks in areas of management
in which widespread or critical weaknesses have been encountered. Despite
the fact that CB staff as representatives of the regulatory and major financ-
ing agency of rural banks would probably encounter difficulty in gaining the
confidence and candor of rural bank managers, there are several problem areas
in which such a Unit could provide effective assistance, for example: budget-
ing, solicitation of deposits, cash management and cash flow projections, staff
utilization, sub-loan supervision, and collection procedures. MAU, to be
responsible to the Director, DRBSLA, would be headed by an Assistant Director.
A Technical Assistant and three officers of the rank of Division Chief (two
CPA's one Agriculturalist) and four to eight additional officers plus two
clerical support positions would comprise the Unit. It would be essential to
the effectiveness of the Unit's work that officers of these senior ranks be
selected on the basis of extensive experience in the managerial problems of
rural banks. Professional credibility alone will gain the confidence of
bankers in this service.
16.       Technical Support and Evaluation Unit. (TSEU)  TSEU's role with
respect to the CB:IBRD program would continue to be essentially one of mon-
itoring, evaluation and technical support for field operations. The Unit
has developed a high standard of work. Under the Fourth Project the Unit
would, in addition to its ongoing supervision, oversee requirements with
respect to the share of loans extended to small farmers, and the regional
distribution of sub-loans. To date the work of TSEU has been limited to
term lending under CB:IBRD projects. In keeping with the objective of inte-
grating all credit operations in the Department, and to meet a growing
need for staff support, the Unit would, coincident with the beginning the
Fourth Project, undertake responsibility for staff support pertaining to
the Department's short-term production credit activities as well. This
would include the following functions:
(a) to serve as a permanent secretariat for the Department's
representative to the Technical Board on Agricultural
Credit, the National Food and Agriculture Council and
the National Commission on Countryside Credit and Col-
lection. This function will be particularly important
in the preparation of background papers in support of
CB positions to be taken in these bodies. Such work
is now done on an ad hoc basis by operating Divisions.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(b) to develop operating policies and procedures for
special financing schemes for which the Department
is charged with implementation responsibility.
(c)  to evaluate on-going and pilot schemes such as the
Integrated Agricultural Financing scheme which is
now under trial through 18 rural banks.
Service Vehicles
17.       Under the Second Rural Credit Project, 61 vehicles were financed
for the CB field staff and still operating to make visits to sub-borrowers
and participating rural banks. As CB technicians stationed in the field have
been increased by 80 in 1976, additional vehicles has become necessary to
continue effectively the field operation, in particular supervision and on-
the-spot check required with the transfer of lending authority. It was agreed
that about 60 vehicles would be financed under this project.
Training
18.       DRBSLA provides and organizes several training courses mainly for
the staff and management of rural banks and SSLAs such as a special three-
week course for officers and employees of new rural banks (usually followed
up by a short on-the-job training program), a six-week basic banking course
for rural bank staff, a supervised credit course for rural bank technicans
and a one-week management seminar for directors and managers. These courses
have contributed significantly to the success of rural bank and SSLA opera-
tions, but additional training programs are needed in certain subject areas
such as term lending.
19.       Under the project additional training would focus on improving the
term lending capability of CB and rural bank credit staff. The program
would include preparation of a credit handbook (covering the necessary steps
for lending, from project identification to preparation, processing, approval,
fund disbursement, supervision and repayment). In addition to its use as a
textbook for training, this handbook would serve as a manual for field staff
of CB and rural banks. After completion of the handbook, a series of train-
ing courses would be organized by regions or provinces to introduce to or
review with rural bank and SSLA credit staff the methods and procedures
recommended.
20.       Lending Terms.  For this project, the Bank would contribute 40% of
total project costs, the Government and CB 40%, rural banks 10% and ultimate
beneficiaries 10%. Bank funds would be onlent to CB at 8.5%, 1/ and, Govern-
ment counterpart funds at no interest; therefore an average cost of 4.25% to
CB. Rural banks and SSLAs would be charged a rate of 9.0%, with the exception
of 7% for sub-loans financing agrarian reform beneficiaries, for funds onlent by
1/   For illustration, the interest rate for the third quarter of 1977FY
is used.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
CB's interest margin would be 4.55%. Including the returns from the First,
Second and Third Projects, this margin should be sufficient to cover admin-
istrative expenses.
21.       Maturities of sub-loans to rural banks approximately coincide with
those to the ultimate beneficiary so that rural banks would be required to
repay CB immediately after collection. CB may relend principal repayments
received from rural banks not required to amortize Bank loans under the
First, Second, Third or proposed Projects.
22.       CB would establish Rules and Regulations governing the Fourth Rural
Credit Project in agreement with the Bank. Such Rules and Regulations estab-
lish criteria for participation by rural banks and SSLAs (Annexes 6 and 7,
respectively) and regulate the administration of the project. Any change
of the Rules and Regulations would be subject to approval by the Bank.
23.       Examination and Auditing.  Under the provisions of the Rural Banks
Act, and the Savings and Loan Associations Act, the Monetary Board has the
power to supervise the businesses and corporate operations of rural banks and
SSLAs. More than 170 staff of DRBSLA are engaged in examination and auditing
of rural banks and SSLAs. A regular audit is supposed to be carried out at
least once a year. However, this goal was not achieved in 1975. Out of 760
rural banks, 315 were audited and 30 SSLAs were audited out of a total of 44.
The new concept of resident examiners aims to implement the required audit
frequency. Special examinations are conducted whenever CB deems it necessary
to check cash or other transactions, to follow up corrective measures recom-
mended during the previous audit or to investigate irregularities in the
operations of the institutions. In 1975, DRBSLA made 855 special examina-
tions: 852 for rural banks and 3 for SSLAs. By the end of 1975, 37 rural
banks were found to be in need of rehabiliation or liquidation; 15 were
under close supervision, 6 under CB management, and 16 under receivership,
or liquidation. The records of participating rural banks and SSLAs would
be retained on file at GB.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Comparative Statement of Condition of the
Central Bank of the Philippines
November 30, i973 to December 31, 1975
(Pesos Million)
11/30/1973    12/31/1974    12/31/1975
ASSETS
International Reserv s                           6,117        10,629.5       10,204.9
Domestic Securitiea7                             3,534         4,144.7        4,426.5
Loans and Advances-                              1,684         3,428.6        5,516.2
Special a/c - Foreign Exchange Differentials                   1,361.2        1,414.5
Account to Secure Coinage                           34            34.5           34.5
Govtt. Note - Treasury Cert. Account                              24.3           27.3
Bank Premises, Furniture, Equipment                191           321.9          665.1
Monetary Adj. Account - Gov't. Note                               88.1          330.9
Other Assets                                     2,240         1,237.9        3,354.3
Total Assets                          132801       21,273.6       25,974.2
LIABILITIES
Currency Issue                                   3,645         4,975.5        5,644.6
Demand Deposits                                  3,384
Banking Institutions                                           2,629.7        3,647.7
International Monetary Fund                      1,245         1,074.9        2,135.4
National Gov't.                                                3,367.7        1,250.1
IBRD and IDA                                       118            -              -
Other Deposits                                     -              66.2           74.0
Asian Development Bank - Account F                   0            -              -
Allocation of Special Drawing Rights               -             439.5          453.1
Notes and Loans Payable                          1,656         2,930.5        4,509.1
Revaluation of Int. Reserves                       308           311.9          193.0
CB. Cert. of Indebtedness                        2,340         4,006.5        6,006.8
CB. Cert. of Indebtedness (F. Currency)            -             595.6        1,103.8
Other Liabilities                                  592           549.4          615.2
Total Liabilities                     13,288       20,947.4       25,632.8
NET WORTH
Capital                                             10            10.0           10.0
Surplus                                            279           283.2          290.1
Reserve for Currency Insurance                       4             5.2           -
Reserve for Refund of Margin Fee                     0             0.3           -
Undivided Profits                                  219            27.5           41.3
Total Net Worth                          513           326.2         341.4
Total Liabilities and Net Worth              13,801        21,273.6       25,974.2
- Excluding Treasury note and bonds against RP-Japan commodity loan
b/ but including Gov't. note on TCA (1975 and 4/31/76).
- Including advances under the repurchase agreements starting June 1974.
Source: Central Bank of the Philippines, Annual Report 1975



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Central Bank
Partial Structure of Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations
(Supervised Credit Groups)
|   Director
Associate
Director
Management                    Technical Suppor
Advisory Unit-                 |& Evaluation Unit
~~~~AdIsrUi -                         _&
|    Assistant    l                    l   Assistant                                     Assistant
Director                                   Director                                      Director
Agricultur         Loan             Agricultur      Accounting         Loan             Agriculture         Loan
D.visions         Teams             Divisions       Division          Teams             Divisions          Teams
I        Cagayan                   IV                           Manila                VI            Iloilo
II        Cabanatuan                 V                           Naga                 VII            Bacolod
III         San Fernando (La Union)                                                   VIII            Cebu
Davao
rtaF
-To be established under the Fourth Project.                                                                                n



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rural Banks
A. Background, Organization and Functions of the Rural Bank System History
1.        The Rural Bank Program is the culmination of almost half a century
of Government sponsored efforts to establish a banking system that would
provide credit facilities to small farmers and small commercial and industrial
entrepreneurs in rural areas. Since 1907, some 15 legislative measures have
been adopted by the Government, among which were those authorizing the estab-
lishment of Agricultural Credit Banks (1908), a system of agricultural credit
cooperative associations (1915), the Philippine National Bank (1916), and rural
banks and commodity corporations which engaged mostly in marketing loans.
On June 6, 1952, the Congress of the Republic of the Philippines passed the
Rural Banks Act 1/, the foundation for the present rural banking system,
which has become an effective instrument for the provision of banking facil-
ities to a large number of producers in rural areas.
Objectives and Legal Basis
2.        The Rural Banks Act states the Government's policy to "promote
and expand the rural economy on an orderly and effective manner by providing
the people in the rural communities with the means of facilitating and im-
proving their productive activities and to encourage cooperatives. Towards
this end, the Government encourages and assists in the establishment of a
system of rural banks which will place within the easy reach and access of
the people credit facilities on reasonable terms". In addition, Presiden-
tial Decree No. 27 of November 19, 1972 on agrarian reform requires rural
banks "to provide immediate source of funds to augment loans/credits to be
made available to the tenants and/or farmers cooperatives..."
3.        The Rural Banks Act requires the Monetary Board of the Central Bank
of the Philippines (CB) to formulate Rules and Regulations governing the
establishment and operations of rural banks. Pursuant to this power, the
Monetary Board has promulgated several sets of Rules and Regulations which are
intended to implement the Rural Banks Act and which, together with the Monetary
Board's letters of instruction and CB circulars, form the bank's main opera-
tional basis. The provisions of the General Banking Law and the Central Bank
Law are also part of the laws governing rural banks in so far as they are
applicable and not in conflict with any provision of the Rural Banks Act.
1/   Republic Act No. 720 of June 6, 1952, as amended.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
As rural banks are organized in the form of stock corporations, the provi-
sions of the Law on Private Corporations are supplementary to the above laws.
The Role of the Central Bank
4.        CB acts as a refinance institution of rural banks (paras 15-16)
and through DRBSLA provides them with technical assistance, training of
management and staff, and supervises and examines rural bank operations (Annex
5, paras 6-19 and 23).
Privileges and Exemptions
5.        Privileges.  Rural banks enjoy the advantage of free training of
officers and employees (Annex 5, paras 18-19) and free technical assistance
to accounts staff and inspectors when opening a bank. Since the intro-
duction of supervised credit, agricultural and fisheries technicians,
directly or indirectly paid for by CB, assist rural banks in processing
loan applications and supervise the use of funds by borrowers. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the Department of Natural Resources, the Department of
Trade and Tourism and other appropriate Government agencies are enjoined to
cooperate with rural banks and provide advice to their borrowers. Up to
January 1973, rural banks did not share in the cost of supervision by DRBSLA,
but since then they have been required to pay, as any other bank, an annual
fee not exceeding 1/20% for their assets (excluding cash reserves). Financial
privileges comprise the provision of supplemental capital in the form of pre-
ferred stock (para 12), liberal rediscounting facilities (para 15) and the
participation in special financing programs (para 16).
6.        Exemptions.  Rural banks and their borrowers or mortgagors are
exempted from any fees, charges and documentary stamp taxes relative to
loans or transactions of less than P 5,000. In addition, the Rural Banks
Act grants rural banks absolute exemption from any taxes, charges and fees
if the bank's net assets do not exceed P 1 million (excluding paid-in Gov-
ernment counterpart capital). If the net assets are between P 1 and 3 mil-
lion, the taxes, charges and fees are levied in proportion to the excess



ANNEX 6
Page 3
over P 1 million. Rural banks with net assets of more than P 3 milion pay
taxes and fees like any other bank. 1/
Number and Distribution of Rural Banks
7.        As of December 31, 1975, there were 768 licensed rural banks.
Seven hundred and thirty-two of these were active and under regular exam-
ination. These figures compare to 622 and 606 respectively at the time of
appraisal cf Third Project, October 31, 1973. The Four-Year Development Pro-
gram for the rural banking system (1974-77) provides for the establishment of
an additional 100 rural banks annually. One hundred and forty-six were
established during the first two years of the program. Out of the 704 rural
banks operating over one year, 245 (35%) were participating in the CB:IBRD
program as of December 31, 1975. The breakdown by region was as follows:
Total No.      No. of Participating Rural Banks
Rural Banks
Luzon               458                  159         (35%)
Visayas             148                  55          (37%)
Mindanao             98                  31          (32%)
Total        704                 245          (35%)
The Rural Bankers Association of the Philippines
8.        In 1955, 18 banks formed an unincorporated association which in
1975 was incorporated as the Rural Bankers Association of the Philippines
(RBAP) and almost all rural banks now belong to the Association. There is
a Rural Bankers Federation in most provinces, representing the link between
individual banks and the Association. RBAP actively represents its members'
1/   (a)  Under the Internal Revenue Code, the income tax rate for
domestic corporations is 25% of the taxable net income up
to P 100,000 and 35% of that over and above P 100,000.
(b) The Privilege Tax on Business and Occupation for banks is
a fixed amount of P 500 a year.
(c) The Tax on Banks is 5% of gross receipts derived from
interest, discounts, dividends, commissions and other
gross income realized during the calendar year.
(d) The annual Residence Tax amounts to P 5.00 plus a tax not
exceeding P 2,000 on the basis of (a) P 2.00 for every
P 5,000 worth of real property and P 2.00 for every P 5,000
gross receipts or earnings derived by the corporation dur-
ing the preceding year.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
point of view in all dealings with CB and the Government and participates in
the formulation of laws and policies affecting rural banks. It liases with
organizations such as the Agricultural Machinery Dealers Association (AMDA)
and plays an important role in public relations on behalf of its members. It
organizes seminars and training courses for the staff and management of mem-
ber banks, drawing resource people from Government agencies such as CB, from
universities, and from the private sector.
B. Organization and Operations of Rural Banks
9.        Persons of Filipino citizenship and/or cooperatives or barrio asso-
ciations 1/ can establish a rural bank, provided that a majority of stock-
holders are actual residents of the community where the bank is to be located
and own the controlling stock therein. The initial authorized capital must be
at least P 100,000. No individual family group can own more than 20% of the
voting shares, no interlocking directorate with other rural banks is allowed,
and the directors and key officers should not be relatives within the third
degree of consanguinity or affinity.
10.       Rural banks are stock corporations, managed by a board of 5-11
directors who must be Filipino citizens and shareholders of voting common
stock. The executive officers are the president, vice-president, man-
ager, treasurer or cashier, and secretary. To ensure managerial qualifica-
tions, the Monetary Board requires directors to be at least 25 years old,
college graduates or having at least 5 years of business experience or an
acceptable banking training. The president is the chief executive and pre-
sides over all stockholders' or directors' meetings, unless the bank has
elected a chairman of its board; if the bank is small, the president may also
be concurrently the manager.
Financial Resources
11.       The resources of rural banks consist of their own capital (preferred
and common stock and reserves), deposits from the public, and borrowings from
CB through rediscounting of notes and participation in special financing pro-
grams.
12.       Preferred Stock.  The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) holds
preferred stock in rural banks, because CB cannot directly invest in stock cor-
porations. 2/ Its purpose is to match the private investment with Government
1/   A barrio (village) association or Samahang Nayon is a form of a pre-
cooperative; membership is mandatory for participation in the
Agrarian Reform Program.
2/   DBP is still appointed as the Government's agent for this purpose but
preferred stock issued prior to 1972 has been transferred to the Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP).



ANNEX 6
Page 5
counterpart capital assistance up to a 50:50 ratio at the time of establish-
ment. DBP, subject to availabillty of funds, furnishes this supplementary
capital not exceeding P 1 million per bank, and the rural bank issues the
preferred stock. The capital assistance is to be utilized solely for lend-
ing under supervised credit programs. The banks, within three years from
the start of operations, must set up a sinking fund for the retirement of the
preferred shares. DBP or LBP is entitled to dividends of not more than 2%
each time the bank declares dividends on common stocks. If, in the Monetary
Board's opinion, a rural bank has accumulated enough capital strength, or the
private sector offers to replace the Government investment, the Monetary Board
may require the retirement of preferred shares.
13.       Common Stock.  As required by the Corporation Law, incorporators
must subscribe to at least 20% of the authorized capital stock (minimum
P 100,000). Only common stockholders exercise management, proprietary and
remedial rights. A recent development initiated by the Govenment is that
barrio associations and cooperatives may buy shares in existing rural banks.
The aim is to broaden the capital basis of the banks and to change their gen-
erally conservative attitude towards lending to small farmers. The extent
to which cooperative organiztions may buy shares in any existing bank may
not exceed 40%. Five percent of the value of Masagana 99 loans through rural
banks is placed in the rural bank as a special deposit in the name of the
borrower's Samahang Nayon (cooperative). One of the purposes of this fund
is the acquisition of Government-owned shares in the rural bank. 1/
14.       Deposits.  Rural banks are entitled to accept savings and time de-
posits (with the exception of about 50 authorized by 1972, rural banks can no
longer accept demand deposits in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 77),
after having received specific authority from CB to do so. Banks with a
paid-in capital of not less than P 100,000 and adequate facilities and staff
normally qualify. The maximum rate of interest is 7-1/2% p.a. for savings
deposits and up to 12-1/2% p.a. for time deposits of two years. Demand
deposits do not earn any interest. There are three measures to protect
rural bank depositors: (a) deposit accounts not exceeding P 10,000 per
depositor must be insured with the Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(b) the bank must maintain reserve against deposit liabiliites (14% of demand
deposits, 12% of savings deposits and 10% of time deposits); and (c) it must
maintain a minimum capital of 10% of its assets (excluding cash reserves,
contingent assets and supervised (guaranteed) credit). Although interest
rates do not seem very attractive in a country with very high interest rates
for non-institutional credit, rural banks suceeded in obtaining a total of
1/   To date, no such acquisition has taken place.  Rural bankers are reluctant
to release deposits while Masagana 99 arrears are high and they do not
want cooperative ownership in their banks (another decree gives coopera-
tives third priority after existing shareholders and displaced land owners
for stock purchases). For their part, cooperatives prefer to establish
their own rural banks. One cooperative rural bank was established at
Cabanatuan in December 1974, and began operations in early 1975.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
P 678.3 million in deposits (83% of which was savings deposits) as of
December 31, 1975 compared to P 577.5 million as of December 31, 1974, and
increase of 17%.
15.       Rediscounting.  CB rediscounts eligible papers (promissory notes)
up to 80% of the outstanding balance of the unpaid portion of such papers
at the time of rediscounting. The rediscount rate charged for non-
supervised loans is 5% p.a. For supervised production loans for rice, corn
and sugar, the maximum amount granted may be 100% and the rediscount rate
charged is 1% p.a. In addition, banks are required to set aside the equiv-
alent of 2% p.a. of rediscounted loans to meet the cost of supervision. The
use of new supervsion funds has not been policed satisfactorily in the past
but a proposal is now under consideration to require the separate accounting
of such moneys. A rual bank may not rediscount with CB more than 500% of its
net worth plus 100% of its monthly average savings deposit liabilities for
the four months preceding the date of rediscounting in the case of supervised
credit (100% and 50% respectively in the case of non-supervised credit).
Officially, rural banks with past due loans exceeding 25% of their total out-
standing loans (exclusive of loans granted to beneficiaries of the Agrarian
Reform Program and under the Agricultural Guarantee and Loan Fund and CB:IBRD
programs) are disqualified from rediscounting. However, this restriction has
not been enforced with respect to rediscounting food production loans for
several years. A circular was issued in June 1976, announcing CB's intention
to enforce it again as of November 1, 1976.
16.       Special Financing Programs.  CB channels funds for short-term
(up to 1 year), medium-term (1-5 years) and long-term (over 5 years) loans
through qualified rural banks under special financing programs. The funds
are lent to the banks as Special Time Deposits secured by promissory notes.
The first of such programs was the First Rural Credit Project (Loan 432-PH),
followed by the Second (Loan 607-PH) and the Third (Loan 1010-PH). Other
special programs - mostly with USAID participation - include the Agricultural
Guarantee and Loan Fund (AGLF) for medium- and long-term loans for farmers
and cooperatives, which also protects participating banks against losses (up
to 70%); the Small Fisherman's Special Credit Fund for the acquisition of
fishing boats, engines, accessories, nets and other fishing gear by small
marine fishermen; the Special Agricultural Loan Fund for granting produc-
tion loans for a maximum period of three years to farmers who form a "compact
farm" 1/ of at least five farmers who assume joint and several liability for
the loan; the Agricultural Loan Fund for agrarian reform beneficiaries
1/   Unregistered group of farmers with contiguous farms of approximately
equal productive capability, fully irrigated, for purposes of consol-
idating individual resources, methods and activities by cultivating
the aggregate consolidated area as one unit under a single management.
This concept has not been adopted on any significant scale since its
introduction.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
organized in cooperatives or "seldas" 1/; Guarantee Fund for loans and
guarantees to rural banks/farmers in areas affected by the devastating
floods and drought of June and July 1972; the Agricultural Loan (Calamity)
Fund - Hand Tractor and Work Animal Loan Program for loans to farmers
for the purchase of hand tractors and work animals; the "Masagana 99" Rice
Production Program, for the production of high yielding rice varieties
in 43 major rice producing provinces covering more than 500,000 ha of irri-
gated and 100,000 ha of rainfed lands during the crop year 1973/74; and
the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund for the establishment, expansion
or refinancing of small-scale export-oriented or cottage industries, Each
of these programs has a set of rules and regulations governing its
administration.
17.       Status of Financial Resources.  The rural banking system continues
to show growth (a statement of comparative balance sheets, 1970-1975, is
attached as Table 1 and income statements for the same period appear as
Table 2). The status as of December 31, 1975 is summarized as follows:.
Amount
Capital                     P M        (US$ M)       % of Total
Preferred Stock         56.7                           2%
Common Stock           219.4                           8%
Surpluses, Reserves,
Undivided Profits   149.9                            6%
426.0  (58.4)        16%
Liabilities
Demand, Savings and
Time Deposits        678.3                      25%
Central Bank and
Other Banks        1,645.0  2,323.3  (318.3)  59%  84%
Total             2,749.3  (376.7)        100%
The increase of total resources over December 31, 1974 amounted to P 638.6
million (US$85.1 million) or 30% during the 12 month period. Rural banks'
own resources increased by about 18% annually over the five years ending
December 31, 1975 while total liabilities increased at a simple rate of
88% annually during the same period. The rapid increase in liabilities
was primarily due to the introduction of the "Masagana 99" Rice Production
1/   Synonymous with compact farm, except that members cultivate their farms
separately and individually. Serious repayment problems have arisen
with this concept with the willful default of one or more of the coop-
erators.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Program and the resultant rise in CB notes payable from P 123.7 million at
December 31, 1970 to P 1,009.9 million at December 31, 1975.
Lending Operations
18.       Limitations.  According to the Rural Banks Act, loans and advances
by rural banks must be primarily for the purpose of meeting the credit needs
of small farmers or farm families (defined as those owning or cultivating, in
the aggregate, not more than 50 ha of land dedicated to agricultural pro-
duction). They may also attend to the normal credit needs of cooperatives
and small merchants and small business enterprises whose capital invested
does not exceed P 50,000 (under review to be increased to P 100,000) and the
needs of "essential rural industries" irrespective of capital investment.
(Essential rural industries are those the goods and services of which are
needed by and normally purchased by low income groups). Medium- and long-term
loans may be extended by banks with an unimpaired capital of not less than
P 100,000 and savings and time deposits of at least P 100,000, Investment
in equities of other enterprises are only allowed for minority holdings in
allied undertakings up to 25% of the banks net worth. Otherwise, rural banks
provide normal banking facilities as required by rural communities. For the
purpose of determining the need for prior authority from CB, rural bank lend-
ing is classified into ordinary and special. Newly organized rural banks are
authorized to make ordinary short-term loans without the need of further CB
authority, whereas for special medium- and long-term loans, such permission
is required. Apart from the normal requirements for ordinary lending, rural
banks have to fulfill additional conditions before they qualify to participate
in the various special financing programs (paras 16 and 24).
19.       Volume.  Total lending operations by the rural banking system
have increased substantially over the last five years. The following table
highlights the expansion from 1970 to 1975. (Sector-wise details for 1975
appear as Table 3):



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Number of Loans                        Loan Amount
('000)                            (Pesos Million)
Increase
(Decrease)                             Increase
Against    Increase                   Against    Increase
During   Previous   (Decrease)        During   Previous   (Decrease)
Year    Year       Year          %            Year       Year      ____%
1970    437.5      15.6         3.7           558.8       86.6        18.3
1971    371.7      34.2         7.8           678.7      119.9        21.5
1972    527.9      56.2        11.9           785.2      106.5        15.7
1973    749.3    221.4         41.9         1,073.7      288.5        36.7
1974  1,045.6    296.3         39.5         1,824.7      751.0        69.9
The table illustrates the accelerated increase in the number of loans made
as well as in the amount lent. Average loan size increased during the
period from about P 1,275 to about P 2,220 between 1970 and 1975. The
dramatic increase in lending beginning in 1973 is primarily a result of the
introduction of Masagana 99, the supervised credit program for rice pro-
duction.
20.       Distribution.  Lending in 1974 and 1975 to different sectors of
the economy is summarized in the following table:
1974                         1975
No.   % of    Amount   % of    No.   % of   Amount   % of
'000    Total    P  M    Total  '000   Total   P  M    Total
Agricultural
Loans        972.4      93.0   1,669.5   91.4   966.2  92.9  2,117.5   91.7
Commercial
Loans         53.2       5.1      108.9    6.0    53.3   5.1    131.0    5.7
Industrial
Loans          8.4        .8       32.6    1.8      9.4    .9      44.9    1.9
Other Loans    11.6        1.1       13.7      .8    10.8   1.1       16.8     .7
Total    1,045.6    100.0   1,824.7  100.0 1,039.7 100.0  2,310.2  100.0
21.       Loan Sizes.  A total of about 749,300 loans were granted by all
rural banks in 1973 (the last year for which size data are available) for an
aggregate amount of about P 1,074 million.  A classification of loans according
to size is provided in the following table (data for 1970 through 1973 are
shown in Table 4).



ANNEX 6
Page 10
No.     % of    Amount    % of
1973                           ('000)    Total   (E M)      Total
Total Loans Granted                      794.4    100.0   1,073.7   100.0
Cumulative up to P 2,000 (US$ 295)       629.3      84.0      524.7    48.9
Cumulative up to P 5,000 (US$737)        726.3      96.9      843.0    78.5
P 5,000 to P 10,000 (US$737 to 1,475)   16.7         2.2      109.9    10.2
P 10,000 and above (US$1,475 and above)  6.3          .9      120.8    11.3
About 96.9% of all loans, accounting for 78.5% of the total amount advanced
during the year, were made in small loan amounts of up to P 5,000. This
illustrates that rural banks in fact reach a large number of small operators
and fulfill their role of serving the less affluent sections in rural com-
munities, apart from assisting larger and progressive farmers with a higher
absorptive capacity. The pattern of loan distribution by size has been
fairly constant in recent years.
22.       Securities.  The following table shows, in a summarized form, loans
granted in 1973 by type of security (details for 1970-1973 appear in Table 4):
Type of Security      No. of Loans  % of Total  Amount P M  % of Total
Real Estate Mortgage         384,300         51      680.9          63
Chattel Mortgage,
Guarantees, Sureties,
Bank Deposits, Pledges
of Crops                  306,400         41       332.5          31
Unsecured                     58,600          8       60.3           6
Total                   749,300        100    1,073.7          100
This demonstrates the generally conservative attitude of rural bankers con-
cerning collateral but also indicates their flexibility in granting loans on
securities other than land and even in advancing unsecured loans.
23.       Loan Periods.  In 1974, the last year for which data are available,
rural banks made an estimated 970,000 loans amounting to P 1,577 million for
short-term agricultural purposes. This amounted to 93% and 86% of loan
numbers and loan amount, respectively, in their portfolios. There were about
4,200 agricultural loans for medium- and long-term purposes amounting to about
P 85 million, almost all of which were funded through the CB:IBRD program.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
Medium- and long-term agricultural loans amounted to 0.5% and 5% of total
loans and amounts, respectively, in rural bank portfolio.
24.       Qualifications for Participation in CB:IBRD Lending.  According to
the Rules and Regulations governing loans under the CB:IBRD project, DRBSLA
evaluates the creditworthiness of rural banks that wish to participate in
the project, taking into account the following: the bank must have been in
operation for at least one year; it must have sufficient liquidity to meet
obligations to creditors and depositors; have sound loan investments as to
collateral, capacity to pay and character of borrowers; arrears may not
exceed specified limits 1/; has established a credit reputation with CB;
has a management of competence and integrity; and has sufficient unimpared
capital and adequate reserves as well as positive operating results. Qua-
lified banks enter into a credit line agreement with CB. Each rural bank
assumes the credit risk of sub-loans extended by it. The bank executes a
promissory note covering each loan received from CB and, as security for such
sub-loans, endorses in favor of CB promissory notes executed by individual
borrowers covering the total amount borrowed from the bank.
25.       Interest Rates.  Recently the Monetary Board has raised the ceil-
ing interest rates, which are not applicable to rural banks, to 17% for loans
less than two years and 19% for loans over two years 2/. But the annual
interest rate for credit made available under Masagana 99 and other Government
food grain production credit programs is 12%. The effective cost of credit
from agricultural input suppliers is between 15% and 25% per annum and it is
much higher from private moneylenders.
C. Operational Results
Repayments
26.       Collections from Sub-Borrowers.  Agricultural credit has a poor
recovery record in the Philippines. Not only do collections from farmers
leave much to be desired, but, consequently, also repayments by rural banks
to CB (para 29). Collections for all rural banks' operations show a con-
tinous decline as illustrated in the following table. As of December 31,
1975, arrears amounted to 21.5% of portfolio (Table 5). This figure would
be higher were it not for rapid portfolio expansion and widespread avail-
ment of restructuring privileges for production loans (para 27).
1/   The arrears limits proposed for this project are:
(i) arrears not exceeding 25% of total portfolio, and
(ii) arrears on terms loans not exceeding 30% of demand; reducing
to 25% from January 1, 1978 and 20% from July 1, 1978 (para 6.09).
2/   These interest rates include a 3% charge or fee.  The higher rate for
loans over two years can only be charged when such loans are matched by
time deposits in excess of two years.



ANNEX 6
Page 12
Year         Total Demand          Total Recoveries        Recoveries/Overdues
(P----------(p M)                  (Z) _______
1970             582.0                   479.3                82.4  /   17.6
1971             695.0                   567.3                81.6  /   18.4
1972             808.0                   648.7                80.3  /   19.7
1973             978.8                   786.0                80.3  /   19.7
1974           1,464.0                 1,176.5                80.4  /   19.6
1975           2,184.6                 1,681.0                76.9  /   23.1
Performance under different programs varies considerably.  Surprisingly,
repayment under non-supervised credit operations was much better than under
supervised credit schemes with collection rates of 82% and 62%, respectively.
These figures relate to short-term credit only. Medium- and long-term cre-
dit amount to only 15% of rural bank portfolios, and present reporting
methods do not permit direct comparison. Repayments under the CB:IBRD
projects are discussed in Annex 4, para 8.
27.       Restructuring.  Under existing rules, rural banks may reschedule
loans in deserving cases where borrowers have not made any amortization pay-
ment for two consecutive periods and where the reason for non-payment is
beyond the borrower's control as verified by the bank and confirmed by CB.
Eligible causes for non-payment may be losses due to natural hazards in areas
which the Government has declared as "calamity areas". Restructuring of
CB:IBRD loans would normally be within the original period of the loan,
although extensions may be granted up to one half of the original loan period,
provided the defaulter repaid all penalties and interest due. In the case
of short-term loans, defaulters have to pay at least 30% of principal
before the unpaid balance may be extended by one half of the original
period of the loan. Rescheduling on this formula may be repeated once.
The penalty is 5% p.a. on the past due account over and above the original
interest rate. Very few rural banks have made use of the possibility to
reschedule overdue accounts. This may be due to the fairly cumbersome pro-
cedure, but more likely because it is more profitable to have overdue accounts
on which an extra 5% p.a. can be charged. 1/ The psychological pressure of
delinquency is also a factor. On several occasions during interviews with
the mission bankers cited this reason for not rescheduling. The policies
regarding penalties for late payments need to be reviewed and it should be
ensured that farmers are fully aware of the additional charges. Borrowers
who are able to pay should feel sufficient pressure to fulfill their commit-
ments on time or even have incentives to repay in advance.
28.       Arrears Criteria for Project Participation.  In keeping with the
underlying objective of linking CB:IBRD lending more closely to other credit
activities of financing institutions, the arrears criteria for participation
1/   Banks will often meet maturing obligations to CB from their own
resources to avoid penalty charges. The sub-loan then earns an
effective 17% plus fees.



ANNEX 6
Page 13
under the proposed project would include consideration of performance on
entire protfolio rather than exclusively the term credit portion. On the
other hand, term lending is usually a very small component of total loan
portfolio and repayment on term loans could be very poor without materially
altering the ratios on total loan portfolio. It is therefore desirable
to have two criteria, as follows:
(i) total arrears not exceeding 25% of total loan port-
folio (the ceiling imposed by CB for access to redis-
counting faciliites);
(ii) arrears on term loans not exceeding 30% of demand
("arrears" being defined as amounts due at the end
of a twelve-month period as a percentage of demand,
and "demand" as principle and interest falling due
during that twelve month period plus overdues at the
beginning of the period.)
The 30% limitation on term credit arrears would be reduced to 25% of January 1,
1978 and 20% of July 1, 1978. At the time of full commitment of funds under
the Third Project a 25% limitation was in effect. As a result of the new
criteria, the first 25% limitation at the present time would exclude 257 1/
of the 768 rural banks. The second 30% limitation would only permit parti-
cipation initially by about 100 banks and sub-projects could be undertaken for
period of six to nine months while arrears are being reduced to acceptable
levels and more banks become eligible for participation.
29.    Rural Banks  Repayments to CB.  As of December 31, 1975, total arrears
with CB amounted to P 17.5 million compared to P 10.5 million on December 31,
1974. Arrears under CB:IBRD projects were P 3.8 million and P 3.4 million on
those dates, respectively. In the repayment of loans from CB, rural banks
give priority to obligations arising from rediscounting operations for short-
term production loans since default on such obligations effects their continued
access to rediscounting facilities. On the other hand, loans under Special
Financing Programs such as the CB:IBRD projects are excluded from the calcula-
tion of arrears ratios on which eligibility for rediscounting is, in part,
determined. Efforts by CB to reduce the overall arrears situation of rural
banks must begin with improvements in the financial reporting system to in-
crease the timeliness of information available to CB. It is also essential
that information be shared promptly and routinely between, DRBSLA and the
Department of Loans and Credits (DLC), the department responsible for redis-
counting operations.
1/   Out of these rural banks, 245 have agreed to restructure loans in
arrears eligible for restructuring; some of them may be able to reduce
arrearages to less than 25% and become eligible for rediscounting.



ANNEX 6
Page 14
Profits
30.    Income and expenditure increased substantially in volume over the
last five years (Table 2). Gross operating income totalled P 234.4 million
during 1975 against P 153.7 million in 1974, an increase of 53% which was
mainly due to increased lending. The gross operating expenses totalled
P 158.5 million and P 114.7 million, respectively, during the same period;
the increase of 38% was largely caused by higher salary and interest pay-
ments. Net income increased steadily from 1970 to 1973, then showed dramatic
increases of 61% and 95% in 1974 and 1975, respectively.
31.    Between 1974 and 1975, commmon stock increased by 47% and preferred
stock decreased by 44%, resulting in a net increase in paid-in capital of
10%. The average rate of return on shareholders investment increased from
10% to 18% before tax during the same period while net income as a percent
of common stock rose from 26% to 35%. Net income amounted to 48% of gross
income and 3.2% of average interest - earning assets in 1975 compared to
34% and 2.2%, respectively, in 1974.
32.    These income and profit figures reflect the high degree of leverage in
rural banks (5.5:1 nominal, but 6.5:1 when Government preferred shares are
deducted from equity). The high arrears and default levels in rural bank
portfolios would have begun by now under normal conditions to take a serious
toll of profits and bank stability. However 64% of all rural banks liabili-
ties are accounts with CB, and the latter's leniency in deferring payments
and encouraging debt restructuring has enabled banks to continue to show pro-
fits and expand portfolios. This policy is now under serious question in
the Philippines, since it has merely postponed and aggravated by virtue of
increased magnitude the problem of sub-borrower arrears. Serious efforts at
improved collections coupled with more stringent conditions for rural bank
to qualify for CB credit will be essential to avoid further damage to the
rural banking system.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
PHILIPPINES -
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT. PROJECT
RURAL BANKS
COMPARATIVE 9ALANCE SHEETS DECEMBER 31, 1970 - DECEMBER 31, 1975
(Pesos Million)
1970        1971         1972         1973        1974         1975
(Dec. 31)   (Dec. 31)   (Dec. 31)   (Dec. 31)  (Dec. 31)    (Dec. 31)
ASSETS
Cash in Hand and Banks                            72.6        76.0         113.6        191.2      21,3.9         216.i
Loans Outstanding (Net) 1/                      526.1        636.0         769.8      1,055.8   1,701.7         2,323.8
(of which IBRD)                               ( 17-.)    (  21.1)        ( 44.2)
Government Securities                            12.9         17.0          26.0         50.6       72.0           68.6
Bank Premises, Furniture, Fixtures,
Transport Equip., Office Supplies              B.14        20.3          23.9         25.7       35.0           ".6
Other Assets                                      2L.8        34.3          49.0         58.3       58.1           66.2
-_5_._O        763.6        9623       1,382.6  3  2,110.7       27.3
LIABILITIES
Demand Deposits                                    7.7          8.5          9.3         14.4       16.9           20.8
Saving Deposits                                 214.8        267.7         293.9        392.5      506.0          561.7
Time Deposits
Special Time Deposits:  AGLF                      2407 234.9                                                      312.7
IBRD)                    2.4          3.6          15.4       161.1
Special Savings Depositso 2.6 91.3
Loans Payable:  CS:  IBD17.1                                   20.5         37.5   I     55         8.             6.
Others                            0.1         1.6           2.4         5819       89.2          166.9
Notes Payable:  CB Rediscounts123                            123173                     354        688          1099
Others                          1203.        112.3        179.3        325.4      689.8        1,009.9
Other Liabilities                                 27.1        29.9          70.2         34.8       13.3           61.2
428.7       528.2         694.1      1,059.9   1,735.3         2,323.3
NET WORTH
Capital Stock:  Common                            94.4       107.2         120.3        131.0      1149.3         219.1
Preferred                        66.1        69.2          76.7         89.7      101.1           56.7
Reserve for retirement of preferred
stock                                         33.4         38.2          43.6         47.2       18.6           17.0
Surplus and other reserves                        16.4        19.9          22.3         29.0       37.6           56.1
Undivided Profits                                 16.0         20.6         25.0         25.8       38.5           76.8
226.3       255.3         287.9        322.7      375-.          426.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES + NET WORTH                       655.0       703.6         982.3      1,382.6   2,110.7         2,7L9.3
1/ Loan investments less reserves for bad debts (about 1.6% of loans outstanding, detailed in Appendix 8).
Source: DRBSLA Annual Reports.
EAP Projects Department
July 6, 1976



KNNEX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RURAL BANKS
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS, 1290-197
(Pesos Million)
12270    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
GROSS INCCMF.
Interest on Loans:
Agricultural Loans
Ordinary                  47.4    55.9    61.5)
CB-IBRD Program            3.5     4.5     6.1)   48.9   109.5   145.9
Commercial Loans              2.4     2.5      3.2     2.4     6.3      8.1
Industrial Loans              1,1     1.0      1.5    11      2.4      2,9
Other Loans                   0.5     o.8      0.9     2,6      7.1    22.0
Interest on Bond Investments    0.5      0.7      1.6    lol       4.4     4.4
Commissions                      0.2     0.4      0,5)    78        - 
Other Earnings                   6.0    2-        8.7)                     1.1
Total Gross Income      61.6    7.7    84.0             153.7   234
EPENDITURES
Interest on:
Deposits                     10.6    14.0    15.8      90C    27.2    37.2
Special Time Deposits         1.2     1.5     2.1      2.3     7.9    10.6
Notes and Loans Payable       3.3     3.6      4.4     .>1    11.3    16.9
Guarantee Fees                   0.2     0.3      0.4     0.4       -       -
Depreciation                     2.2      2.3     2.7     2.1      4.0     5.3
Salaries                        13.8    16.1    18,5    11,2    26.4    33.5
Travel Expenses                  1.7     1.8      2.0   173        3.3     5.0
Stationery, Supplies             0.8     0.9      1.3     2.3      5.6     4.9
Other Operating Expenses        10       1       14.6    37.2   29.0    45.1
Total Expenditure       44.2            61.8    77-1   114.7   158.5
NET INCOME                        17.4    20.8    22.2    24.2    39.0    75.9
Source: DRBSLA, Annual Reports



ANNEX 6
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RURAL BANKS
STATUS OF LOANS OUTSTANDING, DECEMBER 31, 1975
% Arrears
Items in                (Past Due and
Current    Past Due   Litigation   Total        Litigation)
Agricultural
Short Term Non-
Supervised  1/        597.7         117.0       15.9      730.6           18.2
Short Term
Supervised  1/        824.7         309.2       14.2    1,148.1           28.2
Medium and Long Term
Supervised  1/        310.8           8.9        4.1      323.8            4.0
Sub-Total              1,733.2         435.1       34.2    2,202.5           21.3
Commercial                  62.5          19.4        2.1        84.0          25.7
Industrial                  38.4           5.8        0.5        44.7          14.1
Other                       10.3            6.0       0.3        16.6          38.0
TOTAL                    1,844.4         466.3       37.1    2,347.8           21.5
1/ Breakdown extrapolated from 560 reporting banks.



ANNEX 6
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rural Banks
Summary of Loans Granted According to Size and Security
During the Years 1970-1973
1970                     1971                    1972                    1973
Number      Amount      Number      Amount       Number      Amount      Number       Amount
('000)   (T million)  ('000)   (P million)  ('000)  (P million)   ('000)   (H million)
Loan Classification
Size
Up to  o100                      21.2          1.8        18.6         1.6        19.6          1.6        17.5         3.0
P101 to P200                     58.2        10.3         52.4         9.4        52.1          9.4        65.6        20.3
P201 to P500                    124.1        48.4        127.8        50.1       143.8         56.3       193.5        88.2
P501 to l1,000                   91.8        78.1        105.7        88.7       124.2       102.9        200.8       169.2
P1,000 to P2,000                 84.6       142.8         89.2       150.8       100.7       167.2        151.9       244.0
P2,001 to P5,000                 47.0       166.5         60.4       214.0        69.2       240.2         97.0       318.3
P5,001 to P10,000                 7.5        58.5         11.2        83.1        12.8        96.8         16.7       109.9
P10,001 to P20,000                2.4        35.2          3.5        50.4         3.8        57.7          3.9        57.8
Over P20,000                      0.7        17.2          2.9        30.6         1.7         53.1         2.4        63.0
Total               437.5       558.8       471.7        678.7       527.9       785.2        749.3     1,073.7
Security
Real Estate Mortgage            307.6       450.2        334.4       549.7       348.4       608.0        384.3       680.9
Chattels Mortgage:
Growing Crops                  37.7        37.2        45.1         44.7        80.9        78.2        240.0       249.7
Farm Animals                   26.1         5.8        22.7          7.5        29.3        15.1         38.0        44.4
Farm Equipment                  0.9         2.4          1.4         4.0         1.6          7.9)
Guarantee/Sureties               22.8        22.8         23.3        23.8        22.4         26.3)       28.4        38.4
Bank Deposits                     3.1         3.3          4.1         6.2         4.6         6.7)
Pledge of Stored Crops            1.9         5.4          1.7         5.2         2.5          6.0)
Unsecured                        37.4        31.7         39.0        37.6        38.2         37.0        58.6        60.3
Total                437.5       558,8       471.7        678.7       527.9       785.2        749.3    1,073.7
EAP Pro)ects Department
July 13,1976



ANNEX 6
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RURAL BANKS
STATUS OF LOANS OUTSTANDING, DECEMBER 31, 1975
(Pesos Million)
% Arrears
Items in              (Past Due and
Current    Past Due   Litigation  Total       Litigation)
Agricultural
Short Term Non-
Supervised  1/       597.7        117.0        15.9    730.6             18.2
Short Term
Supervised  1/       824.7         309.2       14.2  1,148.1             28.2
Medium- and Long-Term
Supervised  1/       310.8           8.9        4.1    323.8              4.0
Sub-Total          1,733.2         435.1       34.2  2,202.5             21.3
Commercial                 62.5          19.4        2.1     84.0             25.7
Industrial                 38.4           5.8        0.5     44.7             14.1
Other                      10.3           6.0        0.3     16.6             38.0
TOTAL                   1,844.4         466.3       37.1  2,347.8             21.5
Less Reserves for
Bad Debts           -             -          -       37.6
Net Outstanding Loans                                     2,310.2
1/ Breakdown extrapolated from 560 reporting banks.



ANNEX 6
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RURAL BANKS
COLLECTIONS AND ARREARS OF ALL RURAL BANKS
1971-1975
(P Million)
Financial Year
1971     1972      1973    1974    1975
1.  Loan Portfolio                                646.2   782.7   1,070.4  1,718.6  2,347.8
2. Dues and Collections
a) Amount due (principal and interest)
at beginning of financial year           102.8   127.8       159.4    192.8    287.5
b) Instalments fallen due during the
year                                     592.3   680.2       819.4  1,271.2  1,897.1
c)  Collections during the year               567.3   648.6      786.0  1,176.5  1,681.0
d) Amount due (principal and interest)
at the end of financial year             127.8   159.4       192.8    287.5    503.6
3. Ratios
a)  Collections as percent of dues             81.6%   80.3%      80.3%    80.4%    76.9%
b)  Arrears as percent of dues                 18.4%   19.7%       19.7%    19.6%    23.1%
c)  Arrears as percent of loan portfolio   19.8%   20.4%          18.0%    16.7%    21.4%
4.  Arrears under Litigation                       13.3    16.2        18.3      22.5      37.2
5.  Write-Offs during Financial Year               Nil      Nil        Nil       Nil      Nil
6. Provisions for Bad Debts
a)  Total Provisions                           10.2    12.9       14.6      16.9    24.0
b)  As percent of total arrears                 8.0%    8.1%        7.6%      5.9%    4.8%
c)  As percent of loan portfolio                1.6%    1.6%        1.4%     1.6%    1.4%
Source:   DRBSLA, Annual Reports



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Stock Savings and Loan Associations
A. Background, Legal Basis and Organization
1.        Savings and loan associations have now reached the stage in the
Philippines where they are considered an effective instrument for encouraging
savings especially from small savers. Together with the capital in the case
of stock corporations, such savings can be channeled to productive purposes
in industry, commerce and agriculture or loaned for home-building or personal
consumption needs of members and the public. The accumulated funds may also
be invested in securities of productive enterprises and the Government or its
agencies. In the beginning, associations were formed without proper supervi-
sion of their activities and protection of savers. In 1963, there were 254
non-stock savings and loan associations which were more in the nature of
borrower's clubs than credit institutions. Their aggregate resources of
about P 30 million were primarily invested in consumer loans to borrowers with
fixed salaries. Public confidence in them was low as a result of widespread
abuses and mismanagement. Recognizing the important potential of the asso-
ciations, Congress passed the Savings and Loan Associations Act 1/ on June 22,
1963, which empowered the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of the Philip-
pines, (Annex 5) to supervise and regulate the activities of the associations.
2.        The Central Bank of the Philippines (CB), during the initial years
of its supervision, concentrated on introducing discipline within the system
and setting up minimum standards. Pursuant to the Savings and Loan Associa-
tions Act, detailed Rules and Regulations governing the establishment and
operations of savings and loan associations were issued. These efforts re-
sulted in the dissolution of all associations operating below standards: at
the end of 1966, the number of non-stock associations was down to 72 with
aggregate resources of P 23.5 million. At the same time, the first four
licensed stock savings and loan associations cautiously started operations.
3.        To effectively supervise and promote the industry, CB established
the Department of Savings and Loan Associations. In early 1973, it was
merged with the Department of Rural Banks into the Department of Rural Banks
and Savings and Loan Associations (DRBSLA), which is described in Annex 5,
paras 6-8. It is of considerable advantage that both proposed lending
1/   Full title:  An Act to Provide for the Regulation of the Organization
and Operations of Savings and Loan Associations, Republic Act No. 3779
of June, 1963; amended by Republic Act No. 4378 of June 19, 1965, and
Presidential Decree No. 113 of January 20, 1973.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
channels, rural banks and SSLAs fall under the same management. The audit
of associations is carried out by the three Divisions of the Supervision and
Examination Group IV. Other supporting services such as training (Annex 5,
paras 18 and 19) are provided by other sections of DRBSLA. As in the case of
rural banks, on-lending and administration of project funds would be handled
by the three Supervised Credit Groups of the Department. Loan processing would
follow the same procedures as applied to rural banks (Annex 5, paras 11-13).
4.        Participation in Proposed Project.  Only stock associations operating
outside the Greater Manila area would qualify to participate under the project.
As of December 1975, there were 44 SSLAs throughout the Philippines, of which
about half are located in the Greater Manila area. The right to open branch
offices is an advantage the associations have over rural banks. SSLAs would
be required to fulfill the same qualifications as rural banks (Annex 6, para
24). They would follow the same Rules and Regulations and lending terms,
including at least 10% contribution from their own resources. It is anticipa-
ted that about 20 SSLAs would participate in the project. They would sup-
plement the rural banking system, increase the area covered by the project,
and provide some competition to established rural banks. On the basis of
experience under the Third Project it is estimated that disbursements by SSLAs
would not exceed 10% of project funds.
5.        Stock savings and loan associations and non-stock associations are
organized in the Philippine League of Savings and Loan Associations, Inc.
(PHILSLA) which is the equivalent to the Rural Bankers Association of the
Philippines (Annex 6, para 8). PHILSLA represents its members' point of
view in dealings with CB and the Government and maintains public relations.
B. Organization and Operations
Organization and Management
6.        SSLAs are registered as stock corporations under the Corporation
Law, once CB and the Securities and Exchange Commissioner have approved their
establishment. Opening of a branch office or agency requires a license from
the Monetary Board. Stock associations are authorized to accept deposits from,
and extend loans to, the general public, whereas non-stock associations are
permitted to do business with members only. Since the effectiveness of Pres-
idential Decree No. 71 on November 29, 1972, stock associations are classi-
fied as banking institutions. However, they do not enjoy the same privileges
as rural banks, such as exemption from taxes and Government fees and charges
(Annex 6, para 6) and neither do they receive Government capital assistance
nor have they access to CB rediscount facilities or special financing programs
other than the CB:IBRD projects. Their major sources of funds are their
paid-up and accumulated capital, deposits and, to a limited extent, borrow-
ings from CB and other credit institutions.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
7.        SSLAs are managed by a board of directors.  At least two thirds
of the board must be citizens of the Philippines and a director must own a
minimum of P 5,000 of stock at par value. The executive officers are the
president, vice-president, manager, cashier and treasurer, who may not be
officials of the Government or its agencies.
Financial Resources
8.        Capital and Reserves.  The minimum paid-up capital is determined
by the Monetary Board but shall not be less than P 100,000. At present,
it is P 750,000 with an additional P 250,000 for every branch office. At
least 70% of the voting stock must be held by persons of Filipino citizen-
ship. Stock may be issued in the form of common or preferred stock. Large
associations have as many as 200 stockholders with a minimum share of
P 100 par value. The total paid-up stock capital for SSLAs was P 54.4 mil-
lion as of December 31, 1975, which was 17% of total resources. As of the
same date, surplus, reserves and undivided profits were only 3.0 million
or 0.9% of all resources (comparative statement of condition as of Decem-
ber 31, 1974 and 1975 is attached as Table 1, and, for the years 1973-
1975, as Table 2).
9.        Deposits.  The main strength of the SSLAs lies in their ability
to collect funds from stockholders and the public in the form of savings
or time deposits. The interest rates are in line with other banking institu-
tions: 7% p.a. for savings deposits and for time deposits from 8-1/2% p.a.
(90 days) to 12% p.a. (730 days). As of December 31, 1975, savings deposits
of all stock associations totalled P 213.0 million (66% of total resources).
Savings deposits rose by P 36.6 million (31%) and time deposits by P 26.6
million (84%) during the year (Tables 1 and 2). Every association must main-
tain a reserve against its savings and time deposits equivalent to 6% of the
aggregate deposits. At least 20% of the reserve must be held in cash with
CB and the rest in bonds or securities of the Government or its agencies,
provided these are fully guaranteed by the Government. Deposits shall be
insured with the Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation. In addition, the
system has its own Liquidity Guarantee Fund which assisted the associations
against the heavy withdrawals during the floods in July/ August 1972 and the
run on deposits immediately after the imposition of martial law in September
1972.
10.       Borrowings.  The law provides for savings and loan associations
to borrow from CB or, subject to the Monetary Board's approval, rediscount
notes and bills of exchange or other commercial papers at the same interest
rates charged to rural banks although no such discounting has yet been done.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Under the proposed project SSLAs would borrow from CB. The associations
are permitted by law to borrow up to 20% of total assets (or 30% with special
approval of the Monetary Board) from public lending institutions such as the
the Development Bank of the Philippines, Philippine National Bank, the Govern-
ment Service Insurance System, the Social Security System, and from private
lending institutions as may be approved by the Monetary Bcard', Such borrow-
ings are in fact very small.
Lending Operations
11.       Loan Portfolio.  The following table shows loans granted in 1975
and oustanding as of December 31, 1975 (loans granted by purpose for 1973-75
are in Table 3 and by purpose, size and security for 1974 and 1975 are in
Table 4).
Loans Granted       Loans Outstanding
1975           December 31, 1975
Loan Purpose                        Amount  % of Total    Amount   % of Total
(Pesos                  (Pesos
Million)                 Millicn)
Agricultural                       106.0        30.8          72,8        32.8
Industrial                           6.3         1.8          4d2          1.9
Commercial                         150.1        43.7          66e4        29.9
Real Estate                         34.9        10.2          35.4        15.9
Consumption                         46.5        13.5          33L3        19.5
Total                        343.8       100.0         222.1       100.0
Agriculture has risen to become the largest category in lending operations,
followed closely by commercial loans. With increasing pressure in the
Philippines to provide more credit for housing, real estate loans may increase
substantially in coming years.
12.       Loan Size.  During 1975, 11% of loans granted were below P 1,000
and 34% below P 5,000; 37% exceeded P 25,000 (Table 4). Participation under
the Third Project contributed significantly to the increase in large loans
since the great majority of CB:IBRD lending was for 4-wheel tractors.
13.       Loan Periods.  Stock associations are directed to accommodate the
normal credit needs of the consuming public, of industry, coIrnmerce and
agriculture. Therefore, they have primarily provided short-l-erm advances
for a maximum period of one year. Under the law, 1/ the maximum period
permitted was three years except for loans secured by unencumbered real
estate which may be granted up to 20 years. However, this provision was
amended by Presidential Decree to enable SSLAs to grant medium-term dev-
elopment loans making them eligible to participate under CB:IBRD projects.
1/   Republic Act No. 3379, Section 5(a).



ANNEX 7
Page 5
14.       Interest Rates.  The associations may charge up to 12% p.a. or
1% p.m. on loans wholly or partly secured by titled real estate and a maximum
of 14% p.a. or 1-1/6% p.m. on loans otherwise secured or without security.
Actual rates vary from 9% p.a. to 14% p.a.   Interest may be collected in
advance. During the period January 1 to December 31, 1975, 96% of all loans
granted bore interest rates of 12% to 14% per annum (Table 4). Reasonable
application and service fees may be charged as prescribed by the MIonetary
Board. Interest rates and fees charged for sub-loans made under the proposed
project would be equal to those charged by rural banks.
15.       Securities.  Loans mav be granted up to 70% of the fair market
value of property accepted as collateral on first mortgage basis. The limit
for salary loans is the berrower's dc?eoit plus four months' salary or regular
income.  The association's own stock may not serve as security.  During 1975,
72% )f all loans granted were sccurea by real estate or chattel mortgage.
Investments
I').      Savings and loan associationt may invest their funds in any sound
non-speculative enterprise, as well as In bonds, securities and other obliga-
tions issued by the Government or its agencies. however, total investments in
equities must not exceed 25% of the association's net worth, and equity
investment in any single enterprise may not exceed 15% of the association's
net worth and should remain a minority holding in that enterprise, except
where the enterprise is not a financial intermediary. Investment in allied
enterprises fall under CB control which may impose additional limitations.
Aggregate investments in bonds and securities are limited to 10%, and those in
real estate and improvements thereon to 5% of total assets. Total investment
in Government securities as of December 31, 1975 amounted to P 11.5 million
(3.6% of total resources).
C. Operational Results
17.       Repayments.  Collections by SSLAs as of September 30, 1973 were
98.9% of dues as well as of loan portfolio. Only P 1.0 million was due and
not repaid. As of December 31, 1975, only four of the 167 loans granted
under the CB:IBRD program were in arrears and total arrears were P 25,000 or
0.2% of loans outstanding. In justifiable cases, SSLAs may reschedule their
loans under the following conditions: (a) for productive loans, the extension
may not exceed half the original period, provided that 30% of the loan has
been paid; a second extension may be allowed, provided that it does not exceed
half the period of the first extension; (b) loans for medical purposes may be
extended by the original period, provided 30% of the loan has been paid; and
(c) the extension of consumer loans shall not exceed half the original period,
provided that 50% of the loan has been repaid.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
i8.       Profits.  The net income of the system shows a positive trend over
the last three years (Table 5) although 1973 performance was only marginally
higher than that of 1972. Net income for 1975 amounted to -3 4.5 million,
an increase of 62% over the P 2.8 million in 1974. The largest items on the
income side are interest on commercial loans (18%), interest on agricultural
loans (17%), and fees and charges on agricultural loans (16%); revenue from
agricultural loans amounted to only 5% of gross income in 1973.
19.       During 1975, paid-up capital increased from P 41.7 million as
of December 31, 1974 by P 12.7 million or 30% to P 54.4 million. The average
return on shareholders' investment increased from 6.7% in 1974 to 8.3% in
1975. The net income of percent of interest and dividend earning assets
(loan portfolio, Government securities and equity investments) was 1.6% and
1.8% respectively for the two years. In terms of gross income, the net
income was 11.4% in 1975 against 10.5% in 1974. Although profitability is
still modest, all indicators shown an upward trend.
20.       Audit.  The Supervision and Examination Group IV of DRBSLA is
responsible to examine all SSLAs at least once a year, and conduct special
examinations as necessary. In fact 30 audits were conducted in 1975 of the
38 associations in existence at the beginning of that year. If as a result
of any examination, CB finds that an association is viola-- ng any law,
charter or Rules and Regulations, it may order corrective measures or dis-
continuance of operations, or may even take over possession of assets.
In the first three years after CB assumed supervision of savings and loan
associations in 1963, 177 non-stock associations were dissolved or liquidated,
but no stock associations have yet failed, in part because CB supervision
includes technical assistance and training of personnel. DRBSLA also checks
auditing contracts between stock associations and independent auditors.



ANNEX 7
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STOCK SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATICNS
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF CCNDITION
DECEMBER 31. 1974 AND DECEMBER 31, 1975
(PESOS MILLION)
December 31, 1974   .       December 31 1975               2Chanes   2/
Ambunt     X of Total       Amount        of  Total       Amount     %
ASSETS
Cash and Due from Banks             15.4        7.3              28.7         8.9             13.3   86.J
Due from Central 3ank                3.1         1.5              3.3         1.0               0.2    6.4
Government Securities               13.1        6.2              11.5         3.6              (1.6) -(12.2)
Loans and Discounts                145.0       68.8             222.0        68.8              77.0  53.1
Other Investments                   18.8        8.9              19.1         5.9               0.3    1.6
Furniture, Fixture, Equipment
Leasehold Improvements (Nets       7.7         3.7             12.5         3.9               4.8  62.3
Other Assets                         7.6        3.6              25.6         79              18.0  236.8
Total Assets                  210.7      100.0             322.7       100.0             112.0  _3.2
LIABILITIES
Savings Deposits                   113.2        56.o            154.8        48.o              36.6  31.0
Time Deposits                       31.6        15.1             58.2        18.0              26.6  84.2
Borrowings                           4.7         2.2             34.8        10.8              30.1  640.4
Accounts Payable                                  -                -                             -      -
Unearned Interest/Discount            7.1        3.3              8.4         2.6               1.3   18.3
Other Liabilities                    4.9         2.4              9.1         2.8              4L2   85.7
Total Liabilities             166.5        79.0265.3                    82.2              98.8    9.3
NET 4ORTH
Paid-Up Capital                     41.7        19.7             54.4        16.9              12.7  30.5
* ithdrawable Share Resarva           -          -                 -           -                -       -
curplus and Surplus Reserves         o.6        0.3               o.6         0.2        
Undivided Profits                                1.0              2.4         0.7               o.
Total Net ,Jorth               44. 2       21.0                         17.8             13.2   29.9
Total Liabilities and Net Worth    210.7    LJ.0.               322.7       100.0             122.0  L3.2
1/ To total assets
I/ Ratio of net change to December 1974 (base period)
Source: SSLA, Annual Reports



ANNEX 7
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STOCK SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF CONDITION
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1973-1975
(Pesos Million)
1973      Change        1974      Change         1975       Change
Amount    1972/73       Amount      1973/74      Amount      1974/75
ASSETS
Cash and Due from Banks                   11.5       30.6          15.4        33.9         28.7        86.4
Due from Central Bank                      1.1        -             3.1       181.8          3.3         6.4
Government Securities                       8.7      148.5         13.1        50.5         11.5       (12.2)
Loans and Discounts                       99.2        41.1        145.0        46.1        222.0        53.1
Other Investments                         13.8         (9.8)       18.8        36.2         19.1         1.6
Furniture, Fixtures, Equipment,
Leasehold Improvements (Net)              5.0      100.0          7.7        54.0         12.5        62.3
Other Aseets                               4.9        96.0          7.6        55.1         25.6       236.8
Total Assets                  144.2         40.1       210.7        46.1        322.7        53.2
LIABILITIES
Savings Deposits                          82.4        57.2        118.2        43.4        154.8        31.0
Time Deposits                             17.9         36.6        31.6        76.5         58.2        84.2
Borrowings                                 1.3        (7.1)        4.7       261.5          34.8       640.4
Accounts  Payable                          _            _           _           _            _           _
Unearned Interest/Discount                 4.6        53.3          7.1        54.3          8.4        18.3
Other Liabilities                          2.9       207.1          4.9       157.9          9.1        85.7
'Total Liabilities             109.1        51.9       166.5        52.6        265.3        59.3
NET WORTH
Paid-up Capital                           33.9        12.2        41.7         23.0         54.4        30.5
Withdrawable Share Reserve                  -           -           -           -            -
Surplus and Surplus Deserves               0.2       100.0          0.6      200.0           0.6         -
Undivided Profits                          1.0        25.0          1.9        90.0          2.4        26.3
Total Net Worth                 35.1        12.8        44.2        25.9         57.4        29.9
Total Liabilities and Net Worth   144.2           40.1       210.7        46.1        322.7         53.2
Source: SSLA, Annual Reports
EAP Projects Department
July 13, 1976



ANNEX 7.
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STOCK SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS
COMPARATIVE SUMMARY OF LOANS GRANTED AND OUTSTANDING (BY PURPOSE)
DURING THE YEARS 1973-1975
(Pesos Million)
Change From                                  Change From
Loans Granted        Previous Year        Loans Outstanding       Previous Year
Year       Loan Purpose           Amount    % of Total    Amount      b      Amount    I of Total      Amount       %
1973       Agricultural             8.4         5.7          0.1     1.2       7.8          7.9          2.3      41.8
Industrial              4.3          2.9         2.6   152.9        2.3         2.1           1.7     283.3
Commercial             65.3         44.4        12.6    23.9       36.2        36.2          10.7      42.0
Real estate            40.9         27.8        12.0    41.5       39.3        39.3          13.0      49.4
Consumption            28.1         19.2         9.2    48.6       14.7        14.6           2.3      18.5
Total            147.0        100.0        36.5    33.0      100.3       100.0          30.0      42.7
1974       Agricultural            29.0        13.0         20.6   245.2      23.4         16.1         15.6     200.0
Industrial              2.0          0.9        (2.3)  (53.5)       1.8         1.2          (0.5)   (217)
Commercial            105.2         47.4        39.9    61.1       50.3        34.7          14.1      38.9
Real estate            40.8         18.4        (0.1)   (0.2)      29.5        20.4          (9.8)    (25)
Consumption            45.1         20.3        17.0    60.5       40.0        27.6          25.3     172.1
Total            222.1        100.0        75.1    51.1      145.0       100.0          44.7      44.6
1975       Agricultural           106.0        30.8         77.0   265.5      72.8         32.8         49.4     211.1
Industrial              6.3          1.8         4.3   215.0        4.2         1.9           2.4     133.3
Commercial            150.1         43.7        44.9    42.7       66.4        29.9          16.1      32.0
Real estate            34.9         10.2        (5.9)  (14.5)      35.4        15.9           5.9      20.0
Consumption            46.5         13.5         1.4      3.1      43.3        19.5           3.3       8.2
Total            343.8        100.0       121.7    54,8      222.1       100.0          77.1      53,2
Source: SSLA, Annual Reports
EAP Projects Department
July 13, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STOCK SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS
LOANS GRANTED JANUARY 1 - DECENBER 31, 1974-1975
kresos Million)
January 1 to         January 1 to
December 31,         December 31,
1974                 1975               Change
Loan Classification               Amount      %        Amount      %        Amount    _
A,  Loans by Purpose              222.1    100.0        343.8    100.0      121.7      54.8
Agricultural                   29.0      13.0      106.0      30.8       77.0    265.5
Supervised                    0.9      0.4        15.8       4.6       14.9  1,655.6
Non-supervised               28.1     12.6        90.2      26.2       62.1    221.0
Commercial                    105.2     47.4       150.1      43.7       44.9     42.7
Industrial                      2.0      0.9         6.3       1.8        4.3    215.0
Real estate                    40.8      18.4       34.9      10.2       (5.9)   (14.5)
Consumption                    45.1     20.3        46.5      13.5        1.4       3.5
B.  Loans by Size                 222,1    100.0        343.8    100,0      121.7      54.8
Up to P1,000                   36.8     16.6        36.2      10.5       (0.6)    (1.6)
P1,O0l-R5,000                  57.2     25.8        79.6      23.2       22.4      39e2
5,001-B10,000                  25.6      11.5       32.7       9.5        7.1      27.7
P10,001-P25,000                37.8      17.0       69.6      20.2       31.8      84.1
Over P25,000                   64.7      29.1      125.7      36.6       61.0      94.3
C.  By Type of Security           222.1    100.0       343.8    100.0       121.7      54.8
Unsecured                      78.8     35.5        97.4      28.3       18.6      23.6
Secured                       143.3     64.5       246.4      71.7      103.1      71.9
D.  By Interest Rate              222.1    100.0        343.8    100.0      121.7      54.8
Below 6%                       -        -           -                     -        -
6% but less than 8%            -        -            1.8       0.5        1.8 
8% but less than 10%            2.0      0.9         0.1       0.1       (1.9)   (95.0)
10% but less than 12%          24.1     10.8        12.1       3.5      (12.0)   (49.8)
12% and above                 196.0     88.3       329.8      95.9      133.8     68.3
Source: SSLA Annual Reports
EAP Projects Department
July 13, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT         -
STOCK SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1973-1975
(Pesos Thousand)
1973          %          1974           'h          1975          7.
Amount      Change       Amount       Change        Amount       Change
GROSS INCOME
Interests on
Agricultural Loans                      873         17.6        1,660         90.1         6,601       297.6
Industrial Loans                        145        (37.5)         173        19.3           519        200.0
Commercial Loans                      3,962          5.5        6,069         53.2         7,309        20.4
Real Estate Loans                     3,386         21.3        3,783         11.7        4,202          11.1
Consumption Loans                     2,757         35.6        5,588        102.7        5,738           2.7
Interests on Bank Deposits                354         56.6          409         15.5        1,029        151.6
Interests/Dividends on Investments    2,874           81.7        3,407         18.5        4,282         25.7
Fees and Other Charges                  1,098         61.7        2,752        150.6        6,474        135.2
Other Earnings                          1,878        374.2        2,588         37.8                       31.3
Total Gross Income                17,327         39.3      26,429         52.5        39,552         49.6
EXPENSES
Salaries                                3,763         38.1        4,849         28.9        6,332          30.6
Per Diems, Allowances                     961         59.3        1,641         70.6        2,460         49.9
Meeting and Election Expenses              20        (86.6)          27         35.0            78       188.9
Interests on Deposit Liabilities        5,056         55.1        8,601         70.1       13,984         62.6
Interests on Borrowings                   182         19.7          238         30.8           516       116.8
Taxes                                     254        109.9          416         63.8           556         33.6
Organization Expenses                      91         19.7          135         48.4           147         8.9
Stationery and Supplies                   526         42.9        1,075       104.4         1,200         11.6
Bond/Insurance Premiums                   262         79.4          348         32.8           452        29.9
Postage, Telephone and Telegraph          109         37.9          141         29.4           177        25.5
Rent                                      706         11.7          769          8.9         1,028        33.7
Light and Water                           270         32.3          549        103.3           768        39.9
Depreciation                              661         45.6          977        47.8         1,452         48.6
Other Operating Expenses                2,750         55.8        3,886         41.3        5,907          52.0
Total Expenses                    15,611         45.4      23,652         51.5        35,057         48.2
NET INCOME                              1,716          0.8        2,777         61.8        4,495         61.9
Source: SSLA, Annual Reports
EAP Projects Department
July 13, 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Mechanization Component
A. Introduction
Previous Bank Financing of Farm Mechanization
1.        The three previous Rural Credit Projects contained major components
in support of mechanization as follows:
Mechanization Share of Total
Loan    Appraisal Estimate  Final Result
Effective Completed Amount  Amount         %       Amount    %
----------(Us$ Million)---------------
Project I (432-PH)        1965        1968      5.0    2.0         40%        4.5%   89
Project II (637-PH)       1969        1972    12.5    9.0          72%       10.6    85
Project III (1010-PH)/a  1974         1976    22.0   15.8          72%       19.4    88
/a   Details of the mechanization financing under the Third Project appear
in Table 1 of this Annex.
The largest share of farm mechanization funds has gone to four-wheel tractor
financing. About 57% of all four-wheel tractor sales in the Philippines
in 1975 were financed by the CB:IBRD program. This category consumed 64%
of the total proceeds under the Third Project. About 9% of single axle
tractor sales were financed by the CB:IBRD program in 1975, and this category
accounted for over 8% of project proceeds. Table 2 summarizes tractor sales
in CB:IBRD financing in recent years.
B. Role and Status of Mechanization
in Philippine Agriculture
2.        The Government has a goal to achieve and maintain self-sufficiency
in rice and corn while at the same time increasing the production levels of
other crops. There is a particular desire to increase sugar production since
this is a major foreign exchange earning commodity in the country. Production



ANNEX 8
Page 2
in all three of these crops can be increased if appropriate mechanization
is selected and correctly utilized. Mechanized cultural practices will
improve the quality of tillage, permit increase cropping intensity and more
efficient use of irrigation, and will complement the increased application of
fertilizers, insecticides as well as adoption of high yielding varieties of
rice and corn. Rice, corn and sugarcane are the three crops for which ad-
ditional mechanization would be provided under the Fourth Rural Credit Project.
The total land area of the Philippines is 30 million hectares of which 9.8
million are covered by farm holdings. 1/ The cultivated acreage has been
estimated to be 6.7 million hectares with approximately 30% under full irri-
gation. A comparison of the areas harvested and the corresponding production
of rice, corn and sugarcane is presented below for the years 1961 and 1971.
Comparison of Areas Harvested and Production of Rice,
Corn and Sugarcane for 1961 and 1971. /a
Area Harvested                 Production
('000 ha)        %       ('000 m tons)      %
Crop              1961      1971    Change   1961    1971    Change
Rice                   3,198    3,113    - 2.6   3,704    5,343        44.3
Corn                   2,046    3,392       65.8   1,210    2,005      65.7
Sugarcane                232       442     90.5   1,709    2,980       74.4
/a   Adopted from IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey Philippines, Vol. (I).
The General Report, May 1973.
3.        With the exception of the decrease in the area of rice harvested
during the period there is a marked increase in both area and production
of these major crops. While a portion of the increase can be attributed to
the application of improved agricultural cropping technology involving
improved seed varieties (HYV's), fertilization and weed control, there is
no doubt that mechanization also played a significant role through its
effect on cropping intensity, tillage quality and timeliness of planting.
4.        Land preparation is the task on which the great majority of farm
mechanization in the Philippines has been focused. Increased power avail-
able from four-wheel tractors and to a lesser extent from power tillers
has provided the capability of preparing relatively dry soils for planting
in advance of, or in early stages of the rainy season, which could not be
accomplished by the use of carabaos. This early beginning coupled with a
shorter time requirement for land preparation (one hectare requires 5 to 6
hours by a four-wheel tractor, 5 to 7 days by a power tiller and up to 20 days
1/   IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, Vol. (I), The General
Report, May 1973.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
by carabaos) permits a greater degree of selection for the time of seeding.
Timely seeding is critical to yields in both rainfed and irrigated crop-
ping, and speed of preparation is especially important to the intensity
of cropping under irrigated conditions.
5.        The International Rice Pesearch institute (IRRI' has, in its farm
machinery research program, placed emphasis on the design and development of
equipment to meet the needs of small farmers. Equipment which has been or is
being developed and improved includes: single axle tractors (commonly and
perhaps incorrectly termed power tillers), a low cost four-wheel riding tractor
in the 15-20 hp range, a manually-drawn deep placement 1iould fertilizer
injector, a deep placement granular applicator, low lift Je- water pumps, hand
drawn seeders and weeders, portable threshers, grain drye-s and rice milling
equipment.  Among the machines being developing at IRRI, 9ajor attention has
focused on the power tiller.
Power Tillers
6.        Power tiller sales in the Philippines between 1965 and 1975 with
sales projections to 1980 are displayed in Table 2. A surprisingly large
number of these units (7,000 units in 1974 and 11,000 in 1975) were acquired
by individual farmers. The sales in 1975 received impetus from the outbreak
of Hoof and Mouth Disease when 14,000 work animals were infected. This out-
break led to a special financing program under which the Land Bank of the
Philippines financed 2,900 power tillers while the Development Bank of the
Philippines undertook to finance 600 four-wheel tractors. Liberalized financ-
ing terms employed under the program may not result in a t--rue economic assess-
ment of the merits from the single axle tractor. In any e3vent the power tiller
population by the year end 1975 approached a total of 28.300 -units. There are
now 32 manufacturers of local tillers and 13 distributors of local and imported
models.
7.        There are three types of power tillers used in -_  Philippines:
Type I: Single Axle Power Tillers - These locally manu-
factured units are lightweight, usually with 4 to 6 hp
gasoline engines. Rotary tiller blades are mounted on a
transverse main axle which is driven by the engine through
a chain and sprocket drive.  These tillers are not usually
used for dryland work or for hauling applications. T-hey are
not equipped with differertial mechanisms or steering clutches.
Type II. General Power Tillers -his type of tiller --
usually equipped with an air cooled engine having up Lo 8 hp
capacity.  Usually imported, it is fitted with wheels ^nd can
perform several farm operations by attaching conventio-al
draft dependent farm implements such as plows, harrows and
cultivators.  The tillers are equipped with differential
mechanisms or steeriog clutches.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Type III: Double Axle Power Tillers - These imported units
have two drive wheels and the tilling mechanism consists of a
series of knives attached to a rotating shaft installed behind
the main wheel axle. These tillers are not as versatile as the
other two types but they are well suited to tilling heavy clay
paddy fields because of their construction and larger powered
engines which range from 6 to 14 hp capacity.
Four-Wheel Tractors
8.        The number of four-wheel tractors in the Philippines reached 12,500
by year end 1975 and based on a straight line projection would approach 20,000
tractors by 1980. Farm tractor sales are summarized for 1970-1975 in Table 2,
and presented by power class between 1967 and 1975 in Table 3. All four-wheel
tractors sold in the Philippines are imported and the general trend in tractor
production in exporting countries is toward larger capacity machines. This
trend has been carried over into the Philippines as represented by 76% of
the recent sales in the medium 67 to 80 hp class.
9.        Four-wheel tractors marketed in the Philippines are classified
according to horsepower capacity as noted below. 1/
(a) Heavy Class - over 80 hp.
(b) Medium Class - 67 to 80 hp, weight 5,000 to 6,999 lbs.
(c) Medium Light Class - 50 to 66 hp, weight 4,000 to 4,999 lbs.
(d) Light Class - less than 50 hp, weight less than 4,000 lbs.
All four-wheel tractors marketed in the Philippines are imported models and
the trend in exporting countries is towards the development and production
of larger machines to meet domestic requirements and to export the same
machines. Even a 30 to 40 hp tractor is too large for the small holdings
typical of the Philippines and the purchase of four-wheel units requires
in most cases that custom hire services be undertaken to justify the invest-
ment. This, however, is a common practice. The machinery industry in the
1/   The 1975 Annual Report of the Agricultural Machinery Dealers Association
in the Philippines (AMDA) gives the classification to be: Heavy Class -
90 hp and up, weight over 7,000 lbs; Medium Class - 70 to 89 hp; Medium
Light Class - 50 to 68 hp, weight 4,000 to 4,999 lbs. In our appraisal,
however, we have retained the ranges presented in the test above.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Philippines has popularized medium class tractors (67-80 hp) and there has
been a follow-the-leader trend within the industry. Salesmanship within the
industry is competitive and the various dealers are very aggressive in pro-
moting the sales of their product lines. Tractors are sold by nine major
companies in the country and the major portion of sales has been shared by
four of these. In 1974, 82% of the sales were accounted for by these four
companies while in 1975 a similar larger percentage was shared by five
companies.
10.       As of July 1, 1976 there were about 1,100 tractors in dealers'
stocks in the Philippines. Based on AMDA estimates of irrevocable agree-
ments to purchase, this number will rise to about 2,300 by March 3, 1977,
less interim sales. About 85% of these units are in the 80 hp range. While
this inventory seems inordinately large, in fact it results from a six month
period in which CB:IBRD funds were not available, during which time as many as
650 units might have been sold under the program. The balance of 450 units is
equivalent to 20% of annual sales in 1975, and a turnover rate of five times
per year is reasonable under Philippine conditions. Commitments as of that
date for subsequent delivery conform to a similar pattern and were based on
the expectation of speedy processing of the Fourth Project and a retroactive
financing component.
11.       The fulfillment of the long-term development objectives of the
proposed project must not be jeopardized by short-term considerations such
as large inventories. However, with a revised pricing policy for all future
sales (para 21) and a consequent reduction in tractor prices, a deferment of
tractor size limitations for a period of 18 months from the date of the Loan
Agreement or financing of 1,000 units of tractors in excess of 68 hp, which-
ever shall come first, would be appropriate in order that some of the larger
units in stock may be sold to rice and corn growers as well as to sugarcane
growers (para 18).
C. Need for Mechanization
12.       Despite the inherent economic and social dangers which accompany
mechanization, in a typical developing country context, (Section B), this
development is essential to the realization of Government's stated objectives
of increased agricultural production and efficiency. There are a number of
constraints on agricultural productivity in the Philippines which can be
eliminated through mechanization:
(i) The benefits of high-yielding rice varieties can only be
achieved to the greatest extent with irrigation and increased
cropping intensity, both of which increase the importance of
speed and timeliness of land preparation. The preparation
of one ha of paddy land using a carabao requires 17-20 days
compared to five to seven days using a hand tractor and five
or six hours using a four-wheel tractor;



ANNEX 8
Page 6
(ii) The carabao is unable to sustain peak output for
longer than a few hours each day, and requires
recovery periods of months between work periods;
he is susceptible to debilitating diseases such as
Foot and Mouth, and theft of work animals is a wide-
spread problem. With increased cultivation, parti-
cularly in densely populated areas, feed is in
limited supply;
(iii) With increased multiple cropping an acute labor
shortage occurs in many areas at the time when
harvesting of one crop and land preparation for
the next crop are taking place simultaneously;
not only is the execution of such the completion
of these primary task jeopardized, but weeding,
dike repair, and other productive activities
must frequently be foregone; and
(iv) A number of special operations require draft power
which is only reasonably supplied by machines:
deep tillage for sugar production; land forming and
levelling in irrigated areas; and land clearing
and initial cultivation in previously undeveloped
areas.
13.       The major economic concern surrounding the mechanization of agri-
culture in countries of high population density and unemployment pertains
to the displacement of labor. Mechanization in the Philippines has been
focused on land preparation which, with increasing crop intensity, occurs
at the same time as the more labor-intensive harvesting, and in fact
trends to compensate for labor shortages at that time. Increased intensity,
area, and production with mechanization in fact increase total labor per
unit of area and per year according to available evidence 1/. The proposed
project includes a comprehensive study of this issue (Annex 12).
D. Technical and Financial Assessment
of the Proposed Project
14.       CB proposal included sub-categories to finance four-wheel tractors
to be used for sugar, rice and corn production, power tillers, farm implements,
irrigation pumps, trucks and threshers. The discussion which follows will
deal with each sub-category in order.
1/   For example, Table 4 presents a comparison of labor utilization
by a sample of farmers with and without tractor.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
Four-Wheel Tractors for Sugarcane Production
15.       Tractors in the medium and heavy classes are used for land prepara-
tion in sugarcane growing areas, of which approximately 600 units were pur-
chased by sugar growers under the Third Project. Implements used with these
tractors include sub-soil moldboard plows, heavy duty subsoil cultivators,
disk plows and disk harrows. Cultural practices pertaining to land prepara-
tion for sugarcane involve deep tillage plowing and cultivating with attendant
high power requirements and tractors of up to 80 hp are needed for these oper-
ations. Farmers engaged in sugarcane production are, generally, in a more
affluent position because of favorable prices and operating margins and a
secure market in the export quota. (The Philippines does not currently meet
its export quota). There is therefore a desire to increase sugar production
to raise the level of foreign exchange earnings, but at the same time, the
Bank must consider the relative importance of supporting this activity on a
large scale and, alternatively, shifting the project focus toward less priv-
ileged beneficiaries.
16.       A small sugarcane farmer cultivating 7 ha or less could not justify
the purchase of a medium tractor on the basis of his own requirements.
Custom hire services of the volume required to make the investment viable
could be undertaken but it is unlikely that many small farmers possess the
collateral or management ability to undertake such a loan. A model for a 15
ha sugarcane farm is presented in Table 5. A financial rate of return of
16.6% was obtained from the model assuming reasonable custom hire utilization.
The break-even point was found to be just over 500 hours (503). This time
requires the cultivation of at least 85 ha including the owner's own farm
area. Custom hire on any excess area will enable him to turn a profit at
prevailing custom rates. Annual use of tractors in sugar areas up to 1,500
hours including custom work is practical and commonly observed and much of the
custom work now done in the Philippines is performed on small farms.
17.       The mission's recommendation to support financing of sugarcane trac-
tors is based on, (i) their viability and (ii) their utilization (actual) for
custom work on small farms. However, we recommend only 450 units (75% of the
volume financed under the Third Project) as a step in phasing out support in
view of the generally more favorable financial condition in which sugarcane
growers find themselves compared to that of other potential beneficiaries of
project funds.
Four-Wheel Tractors for Rice and Corn Production
18.       Use of four-wheel tractors for land preparation in rice and corn
producing areas has achieved a remarkable degree of acceptance in the
Philippines. Implements commonly used with tractors include plows, disk
harrows and rotovators. Puddling wheel attachments are required on tractors
used for rice paddy culture. Purchasers of tractors together with com-
plementing implements have been generally influenced by the recommendation
of dealers in selecting the power class and the great majority of units are
in the 67-80 hp (medium) range. However, field observations and interviews



ANNEX 8
Page 8
with farmers have led the mission to conclude that tractors having power
capacities above 68 hp represent an excess power requirement for land
preparation operations in rice and corn producing areas using the plows,
rotovators and disk harrows currently being matched with these tractors.
The appraisal report for the Third Rural Credit Project, 1/ in considera-
tion of the horsepower requirement, contains the paragraph:
The Project proposes to exclude financing of tractors
with horsepower in excess of 80 hp since the efficiency of the
tractor depends primarily on the size of the implements used
rather than on the motive power available. In rice production
four-wheel tractors are used mainly for rotovating which
requires a constant low speed of 3 to 6 km/hr, regardless of
the size of the power unit. Philippine farmers generally use
a 50-60 inch rotovator with tractors ranging from 45-80 hp, and
obtain little or no increase in capacity with the increase in
tractor hp class. It is only in extensive upland (rainfed)
agriculture that it is possible to increase output by in-
creasing ground speed (with the same size of implements);
however on small plots and in paddy conditions, this is not
practical or possible."
We concur completely with the judgement that many tractors in the Philippines
are overpowered for the operations they perform and further propose to extend
the constraint to exclude financing of tractors with power capacity in excess
of 68 hp for rice and corn cultivation. The agricultural engineer on the
previous mission agrees with this proposal, pointing out that the 80 hp limit
under the Third Project was intended as a step in phasing out the financing
of excess power under the CB:IBRD program. However, in view of the inventory
situation described in para 10, imposition of this horsepower limitation would
be deferred until 18 months after the date of the Loan Agreement or financing
of 1,000 units of tractors in excess of 68 hp, whichever shall come first
(para 11). Present utilization rates are sufficiently high to support the
additional investment and the continued sale of such units, while not optimum
in terms of cost effectiveness, would alleviate a serious foreign exchange
and trade problem.
19.       A small farmer cultivating 7 hectares or less of rice or corn
cannot justify the purchase of a medium light tractor on the basis of work
required on his own farm. For reasons similar to those offered in the
case of sugar tractors, we believe farmers with larger holdings are more
likely to avail themselves of credit for these tractors. A rice farm is
presented in Table 6. A financial rate of return 12.5% was obtained from
the model. The break-even point was found to be just over 500 hours (506).
This time requires the cultivation of approximately 90 hectares of land
1/   Philippines:  Appraisal of the Third Rural Credit Project, Report
No. 428a-PH, Annex 8, p. 8.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
including the owners's own farm area. This volume of work is feasible and
often observed with existing tractors. Funds would be provided under the
project for about 1,325 tractors for rice and corn areas. We estimate that
about 550 of these units would be in the 80 hp range, being sold before the
power limit deadline and reflecting available stocks and dealer influence on
customer preference. While somewhat less cost effective, investments in these
larger units would still be viable.
20.       Pricing Policy.  Price guidelines for four-wheel tractors were
established by AMDA in 1967. A limit on gross margins was set at that time at
100%, a figure which reflects the willingness of the market to bear high prices.
Actual margins at present range among models from a low of 58% to a high of 82%
over total bodega (warehouse) cost. There are characteristics of the Philippine
market which justify margins greater than those encountered in some western
countries: relatively low volume, a scattered market, and a two-tiered distri-
butor/dealer system in most cases. Nevertheless present margins appear to be
excessive, and conducive to the proliferation of brands and the support of
high-cost, low volume distribution systems for which the ultimate buyers pays
the price. There are at present 16 brands of four-wheel tractors sold in the
Philippines: one brand accounted for about 41% of sales in 1975, and 91% of
sales was made up of only 6 brands. The majority of firms uses a franchise
dealership network rather than the lower-cost alternative of multi-product,
multi-brand outlets. High margins per unit permit such a system at low sales
volume, but in economic terms the pattern is to be seriously questioned.
21.       Ceiling Price Guidelines.  On the basis of detailed cost information
acquired for the first time during appraisal of this project, continued Bank
support of tractor sales at present price levels was considered as inappro-
priate. During discussions with Government officials in Manila, we found
their concern over price levels and desire to proceed with measures of reduc-
ing tractor prices. Under the Fourth Project, therefore, the present ceiling
price guidelines would be modified so that the maximum retail price would be
170% of the bodega (warehouse) cost; defined under the project as the sum of
(a) c.i.f. Manila, (b) 30% of c.i.f. Manila primarily to cover duties and
taxes but also other miscellaneous costs, and (c) the direct cost of local
content. 1/ This limit would also be applied on options and implements.
Rules and Regulations governing the project would specify these ceiling prices
2/ and further state that pricing policy on spare parts would not be adjusted
so as to result in higher margins than those in effect during 1975. Monitor-
ing of this system would be the responsibility of TSEU. Cost data in the
format presently furnished by all participating companies to TSEU would be
sufficient for monitoring purposes, although certain cost items such as local
assembly would require more explicit definition so as to prevent de facto
margins within cost data. The effect of these ceiling prices would be to
reduce average tractor prices by about 11%.
1/   The reduction in ceiling price will result primarily from a redefinition
of total bodega cost to exclude all but basic documented costs which are
consistent with normal trade practices.
2/   A separate memorandum will be issued to specify the maximum retail
prices by models.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
Power Tillers
22.       A model for a locally manufactured single axle machine on a 3-
hectare farm is presented in Table 7. A financial rate of return of 8%
was obtained from the model. It has been estimated that land preparation
can be carried out over total period of 90 days of the year in irrigated,
multiple cropping areas. Based on this assumption and a normal capacity
of 6 days per ha (complete preparation), a tiller owner would cultivate
15 ha per year. At 175% intensity, an owner's farm of three ha would be
equivalent to 5.2 ha, leaving custom hire capacity of 9.8 ha, slightly less
than the area of two similar farms with the same cropping intensity. In
some areas of the Philippines, tractor and tiller population is nearing the
point at which custom hire opportunities may be limited. Sub-loan appraisal
must therefore consider the probability that such opportunities remain suffi-
cient to ensure satisfactory utiliztion rates.
23.       Financial returns alone are insufficient to justify investment
on power tillers as a priority or to explain the large volume of sales of
these units. In addition to the benefits for which financial returns have
been conservatively estimated in our model, there are other real benefits
to be considered. Land preparation period requires less time than with
carabaos (tiller time 6 days, carabao time 20 days) which is significant
relating to timeliness of planting. Planting two weeks earlier during the
planting season may very well be a significant factor in raising the yield
from the crop by ensuring sufficient moisture at the time of seed filling.
From a work drudgery and calorie consumption point of view, the operator
spends fewer arduous hours on a hectare working behind a tiller than he
does behind a carabao. This time saved can be profitably spend doing other
necessary farm tasks related to crop care such as timely application of
fertilizer, weeding or repairing paddy field dikes as required. In other
instances, the time saved may be utilized in other wage earning activities.
While we have used an estimated increase in cropping intensity from 150%
to 175% with a tiller to account for several of these factors, the increase
may be significantly higher in some cases. The investment also results
in elimination of risk associated with carabao disease or loss, 1/ and the
forage requirements of work animals - a serious problem in some areas.
Custom hire services are a source of cash which frequently keeps owners
from the need to borrow for essential purchases between harvests. Conse-
quent savings on interest are often considerable, especially since most of
this borrowing takes place in the informal sector (Annex 1, para 18).
24.       Price Guidelines on Tiller Financing.  The tiller model presented
in Table 7 is based on a locally manufactured single axle unit. Larger,
diesel-powered tillers with rotovators are imported into the Philippines and
have been included under previous projects. However, in recent years the
1/   The occurrence of Foot and Mouth Disease in 1975 infected 14,000 work
animals in the Philippine.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
cost of these units has risen to present levels of P 25,000-35,000 compared
to P 7,000-9,000 for local units. Capacity is only about one-third higher -
about 4 days per ha compared to six days - although economic life is consid-
erably longer - 8 to 10 years compared to 4 to 5. These imported models have
a significant status appeal for buyers which explains to a great extent
their popularity despite the fact of their non-viability when analyzed on
the standard marginal investment basis. The c.i.f. Manila cost of imported
unit is approximately equivalent to the retail price of local units, the bal-
ance of retail price for the imported units consisting of local assembly and
transport costs and dealer's margins. Imported units do possess productive
features not available on local models and a consequent price differential is
to be expected. However, the present difference of as much as 4 times is, in
the judgment of the Government, not justified either by machine characteris-
tics or the structure of the industry. The question of price is particularly
important in view of the marginal viability of tiller investments. The maxi-
mum retail price to be considered for financing under the project would be
175% of the bodega (warehouse) cost; defined under the project as the sum of
(a) c.i.f. manila, (b) 42% of c.i.f. Manila primarily for taxes and duties
but also including other miscellaneous costs, and (c) the direct cost of
local content. It would be the responsibilities of TSEU to this system. The
effect of these ceiling prices would be to reduce tiller prices on an average
by about 15%.
Farm Implements
25.       The project would also include financial assistance to current four-
wheel tractor owners for the purchase of additional or alternate implements
to increase the efficiency of their tractor utilization. In addition to CB
request for 140 rotovators for this purchase, an allocation has been included
for about 100 units of other tractor drawn implements and P 100,000 for the
purchase of broader range of implements by small farmers owning carabaos.
Irrigtion Pumps
26.       The need and scope for irrigation development in the Philippines
is substantial. However, present conditions are not conducive to significant
financing of this investment under the project. A number of Government agen-
cies including the National Irrigation Authority, the Farm Systems Development
Corporation, and the Public Works Department have separate small-scale irri-
gation financing programs on terms more lenient than can be offered by commer-
cial credit institutions. Furthermore, legislation with respect to water
rights is inadequate to encourage a large number of borrowers into irrigation
investment, and groundwater resources have not been surveyed in sufficient
detail to permit sound judgements on water availability for intensive exploit-
ation. Despite these constraints, there is a small regular demand on rural
banks to finance irrigation pumps and the project would finance about 400 units
under conditions of reasonable certainty as to water availability and rights.



ANNEX 8
Page 12
Trucks
27.       Despite an apparent overall need for additional commercial transport
vehicles in the Philippines, the financing of heavy trucks under this project
is not recommended. The mission found that prospective purchasers of the
heavy trucks were in a relatively good position to acquire and expand their
fleets from current earnings or to avail themselves of other sources of
finance including dealer financing. Large trucks are principally used for
commercial hauling sugarcane to mills. In sugarcane growing areas, very long
lines of loaded trucks were observed waiting their turns to be unloaded at
sugar centrals, indicating primarily a need for greater efficiency and capacity
in mills rather than additional trucking capacity.
28.       Light trucks (1/2 - 1-1/2 tons) in the rural areas of the Philippines
have evolved into an essential and efficient link in transport services for
small farmers. Carrying mixed loads of passengers and small-lot cargo, these
units are purchased and operated by small entrepreneurs, and are the most widely
used means of hauling improved inputs for cultivation and marketing products by
small farmers whose requirements and output typically do not justify the use
of large or specialized cargo trucks. It is customary for the cultivator
or a member of his family to take one or two sacks of produce to the market
town, dispose of the produce, purchase consumer items and production inputs,
and return the same day. Outside Greater Manila, there is a need to expand
the fleet of vehicles serving this function. In addition, the project would
include the financing of light trucks for small business such as fishponds
and small rice mills which have a regular need for transport facilities.
There are at least few brands of light trucks assembled in the Philippines
with imported chassis and engines. The proposed project would include the
financing of 400 units of light trucks (with a gross vehicle weight of less
than 2,500 kg) with the restriction that none be financed in the Greater Manila
area and the understanding that sub-loan applications would be screened to
verify the likely use of each unit at least in part for haulage of small far-
mer inputs and produces or the agriculture-related production of the borrower's
business.
Rice Threshers
29.       Traditional manual threshing methods in the Philippines are in-
efficient in labor utilization and also result in excessive grain losses.
The National Grains Authority estimates that losses due to threshing opera-
tions represent as much as 8% of the annual crop harvested. Ramos, 1/ as
reported in the CB's Fourth Project proposal, found that small portable
threshers incurred losses of 4.42% while those of the McCormick-type were
4.12%, resulting in savings of about 3.6% and 3.9%, respectively, over the
estimated losses in manual threshing.
1/   Ramos, B. M. 1975.  Utilization and Local Production of Paddy Rice
Threshers in the Philippines, IRRI, Los Banos.



ANNEX 8
Page 13
30.       There is, frequently, a labor shortage during harvest time, par-
ticularly in intensive cropping patterns under irrigation, when threshing
of the first crop coincides with land preparation and planting for the second
crop. A survey of post-production practices among 211 rice farmers in central
Luzon conducted by Toguero and Duff 1/ found 120 farmers or 57% of those
included in the survey reporting problems during threshing operations, includ-
ing: unavailability of mechanical threshers when needed by farmers; unfavor-
able weather; objection to the time consuming and laborious task of manual
threshing; the necessity of the owner's presence to insure the security
of the paddy; and delay of threshing due to the lack of man or animal labor
when required.
31.       A cash flow projection model for a three hectare rice farm using a
portable thresher with a capacity of 25 cavans per hour is contained in
Table 8. It is estimated in this model that 60 days could be-devoted annu-
ally to rice threshing. The prevailing rate for custom threshing in the
Philippine is 5% of the daily output. The break-even point was found to
occur at 53 hrs annual usage, equivalent to the threshing of palay from 15 ha.
A potential of 240 hours of threshing time is available in the 60-day thresh-
ing period giving rise to a significant profit potential from custom thresh-
ing operations. The proposed project would include funds for 600 portable
threshers. It is likely that some of these will be purchased by farmers'
groups and cooperatives.
32.       In respect to McCormick-type threshers, the appraisal mission
concluded that the use of this type of machine was not compatible with small-
scale farming in the Philippines. Investment cost, capacity, and the need
for four-wheel tractor power are constraints which limit these units to larger
operations. We do not, therefore, recommend their inclusion in the proposed
project.
Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project
33.       With the rapid expansion of farm mechanization in recent years there
has been a proliferation of local manufacturing firms and importers. A buyer
today are faced with a number of alternative brands for any type of equipment,
and several different systems of operations, for example rotovating vs. plow-
ing, vie for his purchase with competing and sometimes conflicting claims.
After purchase, he is faced with the need for parts and service and is very
dependent on the quality of manufacturer, which, particularly in the case of
new local firms, he is not in a position to assess through reputation. The
proposed project would include, therefore, an Agricultural Machinery Testing,
Evaluation and Standardization Project (AMTESP), to set quality standards for
agricultural machinery and to conduct performance testing against such standards.
1/   Toguero, Z.F. and B. Duff, Survey of Post-production Practices Among
Farmers in Central Luzon, a paper presented to Saturday Seminar, IRRI
Agricultural Engineering, September 1974.



ANNEX 8
Page 14
34.       Objectives and Activities.  (AMTESP) would have the following
principal objectives and activities.
(i) Develop quality and performance standards for Philippine
farming conditions and types of equipment used in the
Philippines;
(ii)  Conduct field, shop and laboratory testing of equipment
picked at random to determine capacity under selected
conditions and conformity with standards set for such
equipment; and
(iii) Evaluate parts and service support of brands and models
tested.
Priority in the first several years' operations would be given to the follow-
ing:
(i) Establishment of performance and quality standards for
major types of equipment;
(ii) Assessment of power requirements for primary farming
tasks such as land preparation based on typical field
conditions and implements;
(iii)  Testing and evaluation of locally manufactured power
tillers; and
(iv) Evaluation of parts and service support for four-wheel
tractors and power-tillers (for which the Project would
probably draw on field staff of Government agencies to
assist with field surveys).
35.       Organization and Management.  AMTESP would be operated as a separate
activity of the Department of Agricultural Engineering, the University of the
Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB) and would be governed by a Board of Trustees or
Advisory Council consisting of representatives of UPLB, Department of Agricul-
ture, International Rice Research Institute, Agricultural Machinery Dealers
Association, and the Government financial institutions engaged in the financing
of farm machinery. The Project to be located at UPLB would be managed and
operated by UPLB under budget and policy decisions set by the Board (Council)
and using full and part-time staff appointed by the University's Department of
Agricultural Engineering. Funds for the Project would be channelled through
the Department of Agriculture budget wherein counterpart funds would also be
placed. Quarterly payments would be made by the Department against the Pro-
ject's approved budget, adjusted for shortfalls in actual expenditure.



ANNEX 8
Page 15
36.       Staff.  The Project would be headed by a Project Director appointed
on a part-time basis from the Power and Machinery Section of UPLB's Department
of Agricultural Engineering. Full-time staff would consist of test engineers
(two in 1977 to four in 1979), researchers (two in 1977 to four in 1979),
clerk/typists (two), technicians (three in 1977 to six in 1979), and a driver.
37.       Facilities.  While the Project would benefit from its affiliation
with and proximity to the Department of Agricultural Engineering, it would
be essential for it to have its o   minimum facilities.  A shop/laboratory/
office/storage building of 1,000 M would be constructed on the UPLB campus
to house the Project. Adjacent thereto, a block of 20 ha of irrigated and
drained land has been made available to the Project at no cost. Testing
in upland, rainfed conditions would be undertaken on University lands several
kilometers from the Project.
38.       Costs.  A total capital cost of P 2,062,500 would be required for
the Project. In addition, operating costs of P 343,500 in the first year
rising to P 525,000 in the third year would be included in project costs. A
summary of cost estimates appears as Table 9. While details have not been
finalized, it is planned that financial support from industry members and
associations would meet part of ongoing costs at the Project. Agreement was
reached with the Department of Agriculture to ensure the continuation of the
Project after the period of the proposed Bank project.



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Third Rural Credit Project - Mechanization Component
Proposal and Commitment Comparison
Proposed Total Project Estimate Including                  Realized - Based on CB Summary of Loan Release
Contingencies  =  P297,200,000.00                      under the 3rd CB:IBRD Program May 15, 1974 to
April 30, 1976 Total Proj. Cost = P342,696,000.00
Percent of                                                Percent of
Percent  of    Total Cost                                 Percent of      Total Cost
Total Cost   Mechanization       Project                  Total Cost   Mechanization        Project
Item Description      Number    ('000)           Component       Estimate       Number       ('000)        Component       Estimate
1. Tractors
1.1 80 hp)           1,800    152,369           71.70            51.26        1,761      218,409           72.42           63.73
1.2 68 lip)
2. Power Tillers
2.1 Localre          1,000       6,579           3.10             2.21        1,169       28,686            9.51            8.37
3. Tractor Implements        250       2,574          1.21              0.87          -           -               -                -
4. Irrigation Pumps          300       5,100          2.40              1.72          218        3,269           1.08             0.96
5. Trucks
5.1 Hy (New)           250      30,800          14.50            10.36          550       48,256           16.00           14.03
5.2 Hy (Recond)         200     12,900           6.07             4.34            16        1,378           0.45            0.40
5.3 Light                -        -               -                -              -           -              -                -
6. Threshers
6.1 McCormick            -         -              -                -              -           -              -
6.2 Portable            125      1,875           0.88             0.63            59        1,621           0.54              .48
7. Grain Dryers               50         300          0.14              0.10           -           --
3,725    212,497         100.00            71.49        3,773      301,614          100.(0            87.97
aXM



ANNEX 8
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Mechanization and Transport
Sales and CB:IBRD Financing of Tractors
4 Wheel Tractors                          Power Tillers
CB:IBRD                                   CB:IBRE
Total               CB:IBRD       Share      Total              CB:IBRD    Share
Sales   Increase   Financed    of Sales    Sales   Increase  Financed  of Sale
Year          (Units)    (%)        (Units)       (M)      (Units)    (%)        (Units)    (%)
-------------------------------------ACTUAL----------------------------------
1970             974       -           150         15.4       475       -          42        8.8
1971           1,083       11.2        251         23.2       680       43.2      103       15.2
1972           1,120        3.4        472         42.1     1,239       82.2      330       26.6
1973          1,517        35.5        520         34.3     3,500      182.5      289        8.3
1974          1,666         9.8        705        42.3      7,000      100.0      425        6.1
1975          2,176        30.6     1,200         57.0    11,000        57.1    1,000        9.1
-------------------------------ESTIMATES-----------------
1976          2,332         7.2          0          0.0    12,000        9.1         0         0
1977          2,605        11.7        600        23.0    13,000         8.3    2,235       17.2
1978          2,878        10.5        600         20.9    14,000        7.7    2,235       16.0
1979          3,152         9.5        600        19.0    15,000         7.1    2,235       14.9
1980          3,485        10.6          0          0.0    16,000        6.7    2,235       14.0



ANNEX 8
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Mechanization and Transport
Four-Wheel Tractor Sales by Class
Total          Light          Medium-LiRht      Heavy           Heavy
Year        Sales    Less than 50 HP        50- 66 HP     67-80 HP      Over 80 HP
(M)               (M)            (%)           (%)
1967       1,531           19.6              24.4           45.2            10.8
1968       1,575           12.6              24.9           54.7             7.8
1969       1,353            9.3              20.0           57.5           13.2
1970          974           8.1              20.6           61.7            9.6
1971       1,083          11.8               17.7           64.3            6.8
1972       1,120          12.6               15.5           66.7            5.2
1973       1,517            8.6              11.1           69.9           10.4
1974       1,666            9.4              12.7           71.2            6.7
1975       2,176            5.9               8.0           76.1           10.0



ANNEX 8
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Labor Inputs Per Hectare for Rice Farming
Users of Tractors vs Non-Users a/
(In Man/Days)
Tractor Non-Users              Tractor Users b/
With 150%                     With 172.5%
Cropping                      Cropping
Per Crop       Intensity      Per Crop       Intensity
Total  Hired  Total  Hired  Total  Hired  Total  Hired
Land Preparation                 13.5    2.3   20.3    3.4    6.6    2.1   11.4    3.6
Pulling & Transplanting          13.6   13.5   20.4   20.2   18.4   18.4   31.7   31.7
Weeding                           9.4    2.0   14.1    3.0    8.0    6.4   13.8   11.0
Other Pre-Harvest                 9.1    3.5   13.7    5.2    6.1    4.5   10.5    7.8
Harvesting & Threshing           20.6   17.1   30.9   25.6   24.0   24.0   41.4   41.4
Total Labor Input                66.2   38.4   99.4   57.5   63.1   55.5  108.8   95.5
Yield (mt/ha)                        2.5            3.8             2.8            4.8
Number of Farms                      39                            37
Average Area                         2.4                            2.7
a/ Based on Central Luzon-Laguna Survey data for 1970 wet season.
b/ Most tractor users still use the carabao for at least some of the harrowing.
Source: Adapted from Guino and Meyers. The Effect of The New Rice Technology on
Farm Employment and Mechanization, IRRI, Los Banos, December 4, 1971.



ANNEX 8
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
IURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow Pro3ections for a Heavy (Qreater Than 68  HP) 4-Wheel Tractor
1/
Illustrative Sugar C;ne Farm
(in PesosJ
'With Project
Without Project                                     Years
=______                2-7                8-10
I. Cash Inflow
2/
Qross Income:  Sugar Sales         3/         189,000               189,000               189,000             189,000
Hauling Allowance               9,000                 9,000                9,000               9,000
Custom Service_v                                     70,200               70,200              70,200
Qross Income Total          5T          (1) 198,000               26h,000              26L,o00             261i,000
Sash from Previous period -                                        17,600
loan:  90% of investment cost                                     158, 00
Total Inflow                    (2) 198,000               44o,ooo               264,000             26Lj,000
II.  Cash Outflow                                      -
Operating Cost    6/
Land preparation                              1,o8O                    876                  876                 o76
Cane points 7/                                  400                    400               1,202                1,202
Hauling points 8/                               175                    175                  525                 525
Cutting points 71                               250                    250                  750                 750
PlantinglO/                                     675                    675                2,025               2,025
CroD Care I1/                                 3,600                 3,600                 3,600               3,600
Harvest 12 T                                  9,600                 9,600                 9,600               9,600
Hauling 17/                                  36,0oo                26,000               36,ooo               36,000
Milling TI'                                  66,465                66,L65               66,465              66,165
Fertilizer 15/                               28,552                28,552               28,552               28,552
Fuel 16/   -                                                       11,672               11,672-             11,672
Lubricants 17/                                                      2,335                 2,335               2,335
Repairs 18/-                                                        8,507                 8,507               8,507
Operators wages 19/                                                 2,900                 2,900               2,900
Taxes, insurance and implement
shed 20/                                                          3,520                3,520                3,520
Total Operating Cost              (3) 1L7,552                176,L51              176,651             176,451
Investment Cost                   (4)                        176,000                 -
Debt Service 21/                                              36,938               36,938
3ervice Fee 227                                                4,752                2,785
Total Outflow                       (5) 147,552                394,141              216,174             176,5L1
III.  Net Cash Flow ((2)-(5)                     (6)  50,hh8                45,859               47,826              87,h59
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Incremental Qross Income                  (7)                        66,000                66,ooo              66,000
Incremental Cost                          (8)                       20L,899                28,899              28,899
Net Benefit (7)-(8)                                                 (138,899)              37,101              37,101
V. Financial Rate of Return:          16.6%
1/ The model is for a i5 ha sugar cane farm.  Mechanization consists of a medium power class (greater than 68 HP   imported
L-wheel tractor which is matched with a disk plow and trailing disk barrow. The cost of the tractor and implement
set is P176,000. The tractor and implements are assumed to have a 10-year life. Mechanization is used for land
preparation only on a 3-year rotation such that 5 hectares will be prepared annually.  (Additioral benefits accruing from
the project as a result of weeding and other farm operations have not been included in the model.)
2/ Sugar cane production is at the average rate of 80 tons of cane per hectare recognizing a variation between the planted
and ratoon crops.  Sugar yield is 1.5 piculs per ton of cane.  Etport and reserve sugar is 70 percent of production at
P125 per picul. Domestic sugar is 30 percent of production at P60 per picul.
Income from Sugar Sales from 15 ha.
Composite price per picul - (0.70 x 125) + (0.30 x 60) - 105.5
Income * 80 Tons Cane x 1.5 x 15 ha x 105.5 -189,000
3/ Hauling allowance paid by sugar central to the farmer, average P7.5 per ton of canes.  Income   80 x 15 ha x 7.5 - 9000
i/ Custom Service - The tractor is assumed to have an annual use of 1500 hours per year of which 80 percent is productive
usage.  The custom charge for land Dreparation is P200 per hectare for plowing, P100 per hectare for disking andP60 for
furrowing.  Time required for land preparation is reckoned at 6 hours per hectare.
Productive usage 1500 x .6 -             1200 hrs.
Annual time required on the owner's
15 ha farm (5 ha/yr)          5 x 6-   30 hrs.
Time available for custom service    '70hs.
Income from custom service
No. of ha 1170
-=- - [Y5 ha.
Income ' 195 x 360                . P70,200



ANNEX 8
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
(Footnotes continued)
5/ The beneficiary's 10 percent contribuztion to-the investment cost = 0.1 x 17,6000 =176o0
i1 -and preparation consists of one plowing (P200/ha), one harrowing (P100/ha) and one furrowing (P60/ha) on
one third of the far;:
Without project      5 x 360 - 1800
With proiect        Tractor and inplement operational cost to cover
5 ha (allow 50 hrs of tractor operation):
fuel = 50 x 7 x.1.15            - 402.5
oil & grease = 0.2 x 402.5      *  80.5
Repairs  50   x .05 x 176000   - 293-33
1 00
Operator's wages = 2 x 50         100.00
876.33
7/ Cane points require  45000 cane points per hectare at P1.78 per thousand, 5 ha seeded per year
Cost = '5 x 1.78 x 5 = 400.5
8/ Hauling cane points at P35/ha, for 5 ha = 5 x 35 = 175
9/ Cutting cane points at P50/ha, for 5 ha   5 x 50 = 250
10/ Planting at P135/ha, for 5 ha = 5 x 135 - 675
f/ Cron care:  Animal cultivation P100 per hectare and manual weeding P140 per hectare,
dost = 15 x 240 = 3600
12/ Cutting and loading cane at PB/ton,cost = 80 x 8 x 15 = 9600.
Ti/ Hauling - from the farn to the central at P30 per ton, cost = 80 x 30 x 15 = 36,000
M/ M'illing - The central retains 35 percent of the milled sugar, cost = 80 x 1.5 E 15 x 105.5 x 0.35 = 66,465
IT/ Fertilizer:  2 1/2 bags/ha 21-0-0 at P75 per bag
12 bags/ha    16-20-0 at P103 per bag
8 bags/ha      0-0-60 at P60 per bag
Cost =       2.5 x 75 x 15 -    2812.50
12 x 103 x 15=   185L0.00
6 x 60 x 15=       7200.00
2b552.50
16/ Fuel-consumotion of 7 liters per hour at F1.15 for 1450 hours, cost - 7 x 1450 x 1.15 = 11672.5
17/ Lubricants reckoned at 20 percent of fuel = 0.2 x 11672.5 = 2334.5
WT/ Repairs - reckoned at 5 percent of investment, cost    5   0.05 x    176000 -  8506.6
19/ Operator's wages: P2 per hour for 1450 hrs - 2900
70/ Taxes, insurance and imn]ement shed at 2 percent of investment cost = 0.02 x 176,000   3,520
2 / Debt Service: is an equal sum amortized over 7 years on the loan principal.
- 156,00 x 0.2331924=36,998
22/ Service Fee is 3 percent of the outstanding yearly balance.
Year   Principal    Interest (12%)       Amortization       Balance     Ser.Fee (3%)
1       14,762      22,176                36,938           158,400      4,752
2        16,829      20,109               36,938           143,638      4,309
3        19,185      17,753               36,938           126,809      3,804
4        21,871      15,067               36,938           107,624      3,229
5        24,933      12,005               36,938            85,753      2,573
6        28,423       8,515               36,938            3Z,397      1,825
7       32,402        4,536               36,938            32,397        972
158,405
Average Service Fee for years 2-7  16,712  _  2,785
6



ANNEX 8
Table 6
Page 1 of 2
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections Using a Medium (50-.68 HP) L-Wheel Tractor
1/
Illustrative Rice Farm (15 hectare area)
(In Pesos)
With Project
Without Project                   Years
I.  'ASH INFLCi                                                             1              2-7             6-10
2/
,ross Income:  Rice S.ies                          86,250            101,250       101,250          101,250
Custom Service 3/                                      36,315        36,315           36,315
Gross Income Total                        (1)  86,250           137,565       137,565          137,565
3ash from Previous Period UW                                     14,350
Loan:  90% of investment cost                                   129,150
Total Inflow                         (2)  86,250           281,065       137,565          137,565
II. CASH OUTF10W
Operating Cost:
Land preparation 5/                             6,750             1,260         1,260            1,260
Seedbed preparation 6/                          1,350             1,575         1,575            1,575
Pulling, hauling and transplanting 7/           4,140             4,830         L,830            4,830
HJeeding b/                                     1,800             2,100         2,100            2,100
Harvest and threshing 9/                       12,937            15,187        15,187           15,187
Drying and hauling LOF                            863             1,013         1,013            1,013
Seed 11/                                        1,575             1,837         1,837            1,837
Fertilizer 12/                                  9,000            10,500        10,500           10,500
InsecticidesL3/                                 1,500            5,250         5,250            5,250
Irrigation 147                                  2,625             3,187         3,187            3.187
Fuel 15/                                                          9,315         9,315            9,315
Oil and grease 16/                                                1,863         1,863            1,663
Repairs 17/                                                       6,457         6,h57            6,4157
OperatorTi wage  Lb/                                              2,700         2,700            2,700
Taxes, insurance and irplement shed 19/                           2,870         2,870            2,870
Total Operating Cost 20/            (3)  45,5L0             70,944        70o944          70,9144
Investment Cost                     (4)                    143,500
Debt Service 21/                                            30,117        3C0117
Service Fee 227                                              3,874         2,271
Total Outflow                  (5)  U5,5h0            21X8,505      103,332          70,9U4
III.  NET CASH FLOW (2)-(5)                          (6)  [40,710           32,560        34,233           66,621
IV. FINANCIAL BENEFIT/COST
Incremertal Gross Income                       (7)                    51,315        51,315           51,315
Incremental Cost                               (b)                   168,90h        25, W01,         25,101,
Net Benefit (7)-(b)                            (9)                  (117,589)       25,911           25,911
V. FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:    12.5%
1/ The model is for a 15 ha rice farm.  Mechanization consists of a light-medium power class (68 HP) imported 4-wheel
tractor equipped with paddy wheels and matched with a 60 inch rotovator, and trailing disk. The cost of the tractor and
imolement set is P143,500 and both tractor and imolement are assumed to have a 10-year life.
2/ Rice sales are computed for a yield of 75 and 80 cavans per hectare for wet and dry (irrigated) seasons respectively
on a 15 ha rice farm.  Cropping intensity without and with project      is 150 and 175 percent respectively.  The
farm gate selling price for rice is P50 per cavan.
Gross Income from Rice Sales without project
Wet Season, 15 ha x 75 cav. x P50                               - 56,250
Dry Season,  (15 ha x 1.5 c. into - 15 ha x 80 Cav. x P50       - 30 000
86:250
Gross Income from Rice Sales -with project
Wet Season, 15 ha x 75 cav. x P50                               56,250
Dry Season,  (15 ha x 1.75 c. int.) - 15 ha  x 80 cav. x P50-  U5 000
3/ The tractor is assumed to have an annual use of 1,500 hours, of which 70 percent is productive usage.  The custom
charge for land preparation is P200 oar hectare for rotovating and P1100 per hectare for harrowing or P300 per hectare
for complete preparation. Time required for land preparation is 5.7 hours per hectare.
Productive usuage is 1500 x 0.7            -  64D hours
Time required on 15 ha farm is 15x1.75x5.7- 150 hours
Time available for custom service            690 hours
Income from custom service is 6o      300 - 36,315
LW The beneficiary's 10 percent contrihution to the investment cost - 0.1 x 1"3,500 - 1L,350



ANNEX 8
Table 6
Page 2 of 2
(Footnotes continued)
5/ Lend preparation consists of one rotovation and one harrowing at P300 per ha.
Without project    * 15 x 1.5 x 300  - 6,750
With project        - Operating cost for tractor and implements for 150 hours.
Fuel         = 6 x 150 x 1.15    - 1,035
Oil & Grease- 0.2 x 1,035         -   207
Repairs          m    7,175           718    -
Operators wage   2 x 150          -   300
1,260.0
6/ Seedling nursery to seed 1 ha at P60.
Without project    - 15 x 1.5 x 60    a 1,350
With project        - 15 x1.75 x 60   - 1,575
7/ Pulling, hauling and transplanting at P1So per ha:. Without project    - 15 x 1.5 x 184   -  4,140
With project        - 15 x1.75 x 184   -  4,830
9/ Weeding at P80 per ha.
Without project    - 15 x 1.5 x 80    * 1,800
With project        - 15 xl.75 x bO    *  2,100
9/ Harvest and threshing at 15 percent of gross harvest
Without project    - 0.15 x 86,250    * 12,937
With project        - 0.15 x 101,250   - 15,187
I0/ Drying and hauling at Po.50 per cavan of gross harvest
Without project
Wet season - 1< x 75 x 0.50           563
Dry season = (15x1.5)-15 x8oxo.50- 300
With project
IWet season - 1  x 75 x .50           - 563
Dry season -  (15x1.75)-15 x8O x .50 - 450
1Q13
11/ Seeding rate is one cavan per ha at P70 per cavan.
Without project         15 x1.5 x70          - 1,575
With project          - 15 xl.75 x 70        - 1,837
12/ Fertilizer cost PI00 per ha.
Without project       - 15 x 1.5 x 400       -  9,000
With project          - 15 x 1.75 x 400      -10,500
13/ Insecticide cost                 - F200 per ha.
Without project       - 15 x 1.5 x 200           14,500
With project          - 15 x 1.75x 200          5,250
14/ Irrigation fee is 3 cavans for dry season and 2 cavans for wet season:
Fee without project
WIet season  15x 2 x P50               - 1,500
Dry season  (15 x 1.5)-15  x 3 x 50        , 125
With project
Wet season  - 15 x 2 x 50              =1,500
Dry season -  (15 x 1.75)-15  x 3 x 50-i 687
15/ Fuel consumption 6 liters per hour at P1.15 per liter for 1,500 hours - 6 x 1,350 x 1.15 * 9,315
IT/ Oil andi grease reckoned at 20 percent of fuel - 0.2 x 9,315 = 1,863.
17/ Repairs reckoned at 5 percent of investment cost -. 1350
18/ Operator's wage at P2.00 per hour - 1,350 x 2 - 2,7            03
71/ Taxes, insurance and implement shed is computed at 2 percent of investment cost - 0.02 x 143,500 = 2,870.
70/ The Barrio savings fund and the Barrio guarantee fund have not been included in operating cost in the model.
'E/ Debt Service is an equal sum amortised over 7 years on the loan principal - 129,150 x 0.2331924 - 30}117
27/ Service Feeis 3 percent of the outstanding ye____ balance.
- 77      Frinclpal       Interest T4          Amortisation       Balance          Ser. Fee (3'
1         12,036          18,081                 30,117         129,150            3,874
2         13,721          16,396                 30,117         117,114            3,513
3         15,642          14,475                 30,117         103,393             3,102
4         17,832          12,285                 30,117          87,751            2,633
5         20,328           9,789                 30,117          69,919            2,098
6         23,174            6,943                30,117          49,591             1,488
7         26,419            3,698                30,117          26,417               793
129,152
Average Service Fee Years 2-7 - 2,271



ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Mechanization and Transport
Cash Flow Projection for Power Tiller (Rice Production)-
(in Pesos)
Without Project                Year 1           Years 2-4            Year 5
Cash Inflow
Gross Income:  Rice Sales 2/            18,000                    21,000             21,000             21,000
Custom Work 3/            -                       2,228               2 228             2,228
Total Inflow                   18,000                    23,228              23,228            23,228
Cash from Previous Period 4/               -                         750                -                  -
Loan (90% of Investment)                   -                       6,750                -                  -
18,000                    30,728             23,228             23,228
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages: 5/
Land Preparation                     306         -
Planting                             650        759
Crop Care                            268        313
Harvest/Threshing 6/               3,000      3,501
Tractor Operator 7/                    -          303
Fertilizer 8/                        1,800      2,106
Insecticides 9/                         900     1,053
Seed 10/                                315       368
Fuel 11/                               -          896
Oil and Lubricants 12/                  -         179
Tractor Repairs & Maintenance 13/    -            900
Insurance & Taxes                      -          175
Draft Animal Maintenance 14/            100        -
Levies and Charges                      165       185
Miscellaneous 15/                       360       466
Total Operating Cost            7,864                    11,204              11,204            11,204
Investment 1/                          -                       7,500                 -                  -
Debt Service
Amortization                         -                       2,317               2,317
Service Charge 16/                                             135                  75               -
Total Outflow                   7,864                    21,156             13,596             11,204
Net Cash Flow                              10,136                     9,572               9,632            12,024
Incremental Gross Income                                              5,228              5,228              5,228
Incremental Cost                                                     10.840              3,340              3,340
Net Benefit                                                          (5,612)              1,888             1,888
Financial Rate of Return  -   8.2%
1/  Model based on 3 ha rice farm and custom hire services.  An 8-hp single axle local tiller with associated
implements constitute the investment in mechanization. Estimated cost is P7,500 and economic life is
assumed to be five years.
2/ Based on 150% cropping intensity before investment; 175% thereafter. Yield is assumed to be 80 cavans per ha,
and farmgate price, P50/cavan.
Footnotes/continued



ANNEX 8
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
3/  In an irrigated, multiple cropping area, it is assumed that a total of 100 days are available for land
preparation work, on the owner's land as well as custom hire, on all crops.  We have assumed 80% efficiency
during the 100 available days.   At six days per ha (1 plowing and 2 harrowings), 31.5 days would be
required for tillage of the own'ers 3 ha @ 1.75 intensity, leaving capacity to undertake 8.1 ha of
custom work. The current rate for complete land preparation is P275/ha.
4/ 10% equity contribution.
5/ 45% of total labor required assumed to be hired; seed bed preparation, drying and hauling assumed to be
entirely family labor.
6/ Based on one-sixth of crop.
7/ Operator's wages P12 per day; assume only 50% of custom work done by hired operator.
8/ P400 per ha per crop.
9/ P200 per ha per crop
I0/ Seeding rate of one cavan per ha @ P70/cavan.
11/ One liter per hour @ P1.4 and 576 hrs. (720 x. 8).
12/ 20% of fuel costs.
13/ 12% of investment per year, consisting of simple average of Year 1, 5%; Year 2, 10%; Year 3, 25%, Year 4,
10%, and Year 5, 10%.
14/ Maintenance of one carabao and shed.
15/ 2% of gross income.
16/ 2% of outstanding balance; averaged for Years 2 to 4.



ANNEX 8
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Mechanization and Transport
Cash Flow Projection for Portable Rice Thresher -
(in Pesos)
Year 1           Years 2-4         Years 6-10
Cash Inflow
Services 2/                             12,000             12,000              12,000
Cash from previous period -              1,500                -                   -
Loan (90% of investment)                13,500                -                   -
Total Inflow   <              27,000              12,000             12,000
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Labor 4/                            1,020               1,020               1,020
Fuel  5/                               336                336                 336
Oil & Lubricants 6/                     67                 67                  67
Maintenance & Repair 7/             1,500               1,500               1,500
Overhead 8/                            300                300                 300
Total Operating Costs          3,223               3,223              3,223
Investment 1/                           15,000                -                   -
Debt Service
Amortization                        4,633               4,633
Service fee 9/                         270                150                 _
Total Outflow                 23,126               8,006              3,223
Net Cash Flow                               3,874               3,994              8,777
Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit                                 12,000             12,000              12,000
Cost                                    18,223              3,223               3,223
Net Benefit                             (6,223)             8,777               8,777
Financial Rate of Return                   58%
1/  Portable thresher powered by 7 HP  engine with rated capacity of 25 cavans per
hour; cost, F15,000, economic life, 10 years.
2/  Gross time available estimated to be 60 days per year; assume 50% utilization
allowing for down time, relocation, etc. and 80% efficiency during operations,
i.e. 60 x .5 x .8 x 8 hrs. x 25 cavans per hour, or 4,800 cavans per year.
Service charge is 5% of value of throughput, assumed to be F50/cavan.
3/  Ten percent of investment.
4/  One feeder and 3 baggers, 30 days @ P8.50 each.
5/  Twenty percent of fuel costs.
7/  Ten percent of investment includes replacement rollers.
R/  Two percent of investment.
9/  Two percent of outstanding balance; averaged for years 2 to 4.



ANNEX 8
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Mechanization
Agricultural Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center
(US$'000)
Year 1       Year 2         Year 3
Capital Costs
Building  2/                                175.0
Equipment -
Crop Production Machinery Testing        35.0
Materials Testing                        15.0
Post Production Machinery Testing        20.0
Electrical Testing                       10.0
Office                                   20.0
Sub-Total              275.0
Operating Costs
Wages and Salaries                           17.2          26.7           35.9
Benefits 4/                                   2.6           4.0           5.4
Office Supplies                               5.3           5.3           5.3
Overhead and Maintenance                      8.8           8.8           8.8
Local Travel                                  1.3           1.5           1.6
Lab and Shop Supplies                         5.3          5.9            6.5
Sundry                                       5.3           5.9            6.5
Sub-Total               45.8          58.1           70.0
Total                  320.8          58.1           70.0
1/  1,000 M2 multipurpose building at P1,300/M2
2/ Detailed lists of individual prices of equipment are under preparation.
3/ Project Director (part-time) P18,000 per year.
Test Engineer  -  P18,000
Researcher      -  P12,000
Technician      -  P 9,600
Clerk-Typist   -  P 7,200
Driver          -  P 7,200
4/  15% of wages and salaries.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cottage and Agro-Industry Component
Summary
1.        Under this part of the project, sub-loans up to a total amount
of $4.7 million would be made by rural banks for about 225 sub-projects
to assist proponents expand existing projects or begin new ones. The cate-
gories of cottage and agro-industries eligible for financing under this part
of the project would be:
No. of           Unit Cost of        Total Cost
Category                       Sub-projects       Sub-projects       of Component
($ Thousand)       ($ Million)
Rice Mills                          30               25.7                .77
Farm Implement Manufacturing        30               35.5              1.06
Woodworking                         30               16.7                .50
Concrete Products                   25               33.3               .83
Handicrafts                         50               17.0                .85
Others /a                           60               20.0              1.20
Total                         225                                 5.21
/a   Include feedmills (very small capacity), coconut shell charcoal
manufacturing, food processing, textiles and garments.
However this loan would not be used to finance expansions or improvement of
projects already financed by other IBRD loans through CB, DBP or the
Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund.
2.        Sub-projects to be financed under this part of the project would
not exceed P 350,000 ($46,700 equivalent). A minimum size of P 10,000 ($1,340)
equivalent), including permanent working capital and cost of land, would also
be applied. About 50% of the 225 sub-projects would exceed P 200,000 ($26,700
equivalent) and the average size of sub-projects is expected to be about



ANNEX 9
Page 2
P 172,500 ($23,000 equivalent). Rural banks would be able to absorb this level
of industrial lending and these sizes of sub-projects. In 1975, 1.9% of the
total loan portfolio of rural banks was classified as industrial, and arrears
on the industrial loans of 260 surveyed rural banks amounted to about 16% of
the industrial portfolio by amount compared to arrears of 24% on the total loan
portfolio of rural banks. To prevent excessive concentration of risk in a few
large projects, individual loans by rural banks are limited by CB regulations
to 15% of net worth. Consortium financing can be done for the larger loans if
necessary and rural banks have reported favorably on their experience to date
with this type of corporation.
3.        To ensure effective sub-project implementation and help minimize
the risk to the rural banks from cottage and agro-industry sub-projects,
technical assistance would be available from a variety of sources. The co-
ordinator of promotion efforts and of technical assistance would be the local
CB Loan Teams. Files and a small library would be maintained by Loan Teams,
containing information on all types of technical assistance provided by
various Government and quasi-Government agencies as well as lists of local
and other consultants and experts. Loan Teams would be backed by a small
number of CB industrial technicians located in Manila, and would also work
very closely with the local Rural Bankers Federations in spotting problems
that member rural banks or their industrial clients face. Apart from the
local CB Loan Teams, the 50 Medium and Small Industry Coordinated Action
Program (MASICAP) teams, located throughout the country except the Metro-
politan Manila area, will make a substantial technical assistance contri-
bution to the project. 1/ For every sub-project of P 50,000 ($6,700 equiv-
alent) or more, a feasibility study would be conducted by a MASICAP team. The
team would also assist rural banks with promotional efforts and with project
identification, and, if the local MASICAP team has the appropriate skills,
provide technical assistance to sub-borrowers. A few of the larger rural
banks with sizeable industrial portfilio in a province may jointly employ
an industrial technician of their own. DRBSLA and the Department of Loans
and Credits of CB are studying the possibility of providing a salary subsidy
for a fixed period only to such rural banks. This would both strengthen the
rural bank's industrial lending capability and educate them on the need for
adequate project appraisal and follow-up.
4.        Lending terms for this part of the project would be identical to
the rest of the project with two exceptions: grace periods would be somewhat
longer, up to a maximum of 2 years on the fixed capital portion and up to
6 months on the working capital portion as justified on the basis of sub-
project cash flow and income projections; and because of the characteristical-
ly low capital intensity of cottage industries and their financial require-
ments, the working capital portion may account for the majority of the sub-
loan to a maximum of 80% as required.
1/   MASICAP is discussed in detail in its appraisal report of the Small and
Medium Industries Development Project (1120-PH).



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Rice Mills
5.        The project would include about 30 units of small (100 and 300 cavan/
day) cono rice mills. At present, there are about 10,200 "kiskisan" mills and
2,700 cono mills in the Philippines. The units in the project would replace
the traditional kiskisan mill, which has a recovery rate of about 60 percent
compared to about 65 percent for a cono mill. The units would also be sited
in provinces with a deficit milling capacity. Because of their small capacity
and the relatively low capital outlay required, they would be attractive to
small entrepreneurs and could be expected to be sited in outlying rural areas
not adequately served at present. The project would enable small entrepreneurs
lacking adequate capital to expand and modernize their operations. It would
also enable small grain traders to move into processing. The units would
complement other grain processing programs being carried out by the Govern-
ment which support rice mills of 1/2 ton capacity and above. The total cost of
this part of the project would be $0.8 million. The principal investment items
would be the rice mill, engine and building, and a light truck. The estimated
financial rates of return are 73 percent on a 100 cavan/day mill and over 100
percent on a 300 cavan/day mill.
Farm Implement Manufacturing
6.        About 30 farm implement manufacturing enterprises would be financed
under the project. At present, there are 92 such enterprises of which 18 manu-
facture exclusively farm implements designed by the International Rice Research
Institute (IRRI). The units financed would manufacture the simpler so called
Type I IIRI design implements (Annex 8, paras 5 and 7) as well as other de-
signs of implements. It is not proposed to finance the manufacture of the
more sophisticated "Type II" IRRI design implements, because it is expected
that very soon these will be mass produced by large-scale manufacturers. As
part of increased emphasis on quality control, the project would finance an
Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project (Annex
8, paras 33-38) which would develop standards for locally manufactured imple-
ments. Sales of locally manufactured tillers, threshers and dryers have grown
from less than 1,000 units in 1972 to an estimated 11,000 units in 1976. De-
mand is projected to grow at an average rate of 20 percent per year thereafter.
Implements locally manufactured enjoy a very substantial price advantage over
imported models, and in general, are simpler, smaller machines well adapted
to local conditions. Marketing and financing are the two principal problems
facing the industry, particularly the smaller manufacturers. Careful atten-
tion needs to be paid to the market area selected and then to promotion and
field demonstration tests. The project is expected to ease the difficulties
of finding suitable financing. The principal items of investment would be the
building and machinery and equipment. Each sub-project is estimated to cost
$35,500 for a total cost of $1.1 milion for this part of the project. The
estimated financial rate of return is 77 percent.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Woodworking
7.         The project would include 15 woodcraft and 15 furniture making
enterprises. There are about 5,700 registered units in the Philippines.
Woodcraft exports, which totalled about $7 million in 1971 grew to $30 mil-
lion in 1974, an average annual growth rate of about 65 percent. Although
exports in 1975 fell by 60 percent due to the recession, they are expected to
recover in line with the recovery of the world economy.   Exports of furniture
grew from $1 million in 1971 to almost $5 million in 1974 No reliable data
exist on the domestic market, but it absorbs a large part of the industries'
output for which the rapid expansion of the construction sector has provided
a strong cushion. Growth prospects for both woodcraft and furniture making
are considered good and exports are expected to recover and show substantial
growth between 1976 and 1980.
8.         The woodcraft industry faces problems of quality control and lack
of standardization. It also faces export marketing problems, which arise
partly from the first problem described and partly from a lack of organization
and establishment of effective marketing arrangements. To develop quality
control and standardization, the industry needs to acquire equipment and
tools more sophisticated than the hand tools in common use now. A similar
development is needed in the furniture industry which has considerable export
potential if it can standardize its products and fill large export orders.
The principal items of investments would be the building, equipment and tools,
and a light delivery truck. Each sub-project is estimated to cost $16,700 for
a total cost of $500,000 for this part of the project. The estimated financial
rates of return for woodcraft and furniture making respctively are 67 percent
and 71 percent.
Concrete Products
9.         Included in the project would be 25 concrete products enterprises.
There are 240 registered concrete product enterprises in the Philippines,
and a similar number of non-registered enterprises. Although reliable data
do not exist, their estimated production amounted to about 9 million pieces
of hollow and decorative block and 170,000 linear meters of concrete pipes,
and showed an average annual growth rate in production of about 35 percent
between 1972 and 1974. Demand will remain strong, stimulated by very active
public and private construction programs. No reliable data are available
on the value of production or employment, but the industry is highly labor
intensive, even when the more sophisticated hollow block machines are used.
10.        The principal problem faced by the industry is how to induce and
spread technical developments to produce consistently high quality products
as well as new product lines. The National Institute for Science and Tech-
nology is making a small but very valuable attempt to fill the technical
gaps. The principal items of investment would be the building, a recon-
ditioned truck, machinery and moulds. Each sub-project is estimated to
cost $33,000 for a total cost of $800,000 for this part of the project.
The estimated financial rate of return is 57 percent.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Handicrafts
11.       The project would include about 50 handicraft enterprises.  Cate-
gories to be included would be embroidery, needlecraft, fibercraft, shellcraft,
rattancraft and ceramics. Handicraft exports have enjoyed extraordinary
growth in recent years. In 1971 exports of the categories above totaled $5.7
million equivalent. In successive years, they nearly doubled to total $31.2
million in 1974. Exports for the first half of 1975 were running ahead of
1974. Principal markets are the United States, Japan, West Germany and
Australia. This growth in exports has sprung from increases in volume and
value as well as noticeable product and market diversification, the latter
particularly in the European Common Market countries and in Australia.
12.       The principal problems faced by the handicraft industry include,
some raw materials shortages (in particular fibers), quality control and
marketing, and financing. Production of fibers is expected to increase in
response to the strong demand of recent years. Synthetic fibers are also
being imported from Japan. Quality control is likely to remain a problem
for some time to come. The Design Center of the Philippines established in
1973 is doing some work in the area of standardized designs as is National
Cottage Industries Development Authority but both are hampered by lack of
funds and staff. Handicraft producers in Manila are organized into a fairly
effective association for purposes of quality control and export marketing,
and the establishment of regional and national industry associations with
cooperative or common marketing arrangements is probably the most effective
way to organize the industry properly. At present, only a very small number
of the largest producers export either directly or sell to an export whole-
saler in Manila. The principal form of financial assistance required is
working capital to finance sales and purchase of stocks of raw materials. A
number of firms in these industries are forced because of a lack of working
capital to operate on a peddler system whereby they manufacture for a period,
then sell for a period in order to obtain working capital to recommence manu-
facturing operations.
13.       The principal items of investments would be the building, machinery
and equipment and in many cases a small utility vehicle. Sub-project costs
are expected to range from $10,000 for a rattancraft sub-project to $27,000
for an embroidery sub-project. The estimated financial rates of return range
from 44% for shell-craft to over 100% for needlecraft, fibercraft, and rattan-
craft.   These high rates are primarily a result of the low fixed capital
investment in most cases. Actual rates will be very sensitive to changes in
costs or benefits.
Others
14.       In addition to the specific industries discussed previously, the
appraisal mission considered a number of other cottage and agro-industries
would provide sub-projects suitable for financing under this part of the



ANNEX 9
Page 6
project. These would include, but not limited to, small-scale feed mills,
coconut shell charcoal manufacturing, food processing, textiles and garments.
These were all industries which have promising potential but which the mission
was not able to examine in depth. Therefore, these and other sub-projects
would be appraised on a case-by-case basis and if found to be justified, finan-
cially and economically, they would then be eligible for financing under the
project. A total cost of $1.2 million equivalent would be considered for this
part of the project. It is not possible to estimate financial and economic
rates of return prior to financing but the Technical Support and Evaluation
Unit in DRBSLA would carry out post-appraisal evaluation to determine the
overall viability of sub-projects financed under this category.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cottage and Agro-Industry
Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analyses
Financial Rate of Return
At Best            At 10%
Estimates On        Investment
Investment Cost    Cost Overrun
Rice Mill (300 cavan capacity)                      Over 100              94
Rice Mill (100 cavan capacity)                         73                 57
Farm Implement Manufacturing                           77                 61
Wood Working
Woodcraft                                          67                 58
Furniture Making                                   71                 66
Concrete Products                                      57                 46
Handicrafts
Embroidery                                         76                 62
Needlecraft                                     Over 100           Over 100
Fibercraft                                     Over 100               92
Shellcraft                                         44                 41
Rattancraft                                     Over 100           Over 100
Ceramics                                           46                 40
Weighted Average                                       86                 75



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Fisheries Development
1.        Fish is the main source of animal protein for the majority of
Filipinos. Rich in edible species, the territorial waters of the Philippines
cover 705,000 square miles, and the country has an additional area of some
230,000 ha of freshwater lakes and rivers.
2.        The  coastal and inshore seas have been heavily exploited by small
fishing vessels for commercial and subsistence fishing, but as yet there has
only been limited harvesting of fish from the deeper offshore waters. In
addition, according to the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR),
large parts of the coastlines of the more than 7,000 islands have shallow-
water sheltered bays lined with brackish and salt water swamps, often man-
grove covered, suitable for the development of fishpondse However, partially
or fully developed fishponds at present only occupy about 33% of the available
area.
Existing and Potential Fishpond Area (1974) /
Developed Fishponds          Additional Areas Suitable for Development
Privately Owned            85,000 ha        Freshwater               41,000 ha
Leased from Government   91,000 ha          Coastal                 310,000 ha
Total          176,000 ha                  Total         351,000 ha
/1   From:  1974 Fisheries Statistics of the Philippines. Fishery Economics
and Information Division, Bureau of Fisheries and Aouatic Resources.
Manila.
3.        More recent evaluations indicate that the potential for the develop-
ment of fishponds in coastal areas, is much less than 310,000 ha cited
in the above table. Many of the mangrove swamps suggested as being suitable
would be very expensive to develop because they are in areas where the tidal
range would be unsuitable for complete filling and draining of the ponds.
Pond draining and drying are important in the production of food algae for
fish. There are no reliable estimates of the true extent of land suitable
for fishpond development, but it appears that some further 80,000 ha (26% of
the BFAR projected 310,000 ha) might be suitable. The IBRD Second Fisheries
Project (1270-PH) will finance the development of about 2,700 ha of this area
through DBP.
4.        A recent development has been the establishment of fishpens in some
of the inland lakes. Comparatively shallow and shelted water is required for



ANNEX 10
Page 2
fishpens, and only three localities are suitable of which Laguna de Bay in
Luzon offers the greatest potential.
5.        The production of fish has not been sufficient to meet home require-
ments although the deficit has been decreasing.
Production Deficit
Total          Annual            Annual Fish           Based on per
Year   Production       Increase          Requirement         Capita Requirement /a
(Metric Tons)       (%)            (Metric Tons)                (%)
1970      989,000         5.1              1,339,000                   26
1971    1,023,000         3.5              1,386,000                   26
1972    1,122,000         9.7              1,435,000                   22
1973    1,205,000         7.3              1,491,000                   19
1974    1,268,000         5.0              1,318,000                    4
/a   Based on estimates by the Food and Nutrition Research Centel- -s given as
36.5 kg in 1968 and 31.8 kg in 1974.
6.        Fish caught in coastal waters by small boats of three tons gross
weight and less, together with that from subsistence fishing without boats,
accounts for somewhat more than half of the total production. The remainder
comes from the activities of fishing vessels exceeding three tons gross weight
and from fishponds. While no statistics are available, production from
fishpens is probably less than 0.5% of total.
FISHERIES PRODUCTION BY TYPE OF OPERATION
(Metric Tons)
Municipal Fisheries
Commercial Fisheries               By small boats (less than 3
By vessels greater                tons gross) and subsistence
Year    than 3 tons gross    Fishponds         fishing without boats      Total
1970        382,000              96,000              511,000              989,000
1971        382,000              98,000              543,000            1,023,000
1972        425,000              98,000              599,000            1,122,000
1973        465,000            100,000               640,000            1,205,000
1974        471,000            113,000               684,000            1,268,000



ANNEX 10
Page 3
7.        During the period 1970-74, considerable quantities of fish were im-
ported into the Philippines and small quantities of fish and fish products
were exported.
Exports and Imports of Fish (1970-74)
(Metric Tons)
Year                Exports              Imports
1970                 3,400               63,000
1971                 7,300               69,000
1972                11,000               64,000
1973                18,000               41,000
1974                23,000               56,000
8.        Using the 1973 consumption of 1.3 million tons as the base, the
demand for fish is expected to increase by at least 6% per year. The sustain-
able yields from the municipal fisheries and the commercial fisheries are es-
timated to be at least 1.7 million tons (municipal fisheries 700,000 tons;
commercial fisheries I million tons) 1/ compared to 1974 production of 1.2
million tons. Production from fishponds and fishpens is additional to the
1.7 million tons. Thus the resource base is not a constraint on meeting
expanded programs of production; the inshore seas used for municipal fisheries
though would play little part in any increase.
9.        The volume of fisheries development financing was small under the
First, Second and Third Rural Credit Projects. There are no specific records
of the amount actually loaned under the First Project; only P 9 million and
P 13 million under the Second and Third Projects, respectively, went to
fisheries development; this was 6% of total loan funds disbursed during the
Second Project, 5% during the Third Project.
10.       The mission found that rural banks in coastal areas began to receive
large numbers of requests for sub-loans after project funds under the Third
Project had been fully committed. In view of the great potential, the market
demand and the need for financing, P 100 million would be allocated for this
purpose under the proposed project.
11.       The performance and standards for fisheries investment promotion,
project appraisal and supervision by BFAR and CB must be improved to effect-
ively absorb these funds. The lack of an adequate number of suitably trained
fisheries technicians stationed outside of Manila in direct contact with
producers has been a constraint on funding under the previous Rural Credit
Projects. Recognizing the need to improve the quality and effectiveness of
its extension service, BFAR has planned in-service training programs. The
1/   IBRD.  Philippines:  Appraisal of the Second Fisheries Project, May 1976.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Bureau also plans to assign some additional technical staff to its field
operations. 1/
Fishing Boats
12.       For the greater part it appears that inshore marine waters are
presently being well exploited by small fishing vessels of less than 3 tons
gross weight including, as of 1970, 271,000 bancas, some 20% of which were
motorized. However, to date there has been little exploitation of the deeper
off-shore waters. The potential of non-traditional fishing grounds such as
the southern part of the Sulu Sea, the northern side of the Celebes Sea, the
South China Sea off Luzon and the Pacific Ocean off Bicol and Samar is stressed
by BFAR. 2/ Present official Government policy appropriately stresses the need
for bigger numbers of larger, better-equipped vessels to exploit these deeper
waters.
13.       Fishing vessels in the size range 3 to less than 10 tons gross
weight have become less popular in recent years. Their activities are con-
fined to the heavily exploited in-shore waters where they compete with motor-
ized bancas which have lower capital and operating costs. The following table
also shows that the average yearly catch from vessels of 100 tons gross weight
and over has not been significantly greater than from vessels in the 50 to 100
ton class in spite of the higher capital and operating costs of the large
vessels.
Numbers of Commercial FishinA Vessels and Production by Tonnage Class (1970-1974)
Average
Fish          Catch (tons)
Class by                                                   Production         by Vessel
Tonnage       1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    (tons) in 1974           in 1974
3 to   5        No      No      261      266     205           6,630              32
record record
5 to  10       666     664      358      426      450         26,000              58
10 to  20       478     443      466      529      480        57,000              119
20 to  50       426      422     444      534      468        106,000             226
50 to 100       478     440      458      495      427        164,000             382
100 to 200       192     211      195      203      195         78,000             400
200 to 500        44       No      40       51       61         25,000             410
record
1/   Expanded Fish Productior  Program, 1975-76 (Operational Plan).  BFAR,
Manila.
2/   Source:  Philippine Fisheries in the 1970's.  BFAR, Manila, November 1974.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
14.       in view of the above considerations the most suitable vessels
capable of exploiting the deeper waters would appear to be in the range of
10 to 100 tons. 1/ However, because the Fourth Rural Credit Project is
aimed at helping smaller operators, sub-loans would be restricted to vessels
of up to 40 tons. Furthermore, priority would be given to financing vessels
that would operate in off-shore waters with greatest potential as designated
by BFAR and where there is adequate infrastructural support, including port,
fish storage and marketing facilities. Some indications of BFAR priorities
for additional numbers of vessels by region are set out in the publication
"Expanded Fish Production Program (Operational Plan)", BFAR, Manila.
15.       Tables 1 and 2 present a model for a wooden hulled vessel of 40 tons
gross weight, fully equipped. Wooden hulls of the type required are con-
structed often on a custom basis in make-shift backyard sites in the
Philippines. Forty-five such vessels would be constructed under the project
at a unit cost of about P 298,000.
Fishponds
16.       The total area of fishponds in the Philippines increased by only
4.7% during the period 1970-1974 while production of fish from ponds increased
by almost 18%. In spite of this improvement in the efficiency of operation
the mission found that there was a great need for technical assistance to on-
going operations. Many fishpond operators only received assistance at the
time of project appraisal. In many cases, simple procedural changes and minor
innovations would significantly increase production. For example, it was
often observed that the water in the ponds was badly stained by organic
matter, a condition caused by low PH that could be corrected by liming. Pro-
duction of algal fish foods is inhibited by the dark color of the water which
restricts entry of light and therefore photosynthesis. Furthermore, the fish-
pond industry has not been given sufficient priority in the distribution of
chemical fertilizers needed to promote algal growth.
17.       Information on the sizes of fishponds was available only for central
Luzon (below). About 69% of the ponds are 5 ha or less in extent and the
average size of this group is only about 1.2 ha.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
Fishpond Areas, Central Luzon
5 Ha and Below            5.1 to 10 Ha           More Than 10 Ha
No. of
Area     Operators        Area    Operators       Area    Operators
Pampanga       1,110          912        1,206        136        6,894        269
Pangasinan    1,147           942        1,246        141        7,107        277
Bulacan        1,954        1,606        2,124        241       12,122        473
Bataan           374          308          407         46        2,319         91
Zambales         241          199          262         30        1,497         58
Aurora Sub-
Province        12           10           13          2           75          3
Totals   4,838         3,976        5,258        596       30,004      1,171
18.       A model for a new 5 ha fishpond in mangrove swamp is piesented in
Tables 3 and 4.  The total investment cost for such a sub-proje   is P 68,630
million.  Eighty million pesos would be allocated to fishpond de   opment which
would allow the funding of about 1,165 sub-projects with a total area of 5,800
ha. The financial rate of return is 37.7%.
19.       There are economies of scale in fishpond operations but these
would be foregone to some extent in form of suggesting smaller units. For
example, the investment cost per ha decreases from P 13,700 in a 5 ha project
to P 11,000 in a 10 ha unit, and the estimated financial rate of return in-
creases from about 38% to about 48%. However, in an effort to direct project
proceeds to small new enterprises, emphasis would be placed on the smaller
units.
Fishpens
20.       A comparative recent development is the raising of milkfish in fish-
pens. Each pen has a double outer (perimeter) wall consisting of nylon net
attached to bamboo poles, anchored to the bottom, and built in relatively
shallow water (1.5 to 3 M deep). The main advantage over fishponds is that
fish grow on nutrients available in the water, so that operating costs are
minimal. Higher yields are also possible per unit area. However, a major
disadvantage is that the pens are more vulnerable to storm damage; many in
Laguna de Bay were extensively damaged by typhoon Didang in May, 1976, re-
leasing much of the nilkfish population. Research is needed into improving
the design of the pens. Under conditions of eutrophication, too, algal blooms
may occur resulting in fish losses through reduced oxygen content of the
water. Information supplied by BFAR shows that 87% of the operators have
pens of 10 ha or less in extent, the average size being 3.3 ha. A model for
a 5 ha fishpen, with a total investment cost of P 126,770 appears in Tables 5
and 6. In view of the geographic concentration of suitable areas, the recent
development of this practice, the higher risk due to storm, and the need for
design research   before major expansion can take place, only P 6.5 million
would be included under the project for fishpens.  This would provide funds
for about 50 5-ha enterprises.



MN=EX 10
Table 1
PH{IIaPPjizS
FOURTH RURAL CRaI1T PLRO)JKT
Inve-stient Cost L
(Pesos)
Number      Unit             pecif1cation                       Net Caah Price
1        Unit      WoAoden Hull     g     2/                     P100,000
1        Unit      Marine Diesel &gine 96-102 H.P.3
standard specification for multi-
purpose fishing with complete
instrument panele                               98,000
6         Sets     Fishing nets of monofilament,
Kuralon nylon twines for pelagic
and demnersal fishing                           50,O00
1        Set       Accessories 31                                  50000
Total                F298,000
1/  Initial capital investzrment required for the p-urch az  of one ( I ompieL
set of multi-purpose fishing outfitG  A possible cc rb`zi natiLon of trawl,E
purse seine and bagnet.
2/  Wlooden vessel (hull), 4)0 tons gross, diLt-h or withoc:. cut riggero
3/  Accessori es consisting of fuel  arks , propeller, S .r tube. tail shaft
stuffing box, sea. cocks, winches, generators, elect-riCal materials,
charts, barometers, etc.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Fisheries Component
Cash Flow Projection for 40-Ton Multipurpose Fishing Boat -
(Pesos)
Year 1         Year 2-9        Year 10
Cash Inflow
Gross Sales  /3/                          243,000        243,000          243,000
Cash from Previous Period -                29,800           -                -
Loan (90%)                                268 200            -               -
Total Inflow                541,000        243,000          243,000
Cash Outflow
Operating Cost
Fuel             4/                     63,600         63,600           63,600
Engine overhaul -        5/                -            3,000            3,000
Maintenance and repair -                 6,300         12,600           12,600
Crew salaries                           30,360         30,360           30,360
Ice                                     15,000         15,000          15,000
Food      6/                             6,000          6,000           6,000
Insurance -                7/           11,886          6,534           1,188
Registration and license -                 650            650              650
Contingencies  8/                        6,378          6,378            6,378
Total Operating Cost        140,174        144,122          138,776
Investment                                298,000           -            (298,000)
Debt Service
Amortization                            51,418         51,418           51,418
Service fee -                            8,046          5,448           1,35
Total Outflow               497,63B         200,988         191,547
Net Cash Flow                              43,362          42,012          51.453
Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit                                   243,000        243,000          243,000
Cost                                      438,174        144,122          138,776
Net Benefit                              (195,174)         98,878         104.224
Financial Rate of Return:   31.0%
1/ This vessel wood consist of the following components:
wooden hull (40 gross tons)                           F100,000
diesel engine (96-102 hp) and instruments               98,000
nylon nets and lines (six sets)                         50,000
accessories (tanks, propeller, winches,
generator, electricals, charts, etc.)                50,000
P298,000
2/ Estimated total catch of 90 tons at P3,000 per ton assorted fish.
3/ Borrower's 10% cash participation to the investment cost.
4/ Engine overhaul undertaken during the 2nd year and thereafter at 3,000 per annum.
5/ Estimated as follows:
emergency engine repair                      P150/month
repair of gears, boxes, etc.                 P500/month
repair of hull                               P400/month
(assumed 50% of these levels in Year 1)
6/ Calculated at 6% annual premium based on outstanding balance.
7/  Issued by the Bureau of Fisheries for commerical fishing boats of more than
3 tons gross.
8/ Five percent of the operating cost.
9/ Three percent of balance outstanding (Average used for Year 2-9).



ANNEX 10
Table 3
PHILIPPfIES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Five-Hectare Fishpond  /
Investment Cost 2
(Pesos)
9becification                                                          Cost
1. Cost of Development
Clearing of the fishpond site                                      5,000
Uprooting of stumps 4/                                             2,500
Levelling of the cleared pond bottom                               1,500
Construction of the main dike 6/                                   8,400
Construction of the secondary dike                                 1,800
Construction of the nursery dike 8                                   330
Construction of one (1) concrete gate                             15,000
Constructionof three(3) secondary wooden gate 9/                   6,000
Construction of three (3) tertiary wooden gates 10/                3,000
Simple caretaker's hut and storehouse
Sub-total                                          60,530
2. Additional Investments for Miscellaneous Ecuipment
One (1) wooden dugout ij                                             750
Fish corrals 12/                                                     400
Set gill net for marketable fish                                     950
Bangus fingerlings suspension net                                  1,000
One (1) inboard motor complete with accessories                    4,000
Digging blades (2), rakes (2), axes (5), bolos (5)                 1.000
Sub-total                                          8,1oO
Total Investment Cost                             1.630
1/ Development of five (5) ha swampland for fishpond proJect  nsw project).
/ Initial capital investment, needed to develop a five k5) ha fishpond.
3/ Total clearing of the area at F1,000.00 per ha.
/ Estimated 500 big and  sall stumps at P5.00/stump.
/ Levelling that include removal of mounds and excavation.
Computed at 7 cu. m./meter dike (5 m. base x 2 m. crown x 2 zi. high)
Computed at P4.00/cu. m. - 300 meters long.
/ Computed at 3 cu. m./ meter dike (3.0 m. base x 1 m. crown x 1.5 meter high)
Computed at f4.00/cu. m. - 150 meters long.
8/  Computed at .56 cu. m./meter  dike (1.5 m. base x 1 m. crown x 1.5 meter high)
at P4.00/cu. m. - 150 meters long.
9/ Secondary wooden gates will cost P2,000 each.
L/ Tertiary wooden gates, will amount to F1,000 each.
L/ Wooden dugout (15' - 20' x 3' x 1.5').
L2/ One (1) fish corral at P200 each.
EAP Projects Department
July 9, 1976



P}IILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Five Hectare Fishpond
Cash Flow Projection I/
(Pesos)
PROJECT YEAR
Category                                                I         2         3          4          5          6          7         8          9          10
Cash Inflow
Gross sales                                      20,000   31,000    35,000    55,000    55,000    55,000    55,000    55,000    55,000    55,000
Cash from previous period 2/                      6,863      -                          -           -         -          -                          -
Loan: 90/. of investment 3/         (1)          61,767                                  - _  _  _
Total Inflow            (2)          88,630   31,000    35,000    55,000    55,000    55,000    55,000    55,000    55,000    55,000
Cash Outflow
Operating cost
Salary of caretaker                            3,000    3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000     3,000      3,000
Annual rental                                     50        50        50         50         50         50         50         50         50         50
Milkfish and prawn fry                         3,900    6,090      7,050    14,700    14,700    14,700    14,700    14,700    14,700    14,700
Fertilizer                                       -        -        2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500     2,500      2,500
Chemical pesticides                              -        -          400        400        400        400        400        400       400        400
Supplementary feeds                           3,500    3,500       3,500      3,500      3,500      3,500      3,500     3,500      3,500      3,500
Share of caretaker                            1,000    1,550       1,750      2,750      2,750      2,750     2,750      2,750      2,750      2,750
Miscellaneous expiration                         845    1,119      1,525      2,     390      2,390      2      ,390  2,390    2,390           2,390
Total Operating Cost  (3)            13,295   15,309    19,775    29,290    29,290    29,290    29,290    29,290    29,296    29,290
Investment Cost                    (4)          68,630      -          -          -          _    -          -               -                -
Debt service
Amortization 4/                                -       13,986    13,986    13,986    13,986    13,986    13,986    13,986    13,986    13.986
Service charge 5/                             1 853    20o75       1,946      1799      1,632      1,440      1,2          974         91        368
Total Outflow          (5)          83,778   31,370    35,707    45,075    44,908    44,716    44,499    44,250    43,967    43,644
Net Cash Inflow                    (6)           4,852      (370)   (  707)    9,925       0 0092    10,284    10,501    10,750    11,033    11.356
Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit (1)                     (7)          20,000   31,000    35,000    55,000    55,000    55,000   55,000           55,000    55,000    55,000
Cost (3) + (4)                  (8)          81,925   15,309    19,775    29,290    29,290    29,290   29,290           29,290    29,290    29,290
Net Benefit (7) - (8)           (9)        (61,925)  15,691    15,225    25,710           710    25,710   25,710        25,710    25,710    25,710
Financial Rate of Return  - 31.0%
I/ An eotimated cost of P68,630.
2/  The beneficiary's 10/. participation from the total investment cost.
3/  CB:IBRD loan for 90/. of the investment cost.
4/ Interest for the grace period (year 1) is capitalized                                                                                                      4
5/  Service fee is 3% of the outstanding annual balance.                                                                                                     0
EAP Project Department
July 9, 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Fisheries Component
Investment Cost for 5-ha Fish Pen
(Pesos)
Cost
Bamboo Poles -/                                       18,000
Net  2/                                               52,500
Rope                                                   9,250
Twine                                                    750
Bamboo Pins                                              500
Motorized Boat                                         5,300
Small wooden Boat                                        750
Caretaker's Hlut and Storage                           3,500
Installation Labor                                   _36,220
Total                                   126,770
'/ 3,000 pieces for perimeter, partitions, batter poles, and etc.
2/ Four layers of 100 mesh net.   875 meters, @ P15/m.



ANNEX 10
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Fisheries Component
Cash Flow Projection for 5-ha Fish Pen
(Pesos)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 1/                    183,750    183,750    183,750    183,750
Cash from Previous Period 2/       12,677        -          -
Loan (90% of investment)          114,093        -           -          -
Total Inflow              310,520    183,750    183,750    183,750
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Salaries                           18,000     18,000      18,000      18,000
Fry 3/                             75,000      75,000     75,000      75,000
Feed                                4,000       4,000      4,000       4,000
Repairs 4/                          3,500       3,500      3,500       3,500
Transportation                      2,500       2,500       2,500      2,500
Miscellaneous 5/                    7,500       7,500      7,500       7,500
Total Operating Cost      110,500    110,500    110,500    110,500
Investment Cost                      126,770
Debt Service
Amortization                       49,143      49,143      49,143
Service fee                         3P423       2,428       1,293     _
Total Outflow              289,836    162,071    160 936    110,500
Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit                           183,750    183,750    183,750    183,750
Cost                              237,270    11O,500    110,500    110,500
Net Benefit                (53,520)    73,250      73,250      73,250
Financial Rate of Return:    44.6%
1/ Based on two four-month croppings per year. Total fingerlings, 300,000;
estimated mortality, 30%; estimated prices of fish per ton, 4,000 units;
and price per ton, P3,500.
2/ Ten percent of investment cost as borrower's contribution.
3/ 300,000 per year @ P25 per hundred.
4/ Materials only; estimated 5% of investment cost of net and poles.
5/  Including fuel, oil and lubricants.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Development
1.        At present the livestock sub-sector contributes about 18% of the
gross value of agricultural production. In addition, carabaos (water buffalos)
and steers are an important source of draft power. In January 1973 the live-
stock population was estimated to be 2.1 million beef cattle, 5 million
buffalos, 9.7 million pigs, and 100 to 110 million poultry. Pig raising is
the most widespread livestock activity in the Philippines, with some 80 to
90% of the pork production coming from small backyard producers.
2.        Domestic demand for livestock products is expected to grow at about
6% p.a. through 1985. The rate of increase of production of pigs, cattle and
poultry meat has been such as to only just keep up with the poulation in-
crease, so that the per capita annual intake has remained at about 14 kg,
compared with the 41 kg recommended by the Food and Nutrition Research Center.
The Government places high priority on the development of the livestock sub-
sector not only to meet the increasing domestic demand for meat, but also as
a means of diversifying small-holder production and providing further employ-
ment for farm families. One problem facing the pig and poultry industries is
the inadequate availability of reasonably priced good quality feedstuffs.
However, the Philippines has great potential for increasing feedgrain produc-
tion, particularly corn and sorghum.
3.        Under the Second Rural Credit Project, sub-loans totalling about P 5
million were made for poultry and almost P 6 million for pigs. 1/ Sub-loans
of P 10 million and P11 million were disbursed for, poultry and pig development,
respectively, under the Third Rural Credit Project. 2/ Under the proposed
project, the following allocations would be made for livestock development:
1/   Summary of sub-loan releases under the Second Project from August 6, 1969
to June 30, 1974.
2/   Summary of sub-loan releases under the Third Project from May 15, 1974 to
April 30, 1976.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
No. of Sub-    Cost per Sub-
Projects          Project         Total
(Pesos)      (P Million)
Poultry-broiler               700           14,450            10.1
Poultry-layer                540            18,500            10.1
Pigs                       1,000           22,050             22.1
Beef Cattle                 1,000           5,300              5.3
Backyard and Small Farm Beef Cattle Breeding/Fattening
4.        The beef industry is divided into four main production systems:
(1) hill farming, (2) integrated cattle and coconuts, (3) backyard and small
farm cattle raising, and (4) commercial feedlots.
5.        Some 75% of the cattle in the Philippines are kept by small farmers.
Fattening operations are generally more profitable than the breeding of feeder
stock. The animals are handfed with rice, bran, corn, pigeon peas, ipil-ipil
and Napier grass. Farm waste materials including sugarcane tops are also
important feed components. Backyard cattle raising usually involves very low
capital investment, consisting of simple enclosure and/or tethers and some
water troughs, and labor is frequently supplied entirely by the family.
6.        Shortage of feeder stock is the major constraint on the expansion
of domestic beef production, in turn a result of low reproductive efficiency
of the breeder hers and the small natural breeder stock based. Improvement
as a result of the Second Livestock Development Project (1225-PH) will not
take place in time to alter this position as far as the Fourth Rural Credit
Project is concerned. Only limited use is made of artificial insemination
and the impact of breed improvement programs has been poor. The technical
advisory services are entirely inadequate to extend improved management tech-
niques to the very large numbers of small enterprises. In view of these
constraints, only 1,000 sub-projects of four heads would be included in the
project. Finance would primarily be for a heifer and 3 feeder steers, a unit
which would build up to 8 animals. Other minimal investment would be for a
small corral, legume seed, animal health, concentrate feeds and bull service
fees. The total investment cost for each sub-project would be about P 5,300
or a total of P 5.3 million for the projected 1,000 sub-projects. It is
assumed that the smallholder would have some feed available from his general
farming operations and that family labor would be available to tend the
cattle (Tables 1 through 3).
Pig Breeding/Fattening
7.        Slaughter estimates for 1974 vary between 6.5 and 7.5 million hogs.
The latter figure is consistent with estimates of pork production and con-
sumption for 1974, namely 350,000 tons and 8.3 kg per capita. Assuming a
population growth of 2.8% and constant per capita consumption, a conservative



ANNEX 11
Page 3
estimate of the additional annual demand for pork would be about 9,300 tons,
equivalent to the production from about 23,300 sows. Current financing of
piggery loans by DBP, including that provided under the Second Livestock
Development Project will increase the supply by about 14,000 sows per year.
8.        About 98% of the pigs produced in the Philippines comes from herds
of less than 50 animals and although large commercial piggeries may supply
an increasing share of the pork market in future, particularly in large urban
areas, there is ample scope for pig production by smallholders. There is
widespread experience in the raising of pigs by small farmers who usually keep
5 to 10 sows. In general breeding and fattening are combined but some back-
yard producers fatten purchased weaners. On-farm mixing of feed from agri-
cultural by-products is common. The climate of the Philippines reduces pig
housing requirements to a minimum, permitting the use of simple shelters.
Feed accounts for about 80 to 90% of pig production costs in the Philippines
and to improve returns in the long run feed conversion efficiency must be
improved by an effective breeding program. Although all of the common pig
diseases are present in the Philippines, they can be prevented or controlled
by appropriate hygiene and by vaccination and veterinary drugs that are
readily available throughout the country. However, a major constraint in this
regard is the inadequacy of technical assistance to small farmers.
9.        The proposed project is based on a model of 5 sows.  The estimated
investment cost for each sub-project is P 22,050 and the total allocation for
pig production would be P 22 million. (Tables 4 through 5). Up to 30% of the
total allocation may be used in multiples of the 5-sow model up to a maximum
of 15 sows for new larger operations and, for expansions, up to a total
post-investment herd size of 25 sows.
Poultry
10.       Poultry production has not kept pace with demand.  The National Eco-
nomic Development Authority-(NEDA) estimated that the per capita consumption
of poultry meat was only 2.8 kg in 1972, and the per capita consumption of
eggs, 3.2 kg. Assuming that the per capita consumption remains at the 1972
level, and that the population is increasing at a rate of 2.8% per annum, the
additional annual demand for poultry meat and eggs would be about 3,100 and
3,800 tons respectively. This is equivalent to the production of about 2.85
million broilers and about 360,000 layers. Current DBP lending and that
provided under the IBRD Second Livestock Development Project would support
an annual incremental production of about 1.6 million broilers and about
185,000 layers.
11.       A small number of large integrated poultry firms have been estab-
lished in recent years, operating units that have between 30,000 and 100,000
layers or broilers. This integrated production is based on contracts be-
tween producers and several large milling firms. Typically the feed mill, or
integrator, supplies chicks, feed and some veterinary supply services while



ANNEX 11
Page 4
the producer undertakes to provide housing, labor and management. The pro-
ducer returns the broilers to the integrator when they are 8 weeks old, at
which time he currently receives about P 1.20 per bird. The integrators have
taken over many of the hatcheries, with the result that the supply of chicks
to the independent producers is unreliable in some areas. Furthermore, the
millers control the supply of feeds and in times of shortage give preference
to their own contract producers. One facet of sub-loan appraisal would there-
fore be to examine the extent to which these constraints might jeopardize sub-
projects in any given locality. Most of the production from the integrated
enterprises goes to the large cities like Manila and Cebu.
12.       There is a significant market in the rural towns and barrios for
broilers and eggs. These markets are supplied from backyard enterprises with
less than 500 birds and by large commercial poultry farms with flocks ranging
from a few hundred to a few thousand birds. In fact it is estimated that
about 15% of the eggs and 60% of the poultry meat consumed in the Philippines
is still produced by small backyard enterprises. A common problem observed
by the mission in backyard poultry enterprises was poor design and siting
of poultry houses, leading to inadequate ventilation in summer and resulting
in lower production rates and significant mortality. Common faults were the
siting of fowlhouses against buildings and high walls. Often alternative
more suitable situations were not available because of the small size of the
backyards, but in many cases the environment for the poultry could have been
made more favorable by raising the structure clear of surrounding obstructions.
Design of some fowlhouses too was such that little air could circulate through
the side walls. These examples of basic faults in production techniques illus-
trate the inadequacy of the technical support services.
13.       Feed cost in 1973 represented about 80% of the total operating
costs 1/ and the position does not appear to have changed much since the time.
However, the present ratio of feed cost per kg to the price received per kg of
broiler meat and eggs is favorble to the producer and allows a good level of
profitability. Poultry financing under the proposed project would be limited
primarily to small backyard enterprises. Models are presented in this respect
for a 200 layer operation and 400 broiler enterprise. It is proposed that
financing be made available for 540 layer sub-projects at unit cost P 18,500
and 700 broiler sub-project at unit cost P 14,450. (Tables 6 through 9).
1/   Feedmill Industry Report, Manila, July 1973.  Economic Research Unit,
DBP.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Component
Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening Model
Investment Cost
Unit           Year 1
Investment                    Cost       No.           Cost
Item                Unit   (p)       Units          (P)
Fixed
Ipil Ipil Seed (HYV)         kg.       10       1             10
Corral                       no.      500       1            500
Maiden Heifers 1-2 yrs.      no.   1,200        1          1,200
Miscellaneous (5%)                                            85
Sub-Total                                           1,795
Working Capital
Bull Service Fee             no.       20       1             20
Feeder Steers 1-2 yrs.       no.   1,000        3          3,000
Animal Health       1/       AU        15       4             60
Concentrate Feeding-         kg.        0.45  960            432
Miscellaneous                                                 50
Sub-Total                                          3,562
Total Investment:                                       5,,357
1/ 2 kg. rice bran/AU/day for 4 months.



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
. Livestock Component
Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening Model
Herd Projection
Without---------------------------------At End of Year-----------------------------------------
Project   1         2       3        4        5        6        7         8        9        10   11-20
Herd Composition
Breeding Cows and
Replacements                 -        -        1       1        1        1        1        2         2        3        3       3
Calves Weaned                  -        -        -       I        -        1        -         1        1        2        2       2
Heifers 1-2 yrs                -        1        -       -        -         -       1         -        1        -        1       1
Steers 1-2 yrs                 -        3        3       3        3        3        3        3         3        3        2       2
Total Animals                -                 4       5        4        5        5        6        7         8        8       8
Total Animal Units           -        4        4       4        4        5        5        5        6        6         6       6
Purchases
Heifers 1-2 yrs                -        1        -       -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -       -
Steers 1-2 yrs                 -        3        3       3        2        3        3         3        3        2        1       1
Breed Heifer                   -        -                                                                                1       -
Mortality
Cows and Replacements          -        -        -       _        -        -        -         -        -        -        -       -
Sales
Cull Cows                      -        -        -       -        _        -        -         -        -        -        1       -
Weaners                        -        -        -       -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -       -
Animals 2-3 yrs                -        -        3       3        3        3        3        3         3        3        3       3
Total Sales                                    3       3        3        3                 3        3        3         4       3
Technical Coefficients through Project Life
C5Plves weaned (%)             -        60
Mortality - Cows (%)           -         3
Cull Rate - Cows (%)           -        10
Steer liveweight gain (gms/day) -  300
Steer purchase liveweight (kg)  -  160 @ p6.25/kg
Steer sale liveweight (kg)             271i @ P6.00/kg  =Pl,6h)



PhILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Component
Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening
Cash Flow Projection
(Pesos)
Year     Year       Year       Year       Year       Year       Year        Year       Year      Year      Year
1        2          3          4          5           6         7           8          9          10      11-20
Cash Inflow
Sales-/                          -       4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      6,132      4,932!/
Cash from Previous Period         536      -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
Loan (90% of Investment)       4,821        -          -          -                                -          -                     -
Total Inflow               5,357    4,932       4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      6,132      4,932
Cash Outflow
Operating Expens2
Feeder3Steers-                 3,000    3,000       3,000      2,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      2,000      1,900       1,000
Health-                            60        60         60         60         75         75         75         90         90         90.        90
Bull Service yees-                 20        20         20         20         20         20         40         40         60         60         60
Concentrates5-                    432      432        432        432        540         540        540        648        648        648        648
Miacellaneous                      50        50         50         50         60         60         60         70         70         70         70
Total Operating Expenses 3,562    3,562         3,562      2,562      3,695      3,695      3,715      3,848      2,868      2,768      1,868
6/
Investment in Fixed Assets-        1,795       -          -          -                                -                     -             :
Debt Service
Amortization                   1,124    1,124       1,124      1,124      1,124      1,124      1,124         -          -          -
S.rv!ce Charge                     96        87        77          66        52         37          20       -           -          -
Total Outflow              6,577    4,773       4,763      3,752      4,871      4,856      4,859      3,848      2,868      2,768      1,868
Financial Benefit Cost
Benefit                           -      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      4,932      6,132,    4,932
Cost                           5,357    3,562       3.562      2 562      3,695      3 695      3,715      3,848      2,868      2,768       1,868
Net Benefit                   (5,357)   1,370       1,370      2,370      1,237      1,237      1,217      1,084      2,064      3,364       3,064
Internal Rate of Return - over 100% (based on first five years)
I/ Average live weight 274 kg. e P6/1g. or P1,664/head.
2t Estimated purchase price P1,000/head
+15/Animal Unit
-  *20/Female per year
2 kg. rice bran per animal uniit per day for 4 months at P.45/kg.
- Includes fixed cost items from Table 1.
Excludes rendered value of herd at Year 20 of }8,000.



ANNEX 11
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Component
Backyard Pig Project - 5 Broodsows
Investment Cost
Year 1
Item                                        Unit Cost    Number      Cost
(P)       of Units    (P)
Fixed
Piggery and Pens (60 sq. m.)                   160           1       9,600
Fixtures and Appliances                         -            -         600
Stock (gilts)                                  900           5      4,500
Sub-total                                                 14!700
Working Capital
Feeds and Feed Additives                                            6,500
Veterinary                                                             300
Boar Service                                                           250
Other                                                                  300
Sub-total                                                  7,350
Total Investment                                          22,050



ANNEX 11
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Component
Cash Flow Projection for 5-Sow Piggery Project
(Pesos)
Year 1        Year 2-7        Year 8-10
Cash Inflow
Sales -/                             7,170         13,110           13,110
Cash from Previous Period 2          2,205            -                 -
Loan (90% of Investment)            19,84_5_                          __
Total Inflow             29,220          13,110           13,110
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses
Feeds and Additives               6,500          6,500            6,500
Veterinary                          300            300              300
Boar Service Fees                   250            250              250
Miscellaneous                       300            300              300
Total Operating Expenses             7,350          7,350            7,350
Investment in Fixed Assets 31       14,700
Debt Service
Amortization                      4,628          4,628              _
Service Fee                         397            233             _
Total Outflow           27,075         12,211            7,350
Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit                              7,170         13,110           13,110
Cost                                22,050          7,350            7,350
Net Benefit                        (14,880)         5,760            5,760
Financial Rate of Return:   36.0%
1/ Weanlings @ 50 to 60 days P180 2; F6,120 in Year 1; 12,060 thereafter
plus cull sows, 150 kg. @ P7/kg. liveweight (1 per year)
2/ Ten percent equity contribution.
3/ Includes fixed cost items from Table 4.



ANNEX 11
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Component
Poultry Project -- 200 layers
Investment Costs
No. of     Cost per    Total
units      unit (P)   Cout (P)
Fixed
Housing and Facilities -/                         1         3,000       3,000
Stock -                                        200              18.00  3,600
Sub-total                                            6,600
Working Capital
Feeds -/                                                               11,180
Medicines, Vaccines, Supplements -                                        220
Other                                                                     500
Sub-total                                          11,190
Total Investment Cost                               18,500
1/ Based on UPLB and Vitarich Corporation estimates of Pl5 per bird space.
2/ 18 week old pullets at P18 per bird.
3/ Feed at P65 per 50 kg bag; 43 kg per layer per year.
4/ 2% of feed costs.



ANNEX 11
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Component
Cash Flow Projection for 200-Layer Poultry Project
(Pesos)
Year          Year          Year
1            2-5           6-10
Cash Inflow
Sales -/                             16,879         17,854        17,854
Cash from Previous Period              1,850          -             -
Loan (90% of Investment)             16,650           -             -
Total Inflow                         35,379         17,854        17,854
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Feeds                             10,965        11,180        11,180
Health Suppliers                      615           670           670
Light and Water                       220           220           220
Miscellaneous                         100           100           100
Total Operating Cost                  11,900        12,470        12,470
Investment in Fixed Assets            6,600            -             -
Debt Service
Amortization                       4,850         4,850
Service Fee                          333            188           -
Total Outflow                        23,683         17,508        12,4.70
Net Cash Flow                         11_696           346         5,384
Financial Benefit Cost
Benefit                               16,879        17,854        17,854
Cost                                 18,500         12,470        12,470
Net Benefit                           (1,621)        5,384         5,384
Financial Rate of Return - Over 100%
l/ Eggs: 17/bird/month @ P.40
Culls: P9.75 each
Manure: P215/year
Feed bags: P2 each



AuNNEX I1
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Component
Poultry Project -- 400 Broilers
Investment Costs
No. of    Cost per       Total
Units     Unit (P)    Cost (R)
Fixed
Housing and Facilities -/                   1        180          5,700
Initial Stock  2/                         400          2.30         920
Sub-total                                          6,620
Working Capital
Feeds -/                                                          7,250
Medicines, Vaccines, Supplements -                                  435
Light and Water -/                                                  145
Sub-total                                          7,830
Total Investment Cost                             14,450
1/  Housing at P180 per sq. m. at 14 birds per sq. m.   5,143.
2/  Day old chick P2.30 each.   400 + 2%.
3/  Feeds -  starter 408 x 1.45 =  591.6 kg at P1.45 kg)
finisher 408 x 1.80 = 734.4 kg at Fl.30/kg)
4/  6% of feeds      =  1,813 each
5/ 2% of feeds



ANNEX 11
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Component
Cash Flow Projection for 400-Broiler Sub-Project
(Pesos)
Year        Year         Year
1          2-7          8-10
Cash Inflow
Sales 1/                              15,808       19,760       19,760
Cash from Previous Period              1,445         -             227
Loan (90% of Investment)              13,005         -             3k3
Total Inflow                          30,258       19,760       20,350
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Feeds                               7,250        9,063        9,063
Health Supplies                       435          544          544
Light and Water                       145          145          145
Miscellaneous                         100          100          100
Total Operating Costs                  7,830        9,852        9,852
Investment in Fixed Assets             6,620          -            -
Debt Service
Amortization                        2,850        2,850          -
Service Fee                           260          150         -
Total Outflow                         17,300       12,852        9,852
Net Cash Flow                         122958        6_908        9,908
Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit                               15,808       19,760      19,760
Cost                                  14,450        9,852       9,852
Net Benefit                            1,358        9,908        9,908
Financial Rate of Return - Over 100%
l/ First year: 4 batches of 400 birds less 5% mortality; 1.3 kg/bird
@ P8/kg,   manure,  181; and feed bags, P 290
Thereafter:  5 batches; manure, p 227; and feed bags, P 363



Page  1
PfE ILIPPI"NES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
introduction
During the course of project implementation, routine reporting of
progress would continue to be undertaken by CB. In addition to this project
monitoring, an evaluation would be conducted of the impact of the project's
farm mechanization components on the rural economy. While the Technical
Support and Evaluation Unit (TSEU) and Loan Teams of CB would be involved
in field work related to this evaluation, funds would be provided for the
recruitment of qualified consultants to design the study and carry out anal-
ysis and report writing. This approach is preferred to the use entirely of
CB staff for the following reasons: the study would constitute an inordinate
fixed-term workload on CB staff; a range of economic skills and resources
would be required which CB has no regular call to maintain within its staff
and facilities; and, the separation of responsibility between executing agent
and evaluator would facilitate an essential degree of objectivity in the study.
A.   Proiect Monitoring
2.        The reporting of progess under the Third Project was generally
satisfactory and the overall pattern of reporting would continue unchanged.
However, TSEU would undertake a review of present reports and propose changes
as appropriate for discussion with the first Bank supervision mission with
respect to the following considerations:
(i) improvements in the procedures for data collection and the
report formats themselves to reduce the large volume of
paper flow and the extent of duplication in report content;
(ii) inclusion of pre-investment characteristics of sub-borrowers
in routine reporting; and
(iii) increased timeliness of reporting of project accounts in indi-
vidual banks.
TSEU would also be responsible to monitor sub-loans to restricted categories -
tractors, for price and total volume; tillers, for price; and sub-loans to
sLmall beneficiaries to ensure that a minimum of US$11 million of loan proceeds
accrue to the target group.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
3.        As part of project implementation, it is also the responsibility of
CB to establish, enforce and review sub-loan appraisal standards and proce-
dures. While these are agreed with the Bank in general at the time of ap-
praisal, it is essential that they be periodically reviewed and amended
to insure efficient appraisal and viable sub-projects, not only under con-
ditions of changing costs and prices, but in view of the gradual development
of financial and technical capacity within the on-lending agencies themselves.
This is one of the most important functions of TSEU, for which they will be
expected to establish an annual program of work. Such a program would include
but not be limited to the following:
For each sub-loan category:
(i) cost, price and capacity utilization assumptions and regional
variations in each;
(ii) demand projections for investment output and comparison with
anticipated supply, the balance of these two to be assessed
on the basis of geographic areas of markets served;
(iii) other constraints such as availability of inputs, parts or
service which might affect the success of sub-projects;
(iv) the type and availability of requisite technical assistance;
and
(v) the appropriateness of the share of project proceeds accruing
to the category in view of its financial and economic potential.
For each region:
(i) the appropriateness of the share and blend of project proceeds
accruing to the region in view of its potential as well as its
share of population and relative degree of development.
For each lending agency (individually or by group classification):
(i) the appropriateness of the degree and type of delegation of
authority;
(ii) the key constraints on further delegation of authority; and
(iii) measures to be taken, probably in the form of specific
technical assistance, to remove these constraints.
4.        Price Control.  Under previous projects, a staff of the operational
Divisions without the required qualification was given the task to approve
price increases for tractors, tillers and their implements. In view of the
importance now placed on the reduction and monitoring of these prices, this
task has been transferred to TSEU and it would be imperative that the Unit



ANNEX 12
Page 3
assigns to this function a qualified engineer who would be expected to have
or acquire the necessary background with which to scrutinze applications for
price increases. An additional function of this officer, which would be com-
patible with the above task, would be to act as a liaison officer with the
Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project.
B.   Evaluation
5.        There is widespread concern among those engaged in rural develop-
ment that farm mechanization may result in a number of adverse social effects,
particularly unemployment. Economic and social patterns within a particular
locale and the nature of the mechanization in question are crucial factors
which preclude broad generalizations, but some evidence has emerged from
recent studies within the Bank and elsewhere to confirm that under particular
circumstances those adverse effects do occur.
6.        The Bank has for a number of years been supporting a farm mechani-
zation program in the Philippines but on the basis of evidence available to
date this investment has not been found to have led to these undesirable side
effects. Taking into account the initial findings of the study conducted
under the Third Project, we concluded that empirical evidence on the results
of mechanization of the type supported should be sought in a sufficiently
comprehensive manner to provide conclusive evidence. A study of the impact of
farm mechanization on the rural economy of the Philippines has therefore been
included in the Fourth Rural Credit Project.
Purpose of the Study
7.        The proposed study is intended to provide empirical evidence of the
impact of specific types of farm mechanization on the following:
(i) financial results of the enterprise to which machinery is
provided (assumed to be the major benefit against which
possible drawbacks would be considered);
(ii) cropping intensity, area cultivated and adoption of other
improved technology, for example the use of fertilizer,
pesticides and high yielding varieties;
(iii) factors and risks associated with weather;
(iv) employment; in the operation(s) mechanized, in other essen-
tial operations, and in supporting, productive on-farm
activities;
(v) type of employment; family or hired, skilled or unskilled;
(vi) season variations in employment patterns;



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(vii) extent of custom hire opportunities; and
(viii) income distribution, social mobility and
social stratification.
Three types of mechanization would be examined separately with respect to
these issues: hand tractors including power tillers, four-wheel tractors
and portable rice treshers.
Methodology
8.        The study would be based on pre- and post-investment surveys.  Pre-
investment surveys would be conducted at the time of sub-loan appraisal, in
most cases as part of the appraisal process by the evaluating officer of the
financial institution or CB. 1/ Post-investment surveys would be conducted
by the consultants after three to four crops seasons. Survey design and
analytical methodology would be developed by the consultants in consultation
with representatives of DRBSLA and the Bank. 2/
\ ,,,z'.
Organization
9.        Subject to confirmation of interest, it is proposed that the study
be conducted by the University of the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB). Funds
would be channelled through DRBSLA in accordance with an agreed schedule of
work. A steering committee would be established to oversee the study,
specifically to:
(i) agree on a timetable for its execution;
(ii) agree on and coordinate the inputs to be made by agencies other
than UPLB;
(iii) provide administrative support in terms of contractual agree-
ments and flow of funds; and
(iv) receive and comment on progress reports and draft findings of
the study.
This committee would consist of one senior representative each from the
Institute of Agricultural Development and Administration (UPLB), DRBSLA
(CB), International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), the Department of Agricul-
ture, Technical Board on Agricultural Credit, and representatives from the
Bank. Responsibility for Bank participation (in person or by correspondence)
would be undertaken by the Rural Credit and Agro-Business Division, East Asia
1/   The consultants responsible for the study would conduct a sample number
of these surveys to develop a familiarity with field level conditions
and to establish a control base against which to identify biases which
might arise in the balance of the data.
2/   Mechanization which has taken place outside of the proposed project,
including that under previous CB:IBRD projects might also be examined
in the study.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
and Pacific Projects Department, although participation by staff outside the
Division, notably the Central Project Staff (CPS) would be requested from time
to time.
Timing and Procedures
10.       The study is expected to take place over a period of about three
years. Pre-investment surveys would be conducted during the first six to
twelve months of the implementation of the Fourth Project, beginning March
1977 and follow-up surveys and analysis would begin as investments reached
an age of 18-24 months. Results of the study would be available by early
1980 and could therefore be used in appraisal should another credit project
be undertaken at the completion of disbursement of the Fourth Project.
11.       Preliminary discussions among Bank, DRBSLA and UPLB representatives
will be undertaken in early 1977. Subject to agreement at that time, a
detailed study outline and the pre-investment survey design would be dis-
cussed during the first project supervision, mid-1977. Thereafter, review of
progress would be undertaken primarily in the course of project supervision.
Participation of representatives of CPS in supervision would be invited from
time to time for this purpose. A draft report of the study would be circu-
lated to member agencies for comment prior to the submission of the final
report.
Estimated Costs
12.       Pending further discussions in the Bank and with UPLB, detailed
cost estimates cannot be prepared. A tentative estimate of the cost of UPLB
services including report production is US$25,000. This estimate assumes the
availability of CB and Bank staff time for purposes described without direct
charge cost to the study.



ANNEX 13
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
Million Pesos                  Thousand US Dollars    Foreign
% of                               Exchange
Local  Foreign   Total  Total  Local   Foreign   Total    (x)
Farm Mechanization
Tractors                 169.4   138.5   307.9   45.0   22,587   18,466   41,053   45
Power Tillers             55.4    24.6    80.0   11.7    7,387    3,280   10,667   31
Irrigation Pumps           5.3      3.4      8.7    1.3        693       467    1,160   40
Portable Threshers         6.5      3.4      9.9    1.4        867       453    1,320   35
Other Equipment            4.2      4.1      8.3    1.2        560       547    1,107   50
Sub-total         240.8   174.0   414.8   60.6   32,094   23,213   55,307   42
Light Transportation
Light Trucks               6.6      4.3    10.9    1.6         866       587    1,453   40
Fisheries Development
Fishing Boats             10.4      7.0    17.4    2.6    1,386          934    2,320   40
Fishponds                 95.5    10.6   106.1   15.5   12,734    1,413   14,147   10
Fishpens                   7.7      0.8      8.5    1.2    1,013         120    1,133   10
Sub-total         113.6    18.4   132.0   19.3   15,133    2,467   17,600   14
Livestock Development
Poultry                   24.3      2.7    27.0    4.0    3,240          360    3,600   10
Pigs                      26.5      3.0    29.5    4.3    3,533          400    3,933   10
Cattle                     6.4      0.7      7.1    1.0        854        93       947   10
Sub-total          57.2      6.4    63.6    9.3    7,627          853    8,480   10
Cottage & Agro-Industries
Rice Mills                 4.7      3.1      7.8    1.1        627       413    1,040   40
Farm Implements            6.5      4.3    10.8    1.6         867       573    1,440   40
Woodcraft                  4.0      1.0      5.0    0.8        534       133       667   20
Concrete Products          6.7      1.7      8.4    1.2        893       227    1,120   20
Handicraft                 6.9      1.7      8.6    1.2        920       227    1,147   20
Others                     9.6      2.4    12.0    1.8    1,280          320    1,600   20
Sub-total         38.4    14,2    52.6    7,7    5,121    1,893    7,014   27
Total (Sub-Loans)   45L_I   217.3   673.9   98.5   60,841   29,013   89,854   32
Project Support
Training                   2.1        0      2.1    0.3        280         0       280    0
Mechanization Study        0.8         0     0.8    0.1        107         0       107    0
Service Vehicles           1.7      1.7      3.4    0.5        226       227      453   50
Testing Project            3.4      0.8      4.2    0.6        454       106       560   19
Sub-total          8.0      2.5    10.5    1.5    1,067          333    1,400   24
Grand Total      464.6   219.8   684.4  100.0   61,908   29,346   91,254   32



ANNEX 14
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
IBRD FY and Quarters      Commitments        Disbursements        Disbursements
--------------   US$1,000
1977
4th                3,300
1978
1st               3,200               1,650                 1,650
2nd               3,200               3,250                 4,900
3rd                3,100              3,200                 8,100
4th               3,100               3,150                11,250
1979
1st               3,100               3,100                14,350
2nd               2,600               3,100                17,450
3rd               2,500               2,850                20,300
4th                3,000              2,550                22,850
1980
1st               3,000               2,750                25,600
2nd                3,200              3,000                28,600
3rd                3,200              3,100                31,700
4th                  -                3,200                34,900
1981
ist                                   1,600                36,500



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I/
Phasing of the Lending Program -
(Pesos Million)
Year 1                       Year 2                     Year 3                       Total
No. of       Project        No. of        Project       No. of       Project       No. ot        Project
Sub-Projects       Costs    Sub-Projects        Costs   Sub-Projects    Costs   Sub-Projects           Costs
Tractors (less than 68 hp)                95          13.9            250          39.4           430         73.2           775          126.5
Tractors (68 to 80 hp)                   700         124.7            3oo          56.7             0            0         1,000          181.4
Power Tillers (local made)             2,000          16.9          2,300         21.0          3,000        29.6          7,300           67.5
Power Tillers(imported)                  100            2.2           150           3,7           250          6,6           500           12.5
Irrigation Pumps                          80           1.6            160           3.4           160         3.7            400            8.7
Portable Threshers                       120            1.8           240           3.9           240          4.2           600            9.9
Other Implements                          48            1.5            96           3.3            96          3.5           240            8.3
Light Trucks                              80           2.0            160          4.3            160         4.6            400           10.9
Coastal Fishing Boats                      8           2.7             18           6.8            19          7.9            45           17.4
Fishponds                                350          28.2            350         31.3            465        46.6          1,165          106.1
Fishpens                                  10           1.5             20           3.3            20         3.7             50            8.5
Poultry                                  248           4.8            496         10.5            496        11.7          1,240           27.0
Pigs                                     200           5.1            400          11.5           400        12.9          1,000           29.5
Cattle Breeding                          200           1.2            400           2.8           400          3.1         1,000            7.1
Rice Mills                                 3           0.7             11          2.7             16         4_4             30            7.8
Farm Implements                            3            0,9            11           3.8             16         6.1             30          10.8
Woodcraft                                  3            0.4            11           1.8            16          2.8            30            5.0
Concrete Products                          2           o.6             10          3.2             13         4.6             25            8.4
Handicraft                                 5           0.8             19           3.1            26          4.7            50            8.6
Others                                     6           1.0             24          4.6             30          6.4            60           12.0
Total                4,261         212.5          5,426        221.1          6,253       240.3         15,940          673.9
1/  The implementation of the project in terms of percentage of the number of sub-loans would take place as follows:
Year 1     __                    Year 2                             Year 3
1st   2nd   3rd   4th            1st    2nd   3rd   4th             1st   2nd   3rd   4th
Qtr   Qtr   Qtr   Qtr            Qtr    gq      Qtr   Qtr           Qtr   Qtr   Qtr   Qtr
6      6     7      8            8       8      9      9            9    10    10    10
Estimates are based on December 1975 prices and include the following contingencies:
1977           1978            1979
i) Equipment                       17%               8%              8%
ii) Civil Works                     23%              12%             12%
Commitment Ratio                    80:20           65:35           55:45
i) :ii)
fin



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH CREDIT PROJECT
Sunwiary of Financial Rates of Return for
Agricultural Components I/
Operating
Beat           Investment   Operating   Benefits          Benefits      Costs + 10        Other                        Source
Estimate       Coat + 207        Cost + 10   + 10%          - 10.      Benefits - 10
Tractor - Sugarcane               16.6%          11.3%         14.4%       21.2%          12.0%                   9.7%                              Annex 8 Table 5
- Rice                   12.5            8.2          10.0        17.2            7.4                    4.6   (Investment -10%) 15.2   Annex 8 Table 6
Power Tiller                       8.2            1.6           1.2        18.2             .0                     .0                               Annex 8 Table 7
Portable Thresher                 58.0           46.4          55.7        66.5           49.5                  47-5                                Annex 8 Table 8
Fishing Boat                      31.0           24.6          25.4        39.9           21.4                  15.4                                Annex 10 Table 2
Fishpond                          31.0           25.0          22.0        40.0           22.0                  18.0                                Annex 10 Table 4
Fishpen                           44.6           32.6          33.8        61.8           26.3                  14.4                                Annex 10 Table 6
Backyard Cattle Raising   over 100                                                              -                                                   Annex 11 Table 3
Piggery                           36.0           29.0          29.0        47.0           24.0                  17.0                                Annex .11 Table 5
Poultry - 200 Layers        over 100                -            -           -              -                   44.0   (Benefits -20%) 33.0         Annex 11 Table 7
Poultry - 400 Broilers    over 100                  -            _           _              _                    4.2   (Benefits -207.) 24.0   , Annex 11 Table 9
1/   A summary of financial rates of return for cottage and agro-industrial             sub-projects
appears as Table 1 to Annex 9.



ANNEX 17
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        The economic impact of the proposed project is presented in Chapter
VIII, including incremental production, employment generation, foreign ex-
change impact and benefits to smaller borrowers. The purpose of this Annex
is to present cost and price assumptions for the analysis and supporting
tables.
2.        Costs and Prices.  Economic costs of investment have been derived
by deducting duties and taxes from financial investment costs. Such duties
and taxes range between 10% and 20% on the landed cost of imported items, and
we estimate them to amount to 8% of total project cost, equivalent to about
25% of the foreign exchange component. Market prices of fertilizer and
petroleum products approximate their economic costs and no shadow pricing of
these commodities have been undertaken. Similarly, unskilled labor has been
costed at its market rate since the majority of the project's employment
creation would occur in accordance with the crop cycle, the primary deter-
mination of employment in the rural Philippines. In the absence of strong
evidence to the contrary, we have assumed that the relative prices of both
factors and products would remain constant.
3.        Summary of Benefits.  Incremental production as a result of the
project is estimated to have an annual value of P 379.4 million at full dev-
elopment (Table 1). Direct employment resulting from sub-loan investments
would reach 10,000 jobs (full-time equivalent) at full development (Table 2).
About 2,200 man years per year would be associated with loans to small bene-
ficiaries. About 31% of total sub-loan proceeds would be directed to invest-
ments by small beneficiaries whose net income from such investments would
average P 5,445 per year. In addition, small farmers would be the major
recipients of custom hire services generated by the project, the most sub-
stantial of which would be cultivation capacity of about 310,000 ha per year.
The net foreign exchange earnings of the project at full development would be
US$9.2 million from investment with an initial foreign exchange cost of
US$29.4 million.
4.        Economic Rate of Return.  In view of the fact that shadow pricing
of factors and products was not considered justified in the sub-project,
analysis, economic and financial rates of return would differ only slightly
as a result of adjustments for duties and taxes on investment costs. Eco-
nomic rates of return were not, therefore, calculated for each sub-project.
An overall economic rate of return of 21% was determined for the project,
including contingencies and costs associated with supporting services (Table
3). A 10% increase in operating costs of all components would result in a
rate of return of 16%.



C3449/J3476/D661/A-1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Annual Incremental Production
No. of      Increase             Annual                   Gross Value
Product                     Sub-project              Units        per Unit            Increase           P Million       $ Million
Rice                        Tractors                  1,325       15.0  MT             19,875 MT            19.88             2.65
Rice                        Tillers                  6,650         3.0  MT             19,950 MT            19.95             2.66
Corn                        Tillers                   1,150        6.2  MT              7,130 MT             5.70             0.76
Fish                        Fishing Boats                45       90.0  MT              4,050 MT            12.15             1.62
Fish                        Fishponds                 1,165        7.5  MT              8,738 MT           34.95             4.66
Shrimp                      Fishponds                 1,165        2.5  MT              2,913 MT           29.13             3.88
Fish                        Fishpens                     50       52.5  MT              2,625 MT            9.19              1.22
Eggs                        Poultry (layer)             540        2.04 MT              1,102 MT            8.81             .1.18
Poultry Meat                Poultry (layer)             540        0.13 MT                  70 MT           0.53             0.07
Poultry Meat                Poultry (broiler)           700        2.47 MT              1,729 MT           13.83              1.84
Pork                        Pigs                      1,000       .0.15 MT                 150 MT            1.05            0.14
Beef                        Cattle Breeding           1,000        0.85 MT                847 MT             5.08            0.68
Weanlings                   Pigs                      1,000       67 Heads            67,000 Heads         12.06              1.61
Various                    Cottage and                  225          -                     -               98.30            13.11
Agro-Industries
(Services)
Land Preparation            Tractors (rice)           1,325       121.0 Ha            160,325 Ha           48.10             6.41
Land Preparation           Tillers (rice)            6,650          8.1 Ha             53,865 Ha           14.81             1.98
Land Preparation           Tillers (corn)             1,150        10.6 Ha             12,190 Ha            3.35             0.45
Land Preparation           Tractors (sugar)             450       195.0 Ha             87,750 Ha           31.59             4.21
Cargo Transportation       Light Trucks                 400       12,000 Ton/Km       4.8 M Ton/Km          1.44             0.19
Threshing                   Portable Threshers          600         240 MT            144,000 MT            7.20             0.96
Milling                     Rice Mills                   30       1,250 MT             37,500 MT            2.25             0.30
Total Value                                                                                               379.35            50.58
- -
F m



C3449/J3476/D661/A-2
ANNEX 17
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Direct Employment Effect of the Project
Employment           No. of            Increased
Sub-projects                       per Unit            Units             Employment
Tractors                              1.0                1,775              1,775
Power Tillers                         0.1                7,800                780
Light Trucks                          2.0                  400                800
Irrigation Pumps                        -                    -                  -
Other Farm Equipment                    -                    -                   -
Coastal Fishing Boats                 9.0                   45                405
Fishponds & Fishpens                  1.2                1,210              1,452
Poultry                                 -                    -                  -
Pigs
Cattle Breeding!
Fattening                             -                     
Rice Mills                            4.0                   30                120
Farm Implements                      20.0                   30                600
Woodworking                          25.0                   30                750
Concrete Products                    12.0                   25                300
Handicrafts & Others                 33.0                  110              3,300
Total                                       11,455              10,282



FOURTH RURAI CREDIT PROJECT
RCONC(IIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
(Peo  mfiltio.) 
een-I Y1          r 2          Year 3          Year 4          year 5         Year 6          Year 7          Year 8          Year 9          Year 10          Year 11          Year 12
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Tn.ct-t-  (Rtet fPrduetio )                          218             469             669             669             669             669            669             669             669              669               451              200
Tractore   (S-gar Feodant-on)                        330             330             330             330             330             330            330             330             330               S                             I
TIller.                                              114             239             406             406             406             291            177              26              26               16
Fartolle ftreeher                                     14              43              72              72              72              72             72              72              72               72               58               29
Irrigation FPapa                                      13              38              63              63              63              51              25
Light Truake                                          18               54             90              90              90              72              36
FiahJng Bonte                                         19              63             109             109             109             109            109             109             109              109               90               46
Fi.hpond.                                             70              179            324             459             548             641            641             641             641              641              44B              256
Fi.lehp-                                              18               55             92              92              74              37
8.ckWd C-ttle Re-ring                                 'O               29             49              49              49              39              20
Ftiger1er                                            14               55             107             131             131            131             131             131             131              131              105               52
Foultry                                              40              127             221             233             233            233             233             233             233              233              186               93
Cnttnge and Agro-Indnetrie_ 42                                         78            113             117             119             119             119            119             119              119                71               36
Tatal Inere.nntel Benefit,                           920            1759            2645            2820            2893           2794            2562            2330            2330             2320             1409              712
INCREMENTAL COSTS
Tr-ntor-  (Rice Prod-ctl on)                         125             260             351             351             351            351             351             351             351              351              226               91
Trac or,  (Sager PredutiLon)                         145             145             145             145             145             145            145             W. 5            145              145
Tiller.                                               73             152             257             257             257             185            112              17              17               10
Panlable Threher.                                    04               12              19              19              19              19             19              19              19               19               15               08
IrrIgation F.aapF                                    11               33              55              55              55
Light Track.                                          11              33              55              55              55
FlahIng Bo-ta                                         12               37             65              65              65              65              65             65              65               oS               53               27
Flehpe-d!                                            47              100             185             243             297             341            341             341             341              341              239              136
Ft.hp.                                                11               33             55              55              44              22
Bankyard Cattle Recring                              07               22              36              36              36              29              14
PFggaIle.                                            15               44              74              74              74             74              74              74              74               74               59               30
PFultry                                              28               83             139             139             139            139             139             139             139              139              111               56
Cntt.ge e-d ASrn-Iadaatrlea                          35               58              83              81              82             82              82              82              82               80               48               23
Total Inr-ental Cant.                               524             1012            1519            1575            1619            1540           1386            1233            1233             1224              751              371
ESTIIATED
INVESEMENT COSTS                       DUTIES 6
(AdJ.et.d far D0tte- and Te-)    TAXES
1. S0b-Len CLtegeele .
TrentOr.  (Ric  Frednenion)          107%          614              692             465
Trantar. (Sgafr Frodacttan)          10X           713
Tiller                            5/107.           157              193             261
Portt.bl  Threch.et                  10            16               35              38
Irrigatlan FueepF                   10%             14               31              33
Light Tr-cke                         10%            18               39              41
piehtig BSnt.                         5%            25               65              75
FIthp-nd.                                          282              313             466
Fi hpe..                                            15               33              37
BSckgra..d Cattle Reari.g                           12               28              31
FIg;ert1e                                           51              115             129
P-eltry                                             48              105             117
Celtage *nd Agre-Ieda.ttle.           5%            42              173             261
S.b-Tnt.l                                         2007             1822            1954
2. SppFrtinhg Ine-t ..ntr
Tr-ietng                              -             04               06              06
VahteIe* far Field St.ff             10%            13               -
Stady                                 -             01               03              02
Kachinery Tint.  PraJert              -             24               02              02
S.b-tetel                                           44               11              10
rteal In.e-..-t C.t                               2051            1i3             1960
396             747            1126            1245            1274             1254          1176            1097            1097             1096              658              341
tconnn.l  ERte ef B.t.rn            212






IBRD 12585
120                                                                    124                                                       FEBRUARY 1977
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                                                                     PhilIPPINES
1 boosNorte                    37 Akan                                                                                    FOURTH RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
-20      2    Abra                      38   CCpiz                                                                                                                        C     E
3    Itocos Sur                39    Antique                                                   8                                                                ROADS
4    Moontain                  40   Iloilo                                                                                                                      R
5   La Union                   41   Negros Occidenta l                                                                                          -h-. f--I-I-   RAiLWAYS
6     eensuet                  42   Cebu
7   Pangasinan                 43   Negros Oriental
8   Batanes                    44   Bohol             -                                 '                                                                       AIRPORTS
9   Cagavan                    45   Siquijor                                         :                                                                          PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
10   Kalinga-Apayao             46   Northarn Samar                  .
11   isabeia                    47   Samtar                                           1abvay, Cheas  el                                         -        -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
12   Ifugao                     48   Eastern Samar                                                      San Vicente
13   Nueva Vizoaw               49   Leyte                           Lao
14   Quirino                    50   Southern Leyte                   Lao .              /      p
15   Nueva Ecija                51   Zamboanga del Norte t          s'
16   Tarlac                     52   Zomboanga del Sur                     "-7              \
17   Zambales                   53   Basilan                                        I           Tog a   rhe boundvo*e  sown on this manp do not
18   Parmpanga                  54   Sulu                                             1nply  endoenent or acceptace boy the
19   Bolotan  55   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~nonn~~~~  -  >~~~~/~~  ( ~World Bazk and it aff*tateL
19   Bulaan                     55   Tawiuw,i                            { ty          > 
20   Bataan                     56   Surigoo del Norte                     3(          '          logan
21   0uezon                     57   Camig.in          -                     '             "      nil
22   Rizal                      58   Agusan del Notte   San Fernmn    S           )/
23   Caoite                     59   Mioamis Oriental       Bol   '               /
24   Laguna                     60   Misamis Occidental                                                                                      S3 14  O    100     15      200    250    300
25   Sanasga                    61   Lanao del Norte                  D                    4                                                                KILOMETERS                                        1 60
26   Marinduque                 62   Lanmo del Sur           ; \________________0______________                                                                                            20_ _
27   Mindoro Oriental           63   Bukidnon .                       1&     /   ai   o nt                                                                       MILES
28   Mindoro Occidenul          B4   Agusan del S.,            5}(Ci     7MaaVtg 
29   Rombl-o                    65   Sorigao del Sur             i (\                W    t
30   Pabwan                     66   Maogindnao       .
31   Camarines Norte            67   North Cotabtao
32   Camarinet Sur              68   Davao                   D    r       i               2
33   Catandanes                 69  D0ao Oriental                    '2                                                               P  H   I    IPP IaN   E  Mf   A
34   AlbaY                      70   Owa. del Sur
35   Sonsogon                   71   Sultan Kudarat                  lganibn 3
36   Masbate                    72   Southr Cotubato                Na
Nab>>n
SOUTH  CHIINA                                                                '21                    UYA SEA
120                   S1E0A                                                         "                                                                               7
t       ~          \                   /    A            I 110,  tObod                       G    t
30~~~~~t 
COItOA   ~4 frIIDNA                                                                                                                              E   
= tAIWAN                aambog                                                                     G&tif   U
SOU   C HI71\\NS\
S A S64                 2 PHILIPPINES                                            J        Gn                                                                            Sno
AN\'                                                                                                    C  -ELEBES    SEAC
/                A~~~~~A
I~5j                            _                            >    12p0                                                                         12|40      '                                                   ' 28



