CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1399 PH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Fourth Rural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 11, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Central Bank of the Philippines (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million five
hundred thousand dollars ($36,500,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditiotis).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in th   Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of Parts A, B, C or D of the Project, to make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿1
-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part E
of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, Part E of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical,
administrative and financial practices and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for Part E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall not later than March 31,
1978, or such other date as the Bank shall agree, establish,
and thereafter maintain in the University of the Philippines at
Los BaTios an Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation and
Standardization Project with organization, staff and facilities
acceptable to the Bank and shall furnish to the Bank not later
than October 31, 1977 or such other date as the Bank shall agree,
draft plans and specifications for the said facilities.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part E of the
Project against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Guarantor to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan under Part E of the Project to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part E of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Part E of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan under the said Part E, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction


﻿-6-
sites included in Part E of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part E
of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Guarantor: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Guarantor to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Guarantor
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase price of
such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.


﻿-8-
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor or of any agency of the Guarantor
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Guarantor.
(e) The Guarantor further undertakes that, within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the
foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on the
assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to
the extent that the Guarantor is unable within the limits of the
laws in force in its territories to make this undertaking
effective, the Guarantor will give to the Bank an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall prepare or cause to be
prepared a study of the causes of arrears in rural banks and
savings and loan associations and of measures to be taken to
reduce such arrears and shall furnish the said study to the Bank
together with a plan of action for reduction of such arrears not
later than December 31, 1977 or such other date as the Bank shall
agree, for the Bank's comments.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
SECFINANCE                       727550
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By // Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


