CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1399 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Rural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Dated April 11, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1977, tbetween INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the
Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Rules and Regulations" means the Rules and Regulations
issued by the Borrower setting forth the operating policies and
procedures for the Project, including the terms and conditions
of Sub-loans and their financing by the Borrower as the same may
be amended by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) "Rural Bank" means a rural bank established, organized
and operating under Republic Act 720 of the Guarantor, as amended,
and selected by the Borrower to participate in the Project in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations.


﻿(c) "Savings and Loan Association" means a stock Savings and
Loan Association established, organized and operating under R.A.
3779, as amended, other than those operating exclusively in the
Greater Manila area, and selected by the Borrower to participate
in the Project in accordance with the Rules and Regulations.
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Rural Bank or a Savings and Loan Association to a Beneficiary to
assist such Beneficiary in meeting expenditures for the reasonable
cost of goods and services required to carry out investments under
the Project.
(e) "Beneficiary" means an individual farmer cultivating
not more than 50 hectares of land dedicated to agricultural
production, a person rendering direct agricultural production
services to such farmer, a person engaged in poultry, swine or
other livestock production, in coastal or inland fisheries, or in
cottage or agro-industrial production, to which a Rural Bank or a
Savings and Loan Association proposes to make or has made a
Sub-loan.
(f) "Small Beneficiary" means a Beneficiary:
(i) whose total self-earned income is less than
7500 pesos per year; or
(ii) whose total self-earned income is 7500 pesos
or more and who earns 75% or more of such
income from:


﻿4-
(A) agricultural operations carried out by
such Beneficiary on a total land holding
of less than 7 ha owned or leased by
such Beneficiary;
(B) a fishing enterprise owned or leased by
such Beneficiary and operated by him and
consisting of not more than 5 ha of
fishponds or fishpens or of not more
than one fishing vessel, such vessel not
to exceed 5 tons; or
(C) a cottage or agro-industrial enterprise
owned or operated by such Beneficiary
and consisting of fixed assets of less
than 100,000 pesos excluding land.
(g) "First, Second and Third Loans" means the loans made by
the Bank to the Borrower under the loan agreements between them
dated November 2, 1965 (Rural Credit Project, Loav No. 432-PH),
June 4, 1969 (Second Rural Credit Project, Loan No. 607-PH) and
June 17, 1974 (Third Rural Credit Project, Loan No. 1010-PH),
respectively.
(h) "peso" means peso in the currency of the Guarantor.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty-six million five hundred thousand dollars ($36,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of                            per cent (     %) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or shall
cause to be carried out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, administrative and financial practices.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out Part E of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to the Department of Agriculture
of the Guarantor, on the basis of arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, funds from the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Category
(5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall finance sub-loans, in
local currency, utilizing the proceeds of the Loan allocated under
Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 of this Agreement and its own resources, on the basis
of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank made between the Borrower
and each Rural Bank and Savings and Loan Association in accordance
with the Rules and Regulations.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Rural Bank and Savings and Loan Association in such manner
as: (i) to achieve the purposes of the Project; (ii) to protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; and (iii) to comply
with its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
(c) The Borrower shall cause each Rural Bank and Savings and
Loan Association: (i) to carry out its obligations under the Rules
and Regulations and the arrangements referred to in paragraph (b)
hereof; and (ii) to carry on its operations and to conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound business practices, under the
supervision of experienced and competent management, and to employ
qualified personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Technical
Support and Evaluation Unit in its Department of Rural Banks and
Savings and Loan Associations: (i) to provide central technical
support for Project implementation to the Borrower 's staff in the
field and to the staff of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan
Associations; (ii) to monitor the execution of the Project
and evaluate its results; and (iii) to assist in the development
and evaluation of other credit programs of said Department,
including short-term production credit programs.
Section 3.04. With due regard to insuring the quality of
sub-loan evaluation, the Borrower shall use its best efforts to
gradually transfer authority for said evaluation and sub-loan
approval to qualified Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 9-
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall use its best efforts to ensure that funds not less
than the equivalent of $11,000,000 of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement are used to finance
sub-projects of Small Beneficiaries.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the financing of four-wheel tractors of
more than 68 horsepower out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 of this Agreement shall be limited to not more than
1,000 such units or to a period of 18 months from the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall occur first.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall establish not later than
December 31, 1977 or such other date as the Bank shall agree and
thereafter maintain a Management Advisory Unit in its Department
of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations, with composition
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and shall appoint
to such Unit qualified and experienced senior officers.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.09. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its comments, (i) not
later than December 31, 1979, a preliminary draft of the study
referred to in Part B of the Project, and (ii) not later than
March 31, 1978, a preliminary draft of the Credit handbook
referred to in Part C of the Project.
Section 3.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Guarantor's Commission on Audit; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said Commission on
Audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (D) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Condit'ins, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Rules and Regulations shall have been suspended,
waived, amended or abrogated without the prior agreement of the
Bank; and
(b) any other provision governing the activities of the
Borrower, the Rural Banks or the Savings and Loan Associations
shall have been suspended, amended or abrogated so as to affect
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date July 11, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Central Bank of the Philippines
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:
PHILCENBANK
Manila


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Gregorio Licaros
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for               13,900,000         45% of the
four-wheel                                    amounts dis-
tractors                                      bursed
(2) Sub-loans for               15,000,000         45% of the
other purposes                                amounts dis-
bursed
(3) Consultants'                   120,000         100% of foreign
services and                                 expenditures
training                                      or 40%
(4) Service Vehicles:              160,000
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally                                  100% of local
manufactured                             expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported but                             40%
locally pro-
cured


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Civil works and                 200,000         66%
equipment under
Part E of the
Project
(6) Unallocated                   7,120,000
TOTAL    36,500,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 20 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is the continuation of the Borrower's
medium- and long-term rural credit program, consists of:
Part A:   Lending Program
The implementation of an agricultural credit operation
consisting of the provision of medium- and long-term credit by
Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations to farmers and rural
entrepreneurs to finance investments in farm mechanization, light
transportation, coastal and inland fisheries, small-scale
livestock development, and cottage and agro-industries, and the
financing of such credits by the Borrower.
Part B:   Study
The completion of a study to assess the social and economic
impact of farm mechanization in the Philippines.
Part C:   Training
The expansion of a training program for the staff of the
Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations of
the Borrower and the staff of rural banks and savings and loan
associations to improve their lending operations and the
production of a Credit Handbook.
Part D:   Vehicles
The acquisition and utilization of vehicles for the use of
field staff.


﻿- 22 -
Part E:   Agricultural Machinery Testing, Evaluation
and Standardization Project
The construction and equipping of an Agricultural Machinery
Testing, Evaluation and Standardization Project at Los Baffos.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1982
through   September 1, 1991                  1,740,000
On March 1, 1992                                  1,700,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.70%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               6.25%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen years
before maturity                               7.35%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                               8.50%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   Procurement under Sub-loans
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 of this Part A, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of Sub-loans to be procured at a reasonable price
through regular commercial channels from responsible suppliers
with adequate service facilities.
2.   All contracts for goods or services to be financed under
Sub-loans estimated to cost 10,000 pesos or more shall be
procured after solicitation of at least three offers from
responsible suppliers, provided however, that in remote areas
where supplier representation is insufficient, the Borrower shall
secure a certified statement from the financing institution that
three offers could not be obtained.
B.   Other Procurement
1.   All contracts for vehicles and equipment, and civil works,
under Parts D and E of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent
of $20,000 or more shall be procured through local competitive
bidding in accordance with the Borrower's procedures.
2.   All contracts for vehicles and equipment, and civil works,
under Parts D and E of the Project estimated to cost less than
$20,000 equivalent may be provided at a reasonable price in
accordance with the Borrower's usual procedures.


