Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/25/2010 
Report No.:  AC5343
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Indonesia 
Project ID:  P110635 
Project Name:  Aceh-Nias Livelihoods and Economic Development Program (LEDP) 
Task Team Leader:  Khairy Al-Jamal 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 9, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: June 1, 2010 
Managing Unit:  EASIS 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Crops (50%);Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry 
(28%);Animal production (10%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(10%);Public administration- Information and communications (2%) 
Theme:  Rural policies and institutions (55%);Rural markets (25%);Other rural 
development (10%);Gender (10%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Indonesia - Multi-donor TF for Aceh and North Sumatra 
8.20
8.20 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective (PDO) is to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery 
and poverty alleviation by improving the ability of the Government to work with poor 
rural households in Nias to identify, develop and sustain livelihood opportunities.  
 
The PDO will be achieved by:  
 
(i.) 
Identifying and addressing community organization, knowledge, input and 
marketing constraints to livelihood development in selected Kecamatans of Nias Island. 
The project would train and empower smallholder farmers and government staff to 
support village group-led activities in increasing farming efficiency. It would emphasize 
successful small farming business development rather than large-scale agricultural 
development.  Training to support this aim would emphasize the technical, social, 
organizational, financial, management and marketing aspects of small business.  
 
(ii.) 
Implementing agricultural and other livelihood improvement activities.  
Page  2
(iii.) 
Raising the capacity of the district (Kabupaten) governments in program 
management, monitoring and evaluation.   
 
3. Project Description 
Nias-LEDP is financed by a US$8.2 million grant from the MDF.  The program is 
designed to improve livelihoods and local economic development by (i.) empowering 
farmer/community groups to improve livelihoods, and (ii.) increasing local government 
capacity for agriculture extension.  The program will also strengthen the project 
management capacity of the Ministry of Disadvantaged Regions or KPDT.  The program 
will be implemented between 2010 -2012.  
 
Component 1: Livelihood Groups and Institutional Empowerment ($2.06 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to empower beneficiaries (livelihood groups and 
district government) to improve their capacity to acquire the technical, social, 
organizational, financial, management and marketing skills for livelihoods development 
activities. Most of the activities involve training and group facilitation, and include:  
 
(i.) 
Training for Agriculture Livelihoods Groups:  
 
(ii.) 
Training for Women#s Livelihoods Groups:  
 
(iii.)  Training and Equipment for Local Government Agriculture Services  
 
Component 2: Agricultural and Other Livelihoods Improvement ($4.50 million)  
 
Component 2 would finance implementation of program activities (set-up throughout 
Component 1) utilizing small group block grants and technical support services.  This 
component has two sub-components related to the implementation of: (i.) agriculture and 
women#s livelihoods groups# activities, and (iii.) support to local government agriculture 
services.  
 
Component 3: Management, Monitoring and Evaluation ($1.65 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to develop management and technical capacity for 
implementation of livelihoods programs on Nias within the Kabupaten and Kecamatans, 
as well as with KPDT. A consultant team will provide the necessary project 
implementation and management, livelihood support as follows:  
 
(i.) 
Program Management to support the Program Management Unit (PMU) and 
Program Steering Committees (PSCs).  The majority of consultant resources will be 
field-based with core expertise supporting 1.) monitoring and evaluation, 2.) financial 
management, 3.) safeguards, 4.) quality assurance, 5.) procurement, 6.) adherence to the 
anti-corruption action plan, and 7.) program reporting.  
 
(ii.) 
Livelihoods Support will provide the necessary technical consultants at district 
and village levels, with dual roles in group strengthening through technical assistance 
under components 1 and 2. The Monitoring and Evaluation team would be responsible 
for the elaboration of the baseline survey, monitoring surveys and impact evaluation as a 
project completion report, prior to project closure.   
 
Page  3
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Project is located in Nias Island covering Nias and South Nias Districts.   The project will 
be implemented in roughly 20 Kecamatans by farmers and women groups, using block-
grants, and supported by both local government and consultants. The emphasis will be to 
improve the livelihoods of poor rural communities by providing technical assistance, 
capacity building, and finance (through block grants) to allow communities to identify 
and implement group-based income generating activities. All proposed sub-projects will 
be located in the existing farming/plantation sites, and therefore, land acquisition is 
expected to be insignificant. The majority of the population in Nias can be considered 
indigenous therefore it is likely that this project will include IPs as beneficiaries.  With 
improved farming practices, the project is expected to improve the environmental quality 
of the land and community neighborhoods.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Indira Dharmapatni (EASIS) 
Mr Andrew Daniel Sembel (EASIS) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project will support small-scale livelihood activities, including farming, plantation 
and agricultural-related activities, to be proposed and implemented by farmers and 
women groups. Although at this point, types of sub-projects can not be identified, it is 
anticipated that they will not lead to land conversion, the destruction of environmentally 
sensitive areas, historically significant sites or other cultural resources. A number of 
potential environmental risks, however, may occur, among others, include :  
 
i.   Increased use of pesticides and fertilizers, Currently, very little pesticide or fertilizer 
is used in Nias, especially for rubber or cacao production. Use of fertilizers such as urea, 
SP-36, TSP and KCL are likely to increase, although there are alternatives, while 
biological control methods will be promoted for pest control. Increased use of pesticides 
Page  4
and fertilizers will have risks for health and safety during storage and application, 
pollution of drinking water sources, and ecological impacts. An additional screening 
criteria (negative list) will apply i.e. no procurement or application of pesticides will be 
financed by the project.  
 
ii.     Potential environmental benefits of the livelihoods component, There are potential 
positive environmental impacts if livelihoods programs include environmental programs, 
for example tree planting for watershed management or carbon sequestration.  
 
Subprojects are not expected to require involuntary resettlement or acquisition of 
significant amounts of land. Project activities are not expected to require acquisition of 
significant amounts of land and/or assets attached to the land.  Sub-projects requiring 
relocation of affected people will not be funded by the project. The farmers and women 
groups are expected to use their existing farming and land areas, and it is very unlikely 
that there will be people who will be physically displaced by any program activities.  
However, in the event that groups may require a land for common use (such as for drying 
and processing harvests, community nurseries, etc) small amounts of land, crops, trees, 
houses, or other assets may need to be acquired to allow for the most effective, efficient, 
and beneficial use of resources.  Experiences from similar projects like PNPM Rural and 
Urban, required land for the sub-projects would be obtained through any one of the 
following options:  
 
(i.) 
Direct Purchase.  Where possible the required land will be acquired through direct 
purchase based on willing buyer willing seller principle, as the first option. Negotiations 
for direct purchase would be carried-out in a public place and in transparent manner. All 
proceedings will be documented and final agreement would be signed by the negotiating 
parties in the presence of NGOs or civil society and countersigned by the village head. 
The negotiated amount will be paid the latest within three months from the date of final 
agreement of the negotiated settlement by the negotiating parties.  Timing of the payment 
will be agreed during the negotiation.  
 
(ii.) 
Voluntary Donation.  Voluntary contribution of land and/or other assets is quite 
common in Indonesian villages, assuming that an individual loses insignificant amounts 
of land.  Land donation is acceptable only if: (i.) the land donator receives direct benefit 
from the project and they are not poor people, or becoming worse-off after the land 
taking;  
 
(iii.) project affected peoples have been informed clearly of their right on compensation 
(as stated in the Operation Manual) at a public meeting, but nevertheless they are still 
willing to donate without any pressure.  
 
(iv.) 
A protocol for direct purchase and voluntary donation of land for sub-projects will 
be included in the Operations Manual. Sub-projects sponsors will be required to submit 
appropriate documents together with the sub-projects proposals to show the process to be 
used for obtaining the required land.  
 
Page  5
(v.) 
In the case that the local government is planning to acquire private land or 
community land for the purpose that is related to the project (e.g. for nursery, drying 
field, etc), it can be done through willing buyer willing seller approach if it involves land 
less than 1 Ha, or, if more than 1 Ha the Banks Policy OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary 
Resettlement will apply.  
 
The PNPM Mandiri for rural areas (KDP) has recognized that there is a risk of the 
exclusion of vulnerable groups in Nias, including indigenous people (IP) or the Isolated 
and Vulnerable (IVP) groups.  The majority of the population in Nias can be considered 
indigenous so it is likely that this project will include IPs as beneficiaries.  
 
The highly participatory nature of the project will ensure that communities would be 
able to identify if any proposed sub-project will have an impact on cultural property and 
to ensure that these activities do not adversely affect cultural property. Sub-project 
proposals will require the identification of any such activities. The project will not 
finance any sub-project that has impacts on cultural property. The LEDP works closely 
with the Nias ethnographic museum through its education component, and these activities 
will help to ensure proper identification of any impacts on cultural property.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None expected   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
None   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
In terms of direct impacts, Indonesia's environmental screening and review procedures 
will form the basis of LEDP's approach to environmental management with additional 
support and monitoring provided by the Project. For example, in addition to Government 
of Indonesias environmental procedures, the project requires a 'negative list' to 
disqualifying inappropriate livelihood activities or sub-projects from the outset. Any 
adverse environmental impacts (soil erosion or increased use of pesticides and fertilizers) 
under this project are expected to be limited and highly localized, and can be readily 
mitigated through the projects negative list, or through environmental management plans.  
The project will utilize and apply existing environmental screening forms that are utilized 
by PNPM Rural /KDP.  This method is already tested for handling potential negative 
impacts for projects of this type, through application of a negative list and impact check-
list forms.  
 
Any sub-project involving IPs or IVPs will carry out free, prior, and informed 
consultations with the IPs or IVPs and obtain broad community support, including non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) interested in supporting IPs or IVPs.  This will be 
Page  6
conducted at all stages of the project cycle, from the sub-proposal preparation (planning 
stage), implementation, and post activity operation. In areas where project activities 
involve IPs or IVPs, the project will follow the IP or IVP planning framework developed 
in accordance OP/BP 4.10 and its implementation guidelines in the project Operation 
Manuals. The project framework ensures that IPs or IVPs (including women, low level 
sub-clans) participate in decision making throughout project planning, implementation 
and evaluation, and ensures that they receive benefits equal to the non-IP or non-IVP 
beneficiaries, and tailored to their needs and cultural values. All IP or IVP related 
activities in the project will be documented by the coordinator of the field-based experts 
and be consolidated in a monthly report by the environmental/social safeguard specialist 
of the Nias-based PMU.  
 
In the case a sub-project needs to acquire land, options of schemes for obtaining it 
should be made in full consultation and agreement within the group members and the 
land owners. The project will adopt a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework in accordance with the OP/BP 4.12. Implementation guidelines of this 
framework for the sub-projects will be elaborated in the project Operation Manuals. All 
land acquisition in the project will be documented by the coordinator of the field-based 
experts and be consolidated in a monthly report by the environmental/social safeguard 
specialist of the Nias-based PMU.  The project recognizes the complex land tenure 
arrangements in Nias, and this will be accommodated and designed for during 
implementation, and the safeguards and IP framework.  
 
Implementation arrangements will consist of: (i) a Program Steering Committee at the 
central government level comprising of officers from Bappenas and KPDT; (ii) a Nias-
based Program Management Unit (PMU) who will be responsible for project 
coordination and implementation#including among others safeguards. It will be the 
responsibility of the PMU#s Environmental and Social Management Officer to develop 
the Environmental Management Plan and to address social issues, with the assistance of 
the environmental and social expert consultant. All activities concerning environmental 
management and social issues will be carried out in close co-operation with relevant 
agencies of local government, including the local Environmental Impact Agency, and the 
communities benefitted from the project, as this is a highly participatory project.  
 
Capacity of Nias-based PMU.  The Project is aware that the capacity of local 
government staff in handling environmental and social safeguard issues are relatively 
weak. The Nias-based PMU#s capacity may also weak in this subject. Sufficient 
resources are included in the technical assistance of the project to support the PMU 
implementing the environmental and social safeguards framework, including the hiring of 
environmental and social safeguards specialists in the advisory consultancy, and training 
for the PMU and local government staff as well as village-based consultants.  
 
It is notable that a number of BAPEDDA staff (3 from Nias district and 4 from Nias 
Selatan) has received intensive training on environmental management in Medan. Nias 
Selatan District has recently established an environmental management division, but at 
Page  7
present they have very little capacity to undertake any work, owing to a lack of 
experience and equipment, despite their enthusiasm. Nias District has not established any 
environmental management department.  
 
In order to ensure full implementation of the EMF, IP Planning Framework,  and 
LARPF, LEDP will provide a program of environmental training and institutional 
capacity building to PMU and Extension team/consultants.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
At the project management side, the PMU, PMU secretariat, local dinas/agencies are the 
main key players in the project. The PMU was the one who drafted the EMF, LARPF, 
and IPPF with the guidance from the Bank. Prior to project implementation, these 
environmental and social safeguards frameworks including the Project Manual will be 
socialized to all project management staff including the extension consultants.  
 
The main key stakeholders of the project are ultimately the farmers and women groups 
as beneficiaries. As this is a participatory project, consultation on environmental and 
social issues and mitigation measures will be done at the farmers/women groups level 
throughout the sub-project cycle, i.e. since in the planninguntil the post implementation 
stage of of proposed sub-project.  
 
The frameworks will be made available to the public through the Bank's Project 
Information Centers in Jakarta and Infoshop, and together with the project manuals they 
will be made available, by the PMU to the farmers/women groups and the dinas 
preparing proposals.  The frameworks and Project Manual will be uploaded in the 
implementing agency#s (KPDT=Ministry of Disadvantaged Areas) website as well.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/09/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/20/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/22/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/09/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/20/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/22/2010 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/09/2010 
 
Page  8
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/20/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/22/2010 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Page  9
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Andre A. Bald 
04/13/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Andrew Daniel Sembel 
04/13/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Indira Dharmapatni 
04/13/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Sonia Hammam 
04/22/2010 
Comments:   
