                                             Document of
                                            The World Bank
                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                  Report No.: 543934)




                                PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                                  ON A

                              PROPOSED MULTI DONOR FUND FOR
                                 ACEH AND NORTH SUMATRA

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.2 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                               FOR THE

      NIAS ISLANDS LIVELIHOODS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                                (NIAS-LEDP)


                                              July 23,20 10




Indonesia Sustainable Development Unit
East Asia and the Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                             Document of
                                            The World Bank
                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                  Report No.: 543934)




                                PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                                  ON A

                              PROPOSED MULTI DONOR FUND FOR
                                 ACEH AND NORTH SUMATRA

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.2 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                               FOR THE

      NIAS ISLANDS LIVELIHOODS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                                (NIAS-LEDP)


                                              July 23,20 10




Indonesia Sustainable Development Unit
East Asia and the Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 24,20 10)

                           Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                               IDR1,OOO = US$O.1106
                                   US$1 = IDR9,040

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1'' - December 3 1St


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AARD         Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
ADB          Asian Development Bank
AMDAL        Analisis Dampak Lingkungan (Environmental Assessment)
AusAID       Australian Agency for International Development
BBP          Balai Benih Pembatuan (Seed Support Unit)
BIPPKIPP     District Center for Information and Extension
BPP          Agricultural Extension Office at Sub-district Level
BRR          Badan Pelaksana Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi (Executive Agency for
             Rehabilitation and Reconstruction)
Camat        Sub-district or Cluster
CDD          Community Driven Development
DRM          Disaster Risk Management
DAFEP        Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Desa         Village
DINAS        Local Authority
EA           Environmental Assessment
FEAT1        Farmer Empowerment through Agricultural Technology and Information Project
GO1          Government of Indonesia
ILO          International Labor Organization
IPM          Integrated Pest Management
IREP         Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program
Kabupaten    District
Kecamatan    Sub-district
Kimpraswil   Pemukiman Prasarang Wilayah (District level Public Works Department)
KPDT         Kementrian Negara Pembangunan Daerah Tertinggal (State Ministry for the
             Development of Disadvantaged Areas)
LSC          Local Steering Committee
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MDF          Multi-donor Fund
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PDCS         Planning, Design, Construction and Supervision
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMC          Program Management Consultant
PMU              Program Management Unit
PSC              Program Steering Committee
PRA              Participatory Rural Appraisal
RACB             Rural Access and Capacity Building Program
TA               Technical Assistance
UNESCO           United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
WB               World Bank




                               Vice President:           James W. Adams, EAPVP
                     Country Director (Acting):          Shubham Chaudhuri, EACIF
                             Sector Managers:            Franz R. Drees-Gross, EASIS
                                                         Vijay Jagannathan, EASIN
                             Task Team Leader:           Khairy Al-Jamal, EASIS


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                           INDONESIA
         Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program (Nias-LEDP)

                                            CONTENTS


                                                                                 Page

A.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                               1
     1, Country and Sector Issues                                                  1
     2. Rationale for Bank and MDF Involvement                                     2
     3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes                   3
B.   PROGRAM DESCRIPTION                                                           3
     1. Lending Instrument                                                         3
     2. Program development objectives and key indicators                          3
     3. Program components                                                         4
     4. Lessons learned and reflected in project design                            8
     5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejections                         9
C.   IMPLEMENTATION                                                                10
     1. Partnership arrangements                                                   10
     2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                              10
     3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults                               12
     4. Sustainability                                                             12
     5. Critical risks and possible controversial issues                           13
     6. Grant conditions and covenants                                             14
D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY                                                             14
     1. Economic and Financial Analysis                                            14
     2. Technical                                                                  14
     3. Fiduciary                                                                  15
     4. Social                                                                     16
     5. Environment                                                                17
     6. Safeguard policies                                                         18
     7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness                                            19




                                                   i
Annex 1:    Country and Sector or Program Background                           20
Annex 2:    Major Related Project Financed By The Bank and/or Other Agencies   27
Annex 3:    Results Framework and Monitoring                                   32
Annex 4:    Detailed Project Description                                       37
Annex 5:    Project Costs                                                      48
Annex 6:    Implementation Arrangements                                        49
Annex 7:    Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                 52
Annex 8:    Procurement                                                        62
Annex 9:    Economic and Financial Analysis                                    67
Annex 10:   Safeguard Policy Issues                                            70
Annex 11:   Project Processing                                                 81
Annex 12:   Documents in the Project File                                      82
Annex 13:   Statement of Loans and Credits                                     83
Annex 14:   Country at a glance                                                86
Annex 15    Governance and Accountability Framework                            88
Annex 16:   Map of the Project Area                                            90




                                              ii
                                                        INDONESIA
             NIAS ISLANDS LIVELIHOODS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NIAS-LEDP)
                                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                                                 EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC


    Date: July 23,2010                                      Team Leader: Khairy Al-Jamal
    Country Director (Acting) : Shubham Chaudhuri           Sectors: Crops (50%); Public administration- Agriculture,
    Sector Director: John Roome                             fishing and forestry (28%); Animal production (10%); General
    Sector Manager: Franz R. Drees-Gross                    agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%); Public
    Project ID: P110635                                     administration- Information and communications (2%)
                                                            Themes: Rural policies and institutions (55%); Rural markets
I                                                           (25%); Other rural development (10%); Gender (10%)
    Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
                                                Projec Financing Data
    [ ] Loan     [ 3 Credit     [ X ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ 3 Other:




    Source                                          Local           Foreign                                  Total
    Borrower                                           0.00            0.00                                     0.00
    MDF                                                0.00            8.20                                     8.20
    Total:                                             0.00            8.20                                     8.20




    FY                        2010                  2011         2012            2013
    Annual                    0.00                   3.10        4.50            0.60
    Cumulative                0.00                   3.10         7.60            8.20



    Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant (Re$ PAD A.3)                      No
    Does the project require any exception from Bank policies (Ref PAD D. 7)                                No
    Does the project include any critical risk rated "substantial" or "high" (Re$ PAD C.5)                  Yes
    Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation (Re$ PAD D. 7)             Yes
local economic development. The program will be implemented by the Ministry of Disadvantaged Regions (KPDT
between 2010 -2012. The project development objective is to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery by improvinl
the ability of the Government to work with poor rural households in Nias to identify, develop and sustain livelihool
opportunities. The objective will be pursued through the following components:

Component 1 : Livelihood Groups and Institutional Empowerment (US$1.95 million)
The objective of this component is to empower beneficiaries (livelihood groups and district government) to improvl
their capacity to acquire the technical, social, organizational, financial, management and marketing skills fo
livelihoods development activities. Most of the activities involve training and group facilitation, and include:

    1. Training for Agriculture Livelihoods Groups:
    2. Training for Women's Livelihoods Groups:
    3. Training and Equipment for Local Government Agriculture Services

Component 2: Agricultural and Other Livelihoods Improvement (US$4.60 million)
Component 2 would finance implementation of program activities (set-up throughout Component 1) utilizing smal
group Community Support grants and technical support services. This component has two sub-components related tl
the implementation of: (i) agriculture and women's livelihoods groups' activities, and (ii) support to local governmen
agriculture services.

Component 3: Management. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$l.65 million)
The objective of this component is to develop management and technical capacity for implementation of livelihood
programs in Nias within the Kabupaten/Kota and Kecamatans, as well as with KPDT. A consultant team will providl
ihe necessary project implementation, program management, i d technical livelihoods support
Safeguard policies triggered by the project (Ref PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10). The project triggers Environment0
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10). The projec
is classified as category B.
Significant nonstandard conditions, if any (Ref PAD C.7)
Board Presentation - None

Loadcredit Effectiveness Conditions - These are: (i) the Recipient has adopted the Project Operations Manua
                                                                                                                     c
acceptable to the Recipient and the World Bank; (ii) the KPDT shall have issued a request for proposal, satisfactory t
the Recipient and the Bank, for program management and implementation consultants; and (iii) the execution an(
delivery of the Grant Agreement on behalf of the Recipient would be duly authorized or ratified by all necessq
governmental action.

Covenants applicable to project implementation - These are: (i) The KPDT secretariat, PMU, and PSC arc
established, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) Sub-project Operations Manual, covering paymen
verification for subprojects as agreed by the Bank prior to disbursement of Community Support grants; (iii) The Fh
consultant (through the firm) will be mobilized prior to disbursement of the Community Support grant; and (iv
Individual financial management consultants with term of reference acceptable to the Recipient and the Bank shall br
engaged at the central Project implementation level by the date which is not later than the date which is one month afte
the effectiveness date to ensure that he/she will assist the project on preparing the sub-grant manual




                                                            iv
A. Strategic Context and Rationale

1. Country and Sector Issues

1.     Nias Reconstruction. The December 2004 tsunami and subsequent March 2005 earthquake
caused severe damage to the island of Nias, totaling US$392 million, equivalent to 108 percent of
the island's gross regional domestic product (GRDP). Over 13,000 houses were destroyed, and
transportation infrastructure was badly damaged (12 ports were destroyed and over 1,000 km of
roads were impassable).

2.    The Government of Indonesia's (GoI) Agency for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation in
Aceh and Nias (BRR), together with local and provincial governments, donors and NGOs made
significant progress rebuilding damaged assets and restoring the local economy. The transport
network is in better condition than before the disaster, and is a key for building Community
Support for continued economic recovery.

3.     Post-BRR and Low-Capacity Context in Nias. The BRR's mandate ended in April 2009, so
now local and provincial governments continue the reconstruction agenda. The current capacity
of the district civil service in Nias is low by country standards and within the Province of North
Sumatra. Unlike Aceh, Nias will not benefit from special autonomy funds - and Nias still
receives the lowest per capita central government allocations in the province and roughly half the
national average.1 Given the severe capacity constraints, continued support to local government
and directly to communities is required to ensure the reconstruction agenda continues. The recent
`split' of the district of Nias into three kabupatens and one kota will add to capacity constraints -
now there are five districts in Nias Islands, three newly formed, with a diluted civil service.

4.     Economic and social indicators in Nias are among the lowest in North Sumatra, and lag
national averages. Nias' poverty rate (32%) is double the national average (16%). Health and
education indicators are also low. Only 15 percent of households in Nias and 8 percent in Nias
Selatan have access to clean water. Connection rates to the PLN grid in Nias (33 percent) and
Nias Selatan (25 percent) are the lowest in North Sumatra (70 percent), and less than half the
national average (65 percent). Contributing factors include, i.) Nias' remote location, ii.)
restricted markets and information access, iii.) weak local government capacity, iv.) low levels of
public investment, and v.) poor access to services.

5. Nias is a rural society dependent on subsistencefarming, which accounts for 42 percent of
the Gross Regional Domestic Product (GRDP) and employs 87 percent of the workforce
(compared to 45 percent of the labor force nationally). The major crops by planted area are
rubber (60,000 ha), coconut (60,000 ha), rice (27,000 ha), and cocoa (7,000 ha). Farming is by
smallholders, and the unavailability of large tracts of land precludes larger plantation practices for
crops like oil palm or other estate crops.

6.    Agricultural yields are low f o r all crops in Nias relative to comparable
benchmarks. Average rice yields (2.5 tha) are half the national average. Cocoa
productivity is on par with the low national average of about 0.8tha caused by insect
attack (Cocoa pod borer), little or no fertilizer input on poor soils, and very poor genetic
stock .with almost universal use of unselected local seedlings. Post harvest grading to
1
 Nias and Nias Selatan's per-capita transfers from central government in 2006 (Rp 497,000 and 295,000 respectively)
are the lowest in North Sumatra (Rp702,OOO) and below the national average (772,000). From, Managing Resources to
Build Back and Create a Better Future for Nias: Nias Public Expenditure Analysis 2007. World Bank.

                                                         1
remove pod borer affected beans or to ferment the best quality beans are inadequate.
Rubber productivity (0.6 t/ha) is particularly poor compared to yields of lSt/ha achieved under
plantation culture on Sumatra. Further, deliberate post-harvest adulteration of latex (with rocks,
soil vegetation and water) is widespread in an attempt to increase marketed weight, but actually
results in price discounts of up to 30%. Livestock production (pigs, poultry) is popular,
particularly among women, but capital is a constraint, as is poor knowledge of disease, parasite
control, and improved feeding strategies.

7.    There is considerable scope (through training and improved rural access) to improve
productivity and incomes of smallholderfarmers. The average farm size (1.5 ha) is still adequate
to achieve reasonable livelihoods if yields and quality can be improved. There are an estimated
 100,000 farms in Nias, and field observations show that there are large areas of idle land on these
smallholder farms that could potentially be used for new planting of rubber and cocoa.

8.   Nias ' poor rural access remains a key development bottleneck creating significant market
and production inefficiencies, and limiting access to health, education, and other social services.
The majority of the population lives in remote and disbursed settlements, without access by 4-
wheeled vehicles. Road network conditions are made worse by the extreme climatic conditions
(260 days of rain, 2,600 mm annually), which turn unsealed roads into mud trails passable only
by foot for the majority of the year. The BRR completed major portions of the network, but
access remains severely restricted.

2. Rationale for Bank and MDF Involvement

9.    The World Bank, as partner agency for Nias-LEDP, will draw on its extensive and broad
experience (in rural development, agriculture, infrastructure, and community driven development)
in Indonesia and globally.

10. The Bank brings international experience and lessons learned in the implementation of
projects of this type, where there is a need to strengthen the capacity of government agencies to
provide public goods, parallel to adopting improved technology by small rural households. The
Bank also has long and diverse experience working with public sector institutions, as well as in
assessing public versus private sector roles in operations world-wide. In an operation of this
nature, involving smallholders, there is little initial incentive for private sector participation.

11. The Bank has experience in Indonesia with similar rural and community development
projects (Farmer Empowerment Through Agricultural Technology and Information Project,
FEATI, and the Kecamatan Development Program, KDP etc), which serve as the basis for Nias-
LEDP's participatory approach. These projects are focused on either information shortages
(FEATI) or on the provision of community level infrastructure and organization (KDP, etc).
Nias-LEDP adopts a focused livelihoods approach (with comprehensive technical and financial
support) to address low incomes among poor rural households in a low public sector capacity
environment.

12. Nias-LEDP addresses the core themes of the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) -
to invest in institutions to improve effectiveness and accountability. The project develops
institutional capacity throughout the project cycle at the national, district, and community levels.
It is also consistent with the CPS imperative for poverty reduction and sustainable resource
management, particularly in poor rural areas.



                                                 2
13. The MDF supports similar economic development programs in Aceh (Economic
Development Financing Facility) - but Nias cannot access these funds or borrow. MDF support is
a key in supporting GoI's agenda to reduce regional disparities and provide targeted support for
economic recovery in Nias. This agenda is fully consistent with the mandate of the MDF and its
role to support the Go1 to carry-out priority reconstruction programs (guided by the Go1 Master
Plan).  '
14. Furthermore, establishing an enabling environment for improved economic development
and livelihoods will take time. The Nias-LEDP program is consistent with the operations
mandate of the MDF in Aceh and Nias -which supports projects until 2012.

3. Higher level objectives of the program

15. The higher-level objectives of Nias-LEDP are to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery
by creating an enabling environment for improved livelihoods and human development in the
Nias islands. Nias-LEDP will contribute to the economic development of communities affected
by the tsunami and earthquake.

16. The project is fully consistent with the focus of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
Indonesia: `investing in Indonesia's institutions' by improving the capacity of national and local
government, including community groups. It also contributes to the core CPS areas of
engagement:

            i. Community development and social protection, to reduce poverty by improving
            livelihoods and service delivery, and decrease pockets of vulnerabilities to strengthen
            inclusiveness.

            ii. Private Sector Development by increasing transparency and efficiency of linkages
            among smallholders and markets.

            iii. Infrastructure, to increase the level and efficiency of investments.

B. Program Description

1. Lending Instrument

17. Nias-LEDP is financed by a US$ 8.2 million grant from the MDF. The program will be
implemented between 20 10 -20 12.

2. Program Development Objective and Key Indicators

18. The project development objective (PDO) is to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery
by improving the ability of the Government to work with poor rural households in Nias to
identify, develop and sustain livelihood opportunities.



* Nias-LEDP is aligned with all pillars of the GoI's Master Plan and reconstruction policies to support a post-disaster
emergency rehabilitation and reconstruction program in Indonesia. The program's approaches directly support
reconstruction of (i) communities, (ii) the economy, (iii) infrastructure, and (iv) governance.


                                                          3
19.   The PDO will be achieved by:

        i. Identifying and addressing community organization, knowledge, input and
        marketing constraints to livelihood development in selected Kecamatans of Nias Island.
        The project would train and empower smallholder farmers and government staff to
        support village group-led activities in increasing farming efficiency. It would emphasize
        successful small farming business development rather than large-scale agricultural
        development. Training to support this aim would emphasize the technical, social,
        organizational, financial, management and marketing aspects of small business.

        ii.   Implementing agricultural and other livelihood improvement activities.

        iii. Raising the capacity of the district (Kabupaten and Kota) governments in program
        management, monitoring and evaluation.

20.   The key indicators (outputs) in the Results Framework are:

        i. Training of at least 5 Kabupatemota staff (per district) in program management,
        and monitoring and evaluation skills to be able to assist communities

        ii. At least 25% of livelihood groups retain technical and group organizational skills,
        and are accessing information, finance, and markets resulting in improved livelihoods

        iii. At least 5 KabupatenKota Dinas Pertanian staff (per district) have acquired specific
        technical skills in tree crops nursery management and fertilizer handling and distribution.
        At least 3 KabupatenKota seedling nurseries are established, introducing improved
        rubber and cocoa varieties, with sustainable operating models

        iv. Increased rice yields to 3.3 tons3 per hectare in targeted groups through introduction
        of improved seeds of high-yielding varieties and fertilizer use.

21. These outcomes would be measured using a combination of baseline and monitoring
surveys conducted by field consultants on a routine basis by an M&E team leader supported by
four M&E field staff.

3. Program Component Description

22. Program activities are focused to support local government and community groups. All
finds for the program activities (consultants, supplies, equipment, training and study tours) would
be channeled through the central level (KPDT PMU). The PMU will be primarily based in the
field in Nias to better support district governments and community beneficiaries.

Component 1: Livelihood Groups and Institutional Empowerment (USS1.95 million)

23. The objective of this component is to empower beneficiaries (livelihood groups and district
governments) to improve their capacity to acquire the technical, social, organizational, financial,
management and marketing skills for livelihoods development activities. Most of the activities
involve training and group facilitation, and include:


 This would represent about a 30% increase over the current average yields of 2.5 tha.

                                                    4
        i. Training for Aciculture Livelihoods Groups. In social, technical, marketing, and
        financial aspects of livelihood development for up to 50 mixed gender groups (up to 40
        households per group) for agricultural development. These groups would, preferably, be
        located mainly in the poorest and most isolated villages and would participate in farming
        systems development involving rubber improvement, cocoa rehabilitation and replanting,
        plus livestock breeding activities for income improvement and manure supply, handling
        and application. About 25 individual consultants (agriculture extension technical experts)
        would be fielded, with each consultant assigned to a cluster of 2 groups. They would also
        provide both training and physical and financial monitoring for Component 3. The
        individual consultants/facilitators are specialized in group formatiodorganization and
        would be recruited at an early stage to accelerate program socialization and group
        formation before the mobilization of the primary consultancy firm. In addition, the
        individual field-based consultants will also support the monitoring and evaluation of the
        groups' progress, and be an initial point of contact for communities to lodge and resolve
        complaints.

        ii. Training. for Women's Livelihoods Groups: in social, technical, marketing, and
        financial aspects of livelihood development for up to 50 women groups (up to 40
        households per group). Women's groups are specifically included because they offer an
        opportunity to develop a wider range of livelihood opportunities in addition to primary
        production (retail, processing, marketing, business skills transfer). In addition, cultural
        factors favor more focused training for women's groups in order for them to overcome
        any social constraints to mixing with males. A wider diversity of opportunities will in
        turn enhance resilience of incomes against economic and disaster related stress.

        About 10 consultants/ technical coordinators would be hired to work with women's
        groups (under similar terms of reference to mixed groups), each assigned to organize and
        train a cluster of 5 groups. The consultant technical coordinators will have skills in
        organization and livelihoods development, with an emphasis on agriculture. A menu of
        options for livelihood activities will be provided to the groups - the technical consultant
        coordinators may draw on the expertise and pooled resources from the consultant team to
        address selected activities where they as individuals may not be subject matter specialists.
        The field-based technical coordinators will also support monitoring and evaluation, and
        be an initial point of contacts for communities for lodging and resolving complaints.

        iii. Training. and Eauiument for Local Government Amiculture Services staff to
        facilitate further involvement for activities beyond the project life. The component will
        provide assistance to KabupatenKota Governments in the implementation of an
        agricultural support services program to the rice, livestock, and tree crops sub-sectors
        under Component 2. The assistance will involve training in program development and
        management, selection of target areas, balancing activities to improve gender equity, and
        coordination of supply of foundation and commercial rice seeds and appropriate fertilizer.
        It would also assist with livestock vaccination.

Component 2: Agricultural and Other Livelihoods Improvement (USS4.60 million)

24. Component 2 would finance implementation of program activities (set-up through
Component 1) utilizing small group Community Support grants and technical support services.
This component has two sub-components related to the implementation of: (i.) agriculture and
women's livelihoods groups' activities, and (iii.) support to local government agriculture services.


                                                 5
Sub-component 1. Implementation of Amiculture and Women's Livelihoods Group Activities

25. This sub-component will implement activities in (i.) 50 agriculture livelihoods groups and
(ii.) 50 women's livelihoods groups - each group composed of 40 households. A contingency
amount is included in the budget, to allow for creation of additional groups if feasible. This
component addresses the issue of low productivity and poor post harvest processing and market
prices (for rubber, cocoa, rice, and livestock), and is focused on livelihood improvement goals,
rather than area targets for replanting. The component will provide support to groups for
marketing, on and off Nias.

26. Each livelihood group (agriculture or women's groups) would apply for a small grant
(US$2,500: disbursed in two tranches) used against menu of activities in value added through
cocoa, rubber, and livestock improvements (other livelihoods are included). The aim is to
promote ownership of the activities and the use of farming systems approaches to facilitate
sustainable agriculture practices through mixed crop/livestock systems. Small livelihood groups
would also be used to address both the low social status of women in Nias and their ability to
develop innovative income generation activities involving both production and value added.
There should also be less risk of elite capture in such groups.

27. The emphasis and use of the Community Support grant is to complement training activities
to improve knowledge and practices and is less focused on the process of group formation,
community governance, and administration of the Community Support-grant, as are other
Community Driven Development (CDD) platforms. Modeled after the Oxfam livelihoods
program (successfully implemented in Nias) -the project uses a `farmer-field school approach'
with Community Support grants to supply inputs to enhance training activities. The formation of
livelihood groups through the project is expected to increase the exchange of knowledge and
ideas within the community, improve social networks (for growers, sellers, and buyers), increase
economies of scale for input purchases and post-harvest handling - as well as have spillover
demonstration affects to individuals outside of the established groups. Meeting the development
objectives does not require the long-term sustainability of the farmer or women's groups. Project
beneficiaries may choose to adopt and continue with the benefits acquired from group activities
(and are expected to), but the training will also ensure beneficiaries develop appropriate skills to
improve individual livelihoods.

28. Unlike other CDD block-grant projects, allocation of grant resources is not based on
competition for funds between competing groups. For Nias-LEDP, once groups are established
and satisfactorily demonstrate their commitment to participate in (and adopt) training practices,
and show sufficient organization and capacity - the field-based technical trainer will support the
groups to develop and implement their proposals for demonstration livelihood activities
supported by the Community Support-grant. Furthermore, the field-based consultants will help
organize the groups and facilitate training for basic skills required for the groups to administer the
Community Support-grant. This approach (which is less administratively intensive and
cumbersome than other Community Support-grant models) is appropriate for Nias, given the
social dynamics, limited capacity, and time to implement the program. Additional details on
Community Support grants are included in Annex 4.

Sub-component 2. Support to Local Government Agriculture Services.

29. This sub-component will strengthen the agricultural support services of the
Kabupatemota Government to: (i.) develop improved rice food security, (ii.) develop skills in
nursery management for tree crops, (iii.) improve agriculture diversification, and (iv.) strengthen

                                                  6
support services (e.g. veterinary medicine supply via small cold chains, marketing linkages, etc).
All activities will be supported by Nias-LEDP consultants, and material support (purchase of
seeds, equipment, supplies, etc) is provided by the central level PMU (project funds are not in the
local government budget).

30. The primary activity is a rice intensification and improvement program through the local
government, supporting Kelompok Tani (lead farmers). Consultants will support the technical
and logistics tasks of supplying foundation seed of high-yield varieties and fertilizer inputs. The
fresh seed developed in the first year would be distributed to rice-producing households in the
second year, along with a `trial bag' of NPK 15:15:15 and urea fertilizer to expose farmers to the
benefits available from fertilizer. A total of 10,000 ha, and approximately 10,000 farmers in 50
villages would benefit from improved seed over 2 years. The emphasis would be on selecting
poorer farmers who would not otherwise have access to the benefits of soil amelioration, which
the inputs would provide.

3 1. Other sub-component activities include training (supported by consultants) and material
support to establish district managed tree crop nurseries. Still other sub-component activities
would be used to develop opportunities to support livestock and crop activities where there are no
private sector suppliers, or where village level services could be developed (e.g. village vets,
community tree crop nurseries) and to improve timeliness of supply. Given the growth in
participatory extension, support would also be provided to Dinas staff to provide information on
sources of advice and services outside government as in the Farmer Empowerment Through
Agricultural Technology and Information project (FEATI) (ongoing through 20 12).

32. In addition, Sub-component 2 includes budget (US$l50,000) for the PMU to support
special studies, trainings, activities, etc (each activity limited to US$50,000). These activities will
address ad-hoc program needs (for activities supporting livelihoods not addressed through other
components) arising during program implementation.

Component 3: Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (USH.65 million)

33. The objective of this component is to develop management and technical capacity for
implementation of livelihoods programs in Nias within the Kabupatemota and Kecamatans, as
well as with KPDT. A consultant team will provide the necessary project implementation and
management as well as livelihood support as follows:

        i. Program Management to support the Program Management Unit (PMU) and
        Program Steering Committees (PSCs). The majority of consultant resources will be field-
        based with core expertise supporting i.) monitoring and evaluation, ii.) financial
        management, iii.) safeguards, iv.) quality assurance, v.) procurement, vi.) adherence to
        the anti-corruption action plan, and vii.) program reporting.

        ii. Livelihoods Support will provide the necessary technical consultants at district and
        village levels, with dual roles in group strengthening through technical assistance under
        components 1 and 2. The Monitoring and Evaluation team would be responsible for the
        elaboration of the baseline survey, monitoring surveys and impact evaluation as a project
        completion report, prior to project closure.

34. Consultants will work under a Project Management Unit (PMU), which is considered
appropriate due to the low capacity of existing local government management, technical and
financial systems.

                                                  7
4. Lessons learned and reflected in project design

35. The project design benefits from the experience of numerous rural development,
reconstruction, and community driven development projects - globally, and in Indonesia and
Nias.

36. The project utilizes the design of existing Bank CDD programs in Indonesia, albeit with
emphasis primarily on livelihood development rather than inftastructure. The key lessons learned
from the Bank's CDD and reconstruction programs which have been applied in the design include
the following:

        i. Nias presents challenges in implementation due to a range of social constraints,
        (hierarchy, low status of women, past conflicts), isolation, low capacity in local
        government, poor logistics and communications, above and beyond the lingering impacts
        from the earthquake itself. Nias requires robust field-based supervision arrangements, and
        often longer implementation periods to achieve quality results.

        ii. Socialization of the selection process and development of village cooperation
        through training are key and must precede implementation. The project must be
        supported by "facilitators" with social, technical and financial skills.

        iii. Retention of good facilitators can be encouraged by recognizing that financial and
        other incentives are needed in challenging conditions such as Nias. For this project, the
        consultant facilitator's take-home pay would be fixed at a set minimum prior to
        consultant contract bidding.

       iv. Geographic isolation must be factored into the choice of activities, recognizing that
       isolated communities may receive less supervision and will therefore require a simpler
       mix of activities.

37. Nias-LEDP benefits from two agricultural sector projects in Indonesia - both working
through community groups, designed to address information shortages in rural areas, and to
improve livelihoods through value added production, marketing, and quality assurance.

       i. The Famer Empowerment through Agricultural Technology and Information Project
       (FEATI, 2007- present) uses similar group organization methodologies to avoid elite
       capture, ensure women's participation, and promote equity based on village choices of
       suitable proposals for grant funding. FEATI also promotes higher-level farmer groups at
       sub-district and district levels, and provides funding to support District Agriculture
       Extension to support group facilitation and provide technical assistance.

       ii. The Decentralized Agriculture and Forestry Extension Project (DAFEP 1999-2004)
       put in place the legislation allowing direct transfers from the MoF to farmer group bank
       accounts. Further, group funds were better accounted for by requiring female and male
       signatures, and management by elected committee.

38. The design and proposed activities under the Nias-LEDP have been field-tested and proven
to have sustainable impacts, based on smaller interventions conducted in Nias.



                                               8
        i. Demonstration areas of cocoa under an Oxfam livelihoods project (similar to Nias-
        LEDP, but smaller in scope) showed that yield increases of 0.4t/ha are possible, and that
        farmers are keen to adopt new knowledge on crop improvement. Twenty functioning
        women's groups were formed thiough Oxfam, have organized finance and administration
        systems, and are eager to participate in the project.

        ii. A UNDP pilot also demonstrated improved seed and fertilizer inputs can have a
        major impact on rice productivity, increasing yields to levels of up to 7t/ha.

39.   More general lessons learned and adopted in the Nias-LEDP design include:

        i. Nias farmers are risk averse or constrained to adopt resource-intensive practices.
        Agriculture programs in Nias that required heavy inputs, or were a marked departure
        from existing practices, required additional support and time to prove sustainable.
        Programs adopting low-risk approaches (less inputs, and improving current traditional
        practices) have largely been successhl, and would benefit firther from follow-up
        interventions throughout several crop cycles.

        ii. There is limited potential for adopting larger plantation style practices (due to
        unavailability of large tracts of land, economies of scale required for crops like oil palm,
        capacity, etc) thus this program focuses exclusively on improving existing smallholder
        practices.

        iii. Nias-LEDP addresses sustainability, regarding the ability of poor farmers to pay for
        inputs in the medium term after project completion. By starting with simple interventions
        (such as better rice seed, pruning and grafting in cocoa, etc) the project allows gradual
        improvement suited to a longer-term process later financed by farmers from yield and
        price improvement. Nias-LEDP also demonstrates the benefits of inputs to build
        demand.

        iv. There is a premium to operate in Nias (due to logistics and other factors), which
        must be addressed in cost estimates for goods and services, and procurement packaging.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

40. Provincial or Local Governments as Implementing Agencies. Given the limited time
frame, capacity constraints, and complicated arrangements required to implement and disburse
through two local governments the Go1 expressed a preference for using KPDT as the
implementing agency, while involving provincial and local governments (though a local steering
committee). The project team judged this to be the best approach.

4 1. Promoting Larger-scale `Plantation' Practices. Nias farmers traditionally cultivate rubber
through systems of inter-cropping, a practice characterized as `forest rubber farming". Yields are
low, but the practice is a safety net, providing diverse crops and sources of income for
smallholder farmers. Several barriers prevent major shifts from traditional practices, including (i.)
farmers' inability to absorb income loss during replanting (ii.) availability of large tracts of land,
and (iii.) limited external support from extension services, private sector, or cooperatives. The
current program approach (to improve existing cultivation practices) is believed most beneficial
for smallholder farmers in Nias, and will not have the environmental or social impacts associated
with conversion to mono-culture plantations practices.


                                                  9
42. Inclusion of Additional Livelihood Sub-sectors: There is demand to support other sectors;
fisheries, tourism, health, nutrition, and information communications technology (ICT). Though
justified, program resources are focused on, but not limited to, the established agriculture
products that (i.) contribute most to the Nias economy and to food security, (ii.) are cultivated by
the majority of the population; and (iii.) are located in `economic clusters' to increase efficiency
of program delivery.

C. Implementation

1. Partnership Arrangements

43. International Labor Organization The E O implemented Nias Rural Access and Capacity
Building program (RACB) (funded through the MDF) will increase rural access through
improvements (to an all weather and low-maintenance design standard) and expansion of the
rural road network in Nias. The majority of roads improved through the program are existing
foot trails, and un-surfaced district and sub-district roads. All work will improve access to
markets and social services. Further, the L O investments will be implemented in the same
economic clusters as Nias-LEDP. Given the RACB's focus on improving and targeting the
overall network and maximizing the population served, RACB will have positive impacts in the
same communities where LEDP is implemented.

44. Both programs are operationally independent - neither requires the other to achieve its
development objectives. While both are funded by the MDF, LEDP is implemented on-budget
through KPDT, and RACB directly through the L O . The two projects share the same national
level steering committee (composed of Bappenas and KPDT) to improve higher-level
coordination. At the local level, both coordinate though the same Local Steering Committee.
There are no safeguard linkages between the programs (see Annex 10). The balance between
operational independence, with coordination at the national and local steering committees will
help maximize impacts for both programs, while ensuring there are no significant reputational
risks for all parties under these arrangements.

2. Institutional and implementation arrangements

Project Implementation

45. Bappenas coordinates all Aceh and Nias reconstruction work following the BRR's exit, and
is the executing agency for Nias-LEDP. The Ministry of Disadvantaged Areas (KPDT) is the
implementing agency and head of the Project Management Unit              and Secretariat. The
Local Steering Committee (LSC), based in Nias, is composed of the North Sumatra Provincial
Government and the districts of Nias and Nias Selatan. The World Bank, as partner agency with
KPDT, will oversee and supervise the program.

Central Government Level

46. Bappenas, as the GoI's executing agency, will be responsible for Nias-LEDP's overall
planning and evaluation consistent with the grant agreement between the World Bank and the
GOI. Bappenas will also coordinate with the Ministry of Finance (MOF), KPDT and other central
government agencies.

47. KPDT is responsible for project implementation and budget execution, including making
the annual budget application to the MOF and setting up a project satker (Satuan Kerja)

                                           .    10
responsible for management of the annual budget (DIPA). The budget application will be
allocated in the following manner: (i) payment to the consultants and firms supporting KPDT,
and (ii) operating costs of KPDT. Both KPDT and Bappenas are responsible for counterpart
financing (government staff honoraria, taxes and other operational expenses).

48. Program Steering Committee (PSC). The PSC is composed of Bappenas (Head) and
KPDT. The role of the PSC is to coordinate with the MDF and World Bank. The PSC is
responsible for setting program policies and intergovernmental coordination.

49. Program Management Unit (PMU). KPDT is the head of the PMU and PMU Secretariat,
with a representative office in Jakarta and a larger field office in Nias. The PMU is responsible
for project coordination and implementation - including procurement, monitoring and evaluation,
quality assurance, safeguards, and implementation of the anti-corruption action plan. PMU
resources and activities will be concentrated in the Nias-based PMU office to improve program
delivery and coordination with local government. Consultant services will support program
management of the PMU and project secretariat. All consultants report to, and are managed by
the PMU.

Provincial and District Government Level

50. Local Steering Committee (LSC). The LSC comprises local and provincial government, and
functions as the coordinating body to represent local development and program priorities, support
operations, and coordinate with the PMU. The North Sumatra Provincial government will lead
the LSC, and Bappeda from each district government in Nias will represent the local government
dinas (agriculture, estate crops, public works, etc) involved in the project. KPDT, as head of the
PMU and secretariat of LSC, will implement the general priorities of the LSC. The LSC
representatives will identify the preliminary areas for program activities, in coordination with,
and subject to the approval of the PMU. The LSC will be supported by program consultants.

5 1. District Government Agriculture Agencies/Dinas. The departments of agriculture and
estate crops, agriculture extension services (Ketahanan Pangan, Informasi Penyuluhan Pertanian
dan Kehutanan - KPIPPK), and sub-district agriculture extension services (BPP) will coordinate
at the program level through the LSC (represented by Bappeda), and support the PMU and
consultants to implement the project.

52. Camat's Oflce. Program activities will be coordinated at the Kecamatans level between
the PMU and the Camat's office. The Camat will support the project to facilitate consultation,
planning, and group identificatiodorganization with communities.

Consultant Services

53. Nias-LEDP has one consultant package supporting the PMU in (i.) program management
support and (ii.) Livelihoods Implementation Technical Assistance. Individual consultants will
be hired to support the PMU during start-up stages, and for independent FM verification
throughout the project.

Community Livelihoods Groups (Women and Agriculture)

54. The locations of the community groups will be decided by the PMU, LSC, and in
consultation with the local Camat offices. The PMU, supported by consultants, will conduct field
verification to ensure proposed communities meet required beneficiary criteria as set out in the

                                               11
Project Manual. The PMU, with the support of consultants, will also coordinate with the Camat
offices to (i.) identify and establish livelihood groups, (ii.) provide technical support and training
for livelihood activities, and (iii) help review group proposals for funding suitability. Community
grants are not `competitive' proposals, rather, once community groups are established, the
technical facilitators (consultants) provide training and guidance for implementation of group
livelihood activities. The consultants will evaluate community proposals for suitability and
feasibility before the PMU approves financing.

3. Monitoring and Evaluation of Outcomes/Results

55.  The program outcome and results indicators will be measured following the results
framework (Annex 3). The PMU secretariat, supported by consultants, is responsible for (i.) all
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) (ii.) elaboration of the baseline survey, monitoring surveys,
impact evaluation, and the project completion report prior to project closure.

56. The PSC at the central level, and the LSC at the sub-national level, will monitor and
oversee that the program is implemented according to design, objectives, and schedule.

57. The World Bank is responsible for overall program monitoring, and will provide bi-annual
reports to the MDF on progress achieved based on the results framework. Where feasible,
indicators will be harmonized with those of the MDF.

4. Sustainability

58. Agriculture remains a key national development priority despite the sector challenges. The
President of Indonesia has advanced the agenda to revitalize the agriculture, fisheries, and
forestry sectors (Revitalisasi Pertanian Perikanan dan Kehutanan/RPP June 2005). The RPPK
focuses on the development of human resource capacity and participatory empowerment of
farmers through improved information systems, training in community agribusiness development,
increased funding for long-term technological research and development to improve agricultural
competitiveness. This is also reflected in the Government of Indonesia (GOI) Medium Term Plan,
2005-2009 (RPJM) which calls for revitalizing agriculture through the development of
agribusiness linkages to improve farmers' incomes and through greater diversification. At a
national level there is thus keen interest in programs of this nature.

59. The underlying objective of the program is to foster sustainable development in rural areas.
Nias-LEDP will focus on the development of a region where access to markets and social
services is poor, and poverty rates are high - but are located in economic clusters with potential
for contributing to local and regional economic development. The program will focus resources
in areas already utilized for agriculture, and not endanger adjacent environmentally sensitive
areas. The livelihoods project thus offers the opportunity to test a model of livelihoods
development in poor areas for wider implementation if successful.

60. The social process for group formation is based on the proven methodology of the CDD
programs. The financial analysis of the project (Annex 9) shows that all farm level investments
have NPVs above investment costs at year 15, rates of return above the discount rate, and higher
returns per labor-day than wage labor. They should be attractive investments for farmers if the
support services from Government (both technical and financial for startup costs) are sustained.

61. KabupatenKota Government budgets for Nias at present levels would not sustain a
program of this size. While the national government is interested in successful models of rural

                                                 12
development for poverty alleviation, few best practice examples for poor regions exist. If the
project is successful, it could be more widely adopted. A recent Agricultural Public Expenditure
Review (World Bank, in draft) indicates that despite large increases in spending on agriculture,
productivity is improving only slowly because much of the spending has subsidized inputs, which
have either not been appropriate or not led to additional private investment. One indicator of
success for Component 2 is the demonstration effect - the extent to which project innovations are
adopted outside target groups and villages. The extent of spread should indicate whether this
model is sustainable under private financing and thus suitable for wider national government
funding.

5. Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Issues


Risk'                                                       Risk MitigationMeasures

Inadequate spread of benefits from           Substantial,   A specific component targeted at community
group knowledge due to social tradition      particularly   empowerment and including training on
and conflict among villagers                 in Nias        conflict resolution is included. The project will
                                             Selatan        also work with gender disaggregated groups to
                                                            emphasize benefits to family welfare from
                                                            livelihood improvement
Delays in procurement due to limited         Substantial    KPDT has been supported by a procurement
experience in Bank procedures.                              firm financed by bilateral donor support and
                                                            the PMU will be supported by an international
                                                            consultant with procurement specialists
                                                            experienced in Bank procedures. The hiring
                                                            of this specialist is expected to occur
                                                            immediately after effectiveness.
Delays due to unavailability of technical    Moderate       The PMU will contract long-term (30 months
support at village level and uncertainties                  each for 30 consultants) consultants/ and
regarding formation and strengthening                       master trainers in both group formation
of large numbers of groups. The                             /strengthening and technical aspects of crop
KabupatenKota extension system is                           production to work with the junior consultants
largely incomplete and even where                           and villagers. The number of groups may
established; workers are not always                         need to be adjusted to match implementation
available at the village level.                             capacity.
Misuse or sale of agriculture inputs by      Mod erate      The inputs will be supplied only after the Desa
poor farmers                                                administrations agree to coordinate and guide
                                                            the process, accepting the possibility that the
                                                            second season of support would be withdrawn
                                                            if inputs were misused as evidenced by poor
                                                            crop performance or obviously poor
                                                            management.
The PMU will work in a high fiduciary        Substantial    Consultant support and training in Bank
risk environment and the overall project                    systems will enhance capacity. Regular annual
financial risk is rated as Substantial                      audits of all project accounts will be
                                                            undertaken in line with Bank policy.
Overall Risk                                 Substantial




                                                      13
6. Grantkredit Conditions and Covenants

62. In addition to standard covenants for grants of this type, the grant agreement contains the
following effectiveness and disbursement conditions: The conditions for effectiveness are that (i)
the recipient will have adopted the final project operations manual; (ii) KPDT shall have issued
the request for proposals for program management and implementation consultants; and (iii) the
recipient shall have provided a legal opinion on the execution, delivery and authorization of the
grant agreement, in each case acceptable to the Recipient and the World Bank. The conditions
for disbursement of Community Support Grants is that the recipient will have adopted the Sub-
project Operations Manual acceptable to the Recipient and the World Bank, hired financial
management consultants at the PMC with terms of reference agreed between the recipient and the
Worid Bank, and hired individual FM consultants not later than one month after effectiveness to
ensure that he/she will assist the project on preparing the Community Support Grant manual.

D. Appraisal Summary

1. Financial Analysis

63. In a demand-driven framework project of this nature, assumptions about the mix of
activities that may be adopted are inappropriate given the wide variety of social backgrounds,
access constraints, 'technical knowledge, and training challenges among target groups. For this
reason, a traditional cost-benefit analysis was not carried out. Instead, a typical benefit stream of
individual actives was developed to determine investment costs, financial rates of return, net
present value and the comparative returns in terms of returns per labor-day. These enterprise
benefit streams are only examples, actual activities during implementation may be quite different,
and the PMU supported by Consultants would identify and screen additional enterprise mix to
suit local circumstances.

64. Assessment of the likely overall benefits (Annex 9) to direct participants on a financial
basis shows that the project will lead to improved livelihoods, and that the grant is expected to
have positive returns in the long term. At a discount rate of IO%, the combined net present value
of activities at year 15 is approximately US$11.08 million, demonstrating that the investment is
robust at reasonable discount rates. Gross margins of three activities, i.e.: rice (10,500 ha), rubber
(5,000 ha) and cocoa (2,000 ha) provide annual benefits of US$9.78 million, or almost all of
project cost after project completion in year 4.

65. The number of direct beneficiaries is estimated at 8,000 households for community
activities, and 10,000 households from the rice intensification program. Experience from similar
Oxfam livelihoods programs in Nias suggests strong demonstration effects, and DAFEP shows
that at least an equivalent number of non-direct beneficiary households benefit from the project.

2. Technical

66. The technical approach is designed primarily to mitigate the constraints from the low-
capacity (district government and farmer organization) and challenging operating environment in
Nias. Furthermore, the rationale for the relatively intense use of consultant resources (with
international experts for management while utilizing the strong pool of national technical and
extension experts) to support the PMU's implementation of the project is based on (i.) the need to
swiftly execute the project given the limited mandate of the MDF, and (ii.) lessons learned from
other projects in Nias, showing significant resources are required for field-based socialization,
quality assurance, and monitoring. KPDT will implement the program with participation from the

                                                 14
district and provincial governments. But the capability and resources of the sub-national
government to support implementation are severely constrained, and the local government is as
much a target beneficiary as partner in execution. Thus the technical approach also targets
capacity of local government through a field-based `learning by doing' approach, in addition to
more formal trainings through for key competencies, management, and technical skills of the
agriculture dinas staff.

3. Fiduciary

Financial Management

67. Financial management risk is rated as "High" and this could arise from the following
factors: (1) high fiduciary risk due to a weak control environment in remote area, particularly in
Nias; (2) KPDT's weak capacity in project management which has been noted in the
implementation of SPADA; (3) budget delays; and (4) community groups' limited capacity to
manage Community Support grants.

68. Some measures have been proposed to mitigate the risks arising from these factors. KPDT
will hire a consulting firm to strengthen KPDT project management capacity. PMU will need to
work together with MoF and ensure that budget documents can be issued in a timely fashion. An
individual FM consultant will be hired to assist the PMU during the start up stages and for
independent FM verification throughout the project. The individual consultant will support the
PMU management in overall coordination of financial management for the project, including but
not limited to, FM monitoring and oversight; payment verification, collating and preparing
Interim Financial Reports and withdrawal applications.

69. A Community Support grant/operations manual will be developed (utilizing standard
operating procedures practiced by PNPM urban and rural) and should be agreed by the Bank prior
to disbursement of Community Support grants. Training will be provided to the community
groups to ensure that they understand about their responsibility related to fund accountability. A
consultant firm will provide support in Nias. It will include a FM consultant, who, in addition to
providing FM support for expenditures at provincial level, would support communities in
maintaining books of accounts, provide training and review and verify the reports that the
communities prepare on utilization of Community Support grants.

70. In addition to the above measures, an independent financial audit will be carried out
annually. Public exit conferences will be conducted to convey audit findings to communities and
local government. The project auditor will work with the local auditor (Bawasda) as far as
possible to have more coverage areas. Sufficient segregation of duties between technical and
financiaVadministration aspects will be applied.

71. Taking into account the risk mitigation measures proposed, overall, the financial
management risks for this operation are assessed as "High" which can be reduced to "Substantial"
after the mitigation measures are implemented and have shown results. This assessment has
concluded that with the implementation of the action plan, the proposed financial management
arrangements will satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under OP/BP10.02 and are adequate
to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the grant
required by the Bank. More details of the financial management assessment are given in Annex 7.




                                               15
Procurement

72. Procurement for the project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," dated May 2004 and revised
October 2006 and May 2010; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers," dated May 2004 and revised October 2006 and May 2010, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreements.

73. Procurement activities will be carried out by State Ministry of Disadvantaged Areas
("Kementerian Pembangunan Daerah Tertinggal" or KPDT). Procurement risks were rated
"High" for the project before mitigation measures are applied. Due to KPDT's utilization of
procurement consultants, the straightforward contracts to be procured and under prior review, and
other mitigation measures applied, the residual project risks will be reduced to "Substantial".

74. Procurement will consist of (i.) Selection of Consultants (US$ 4.54 million) based on
QCBS method for the major contract (US$4.20 million) and other individual consultants
(US$0.34 million), (ii.) Goods (US$2.69 million) consisting of agricultural inputs and equipment,
(iii.) Grants to community livelihoods groups (US$340,000) who will manage procurement based
Community Participation, and (iv.) Go1 incremental operating costs (US$300,000), with funds for
study tours, trainings, and special studies (US$330,000). All procurement procedures will be
outlined in the Project Manual. Individual consultants will be mobilized throughout the project to
support all procurement of goods.

4. Social

75. The overall social impact is expected to be positive as the project will improve the
livelihoods of poor rural communities through technical assistance, capacity building, and
financing livelihood activities identified by farmers and women groups. Project activities working
with the local government are focused on capacity building, which include empowerment to work
with community groups.

76. The project design recognizes the importance of empowering women and other vulnerable
groups (poor farming communities etc) through the project design, which focuses on group-led
livelihood activities. The program specifically targets poor and vulnerable farmers and women
groups. Group proposals for livelihood activities will be screened to optimize impacts to the
target beneficiaries.

77. In principle, the PNPM/KDP land acquisition and resettlement policy (per the operations
manual) is appropriate for adoption by Nias-LEDP. The full, environmental and social safeguard
framework for the project is presented in Annex 10. Social safeguard policies are addressed in the
following manner:

78. Involuntary Resettlement. Project activities are not expected to require acquisition of
significant amounts of land and/or assets attached to the land. Sub-projects requiring relocation or
affected people will not be funded by the project. The farmers and women groups are expected to
use their existing farming and land areas, and it is very unlikely that there will be people who will
be physically displaced by any program activities. However, in the event that groups may require
land for common use (such as for drying and processing harvests, community nurseries, etc)
small amounts of land, crops, trees, houses, or other assets may need to be acquired to allow for
the most effective, efficient, and beneficial use of resources. In the case a sub-project needs to
acquire land, options of schemes for obtaining it should be made in full consultation and

                                                 16
agreement with the group members and the land owners. The project will adopt a Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework in accordance with the OPBP 4.12.
Implementation guidelines of this framework for the sub-projects will be elaborated in the project
Operation Manual. All land acquisition in the project will be documented by the coordinator of
the field-based experts and be consolidated in a monthly report by the environmental/social
safeguard specialist of the Nias-based PMU. The project recognizes the complex land tenure
arrangements in Nias, and this will be accommodated and designed for during implementation,
and the safeguards and IP framework.

79. Indigenous Peoples (IP)or Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples (IVP). The PNPM Mandiri for
rural areas (KDP) has recognized that there is a risk of exclusion of vulnerable groups in Nias,
including indigenous people (IP) or the Isolated and Vulnerable (IVP) groups. The majority of the
population in Nias can be considered indigenous so it is likely that this project will include IPS as
beneficiaries. Any sub-project involving IPS or IVPs will carry out free, prior, and informed
consultations with the IPS or IVPs and obtain broad community support, including non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) interested in supporting IPS or IVPs. This will be conducted
at all stages of the project cycle, from the sub-proposal preparation (planning stage),
implementation, and post activity operation. In areas where project activities involve IPS or IVPs,
the project will follow the IP or IVP policy framework developed in accordance OPBP 4.10 and
its implementation guidelines in the project Operation Manual. The project framework ensures
that IPS or IVPs (including women, low level sub-clans) participate in decision making
throughout project planning, implementation and evaluation, and ensures that they receive
benefits equal to the non-IP or non-IVP beneficiaries that are tailored to their needs and cultural
values. All IP or IVP related activities in the project will be documented by the coordinator of the
field-based experts and be consolidated in a monthly report by the environmentaVsocia1safeguard
specialist of the Nias-based PMU.

80. Disclosure and Complaints Handling. Information on all activities (proposals and approved
proposals) will be made available to the public at the village and kecamatan levels. The village-
based consultants will ensure that information is disseminated and socialized to all people in the
respective village and kecamatan. Approaches and instruments for dissemination and
socialization are provided in the project manual. The project will set up a complaint handling
system from the village level, up to KabupatedKota level. The project will request that the
village, kecamatan and KabupatedKota offices assign a person or a team that will handle
complaints from farmers and women groups, including receiving, filing, and following-up on
complaints. The assigned persodteam will coordinate the follow-up of the complaints to relevant
agencies in the project management structure either in the village, kecamatan, andor
KabupatedKota level. The village-based consultants will ensure that farmers and women groups
can file complaints without fear, and that relevant parties follow up complaints properly and in a
timely manner. The complaint handling mechanisms will be provided in the project manual. The
Nias-based PMU will document all complaints and follow-up actions, and will have sufficient
consulting services dedicated to carrying out activities. Further details on disclosure and
complaints handling are highlighted in the Governance and Accountability Framework.

5. Environment

8 1. Nias LEDP interventions are small-scale at village level, Le. small agricultural, training,
and livelihoods group activities - thus the level of associated environmental risks is limited.
Under the Indonesian Environmental Assessment Rules, they all fall below the minimum size
required for a formal Environmental Assessment (EA). It is expected that most activities will
contribute to improved environmental conditions (tree plantings, improved agricultural practices

                                                 17
and resource management, etc). Any adverse environmental impacts (soil erosion or increased use
of pesticides and fertilizers) under this project are expected to be limited and highly localized, and
can be readily mitigated through the project's negative list, or through environmental
management plans. The project will utilize and apply existing environmental screening forms
that are utilized by PNPM Rural KDP. This method is already `tested' for handling potential
negative impacts for projects of this type, through application of a negative list and impact check-
list forms.

82. A study was conducted (by Environmental Resource Management, ERM August 2008) to
examine the potential environmental and habitat impacts and mitigation measures from Nias-
LEDP. This study concluded that the program's environmental risks are limited. The results and
recommendations from this study have been integrated into the project design and safeguards
framework.

83. Cultural Prouertv. The highly participatory nature of the project will ensure that the
farmers/women groups can identify any proposed activities that may have an impact on cultural
property. Given the nature of the project, it is very unlikely that the project will support activities
affecting cultural property. However, the village-based consultants (Extension Technical
Experts/Coordinators) will screen any sub-project proposal and verify that no cultural property
will be affected in the farming areas or in the women groups' working areas. In cases where the
proposed sub-project affects a cultural property, it will not be financed under the project.

6. Safeguards Policies

Project Category and Triggered Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies

84. The project is classified as a B category project as defined in the World Bank's
Environmental Safeguard Policy. The direct environmental impact of activities supported under
the project is expected to be small Le., potential impacts are site-specific and can be localized;
few if any of them are irreversible; and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed. The
Nias-based PMU and its consultant will need to have a good understanding of activities
(livelihood group proposals and trainingdactivities with local governments) and possible related
environmental and social impacts; and how such impacts can be mitigated as they evaluate
activities for approval.

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                             Yes          No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.0 1)                                  [XI          [ I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                           [ I          [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                               [ I          [XI
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.1 1)                               [ I          [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                   [XI          [ I
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                         [XI          [ I
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                    [ I          [XI
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                             [ I          [XI
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                 [ I          [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                          1          [XI

85. Capacity of Nias-based PMU. The Project is aware that the capacity of local government
staff in handling environmental and social safeguard issues is relatively weak. The Nias-based
PMU's capacity may also be weak in this regard. Sufficient resources are included in the

                                                  18
technical assistance of the project to support the PMU implementing the environmental and social
safeguards framework, including the hiring of environmental and social safeguards specialists in
the advisory consultancy, and training for the PMU and local government staff as well as village-
based consultants.

86. Potential Linkage with the Nias Island Rural Access and Capacity Buildinn Promam (Nias-
RACBP), The ILO is implementing a separate stand-alone project (funded by the MDF) to
improve rural access in the key economic clusters in Nias, where Nias-LEDP will be
implemented. The PMUs of Nias-LEDP and Nias-MCBP will have to coordinate their activities
at the planning stage, to ensure that the latter implements its approved environmental and social
safeguards framework consistently. The Nias-LEDP PMU will review the application of the
ILO's safeguards policies for its sub-projects at the planning stage, or carry out due diligence
during sub-project implementation. Corrective actions may have to be requested from ILO should
the project find that its approved safeguards framework is not being implemented consistently.

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

87. No policy exceptions are anticipated. On the other hand, the KPDT has started the
procurement process for the selection of the consultancy firm for program management and the
selection of individual consultant. Also, the draft project operation manual has been prepared. It
is expected that the program will build on the existing community groups under the ILO program
and expand them to cover the scope of the proposed project.




                                               19
                         Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
          Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

Country and sector issues

1. Agriculture is one of the key sectors in the Indonesian economy, contributing about 17% of
the Gross Domestic Product, and providing employment to some 45% of the labor force. About
60% of the population is rural and associated with agriculture, and their expenditure poverty rate
is about 19%, almost four times higher than of the urban population. Agriculture averages half of
rural household incomes, the rest coming from non-agricultural activities, small-scale trading and
seasonal construction work. As such, rural poverty is a key issue in the development of the
country.

2. Outside Java, non-agricultural economies are not as well developed and links to urban
markets are weaker, such that rural households depend more on agricultural activities and have
less diversified sources of income. For the outer islands with wetter climates, tree crops are the
more important crops. Estate crops, in particular rubber, coconut, oil palm, cocoa, coffee and tea,
make a major contribution to economic development in Indonesia. At least 40 percent (9.5
million ha) of the cultivated land is covered by estate crops, both annuals (e.g. sugar cane) and
perennials (e.g. rubber), and employs 30 percent of the labor force. With the exception of large
scale estate crops, nearly all agricultural production is undertaken by the 18 million smallholders,
most of who farm less than 1 ha. Five crops dominate the sub-sector (rubber, oil palm, coconut,
cocoa and coffee) covering 7.6 million ha and generating 50 percent of agriculture exports. All of
these estate crops, except oil palm, are predominantly grown by smallholders.

3. Apart from estate crops the food crops sub-sector contributes significantly to the national
economy. However, with productivity gains of most food crops slowing down, such crops
provide less potential for generating additional employment and income growth. There is now a
clear need for the focus to be shifted to agricultural diversification, to building closer ties between
smallholders and markets and agribusiness, to open up backward areas with growth potential and
to adding greater value to agricultural products.

4. The revitalization of the agriculture, fisheries and forestry sector (Revitalismi Pertanian,
Perikanan dun Kehutanan / RPPK) presented in June 2005 is a strategy of the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) that focuses on, inter alia, the development of human resource capacity and
participatory empowerment of farmers to improve agricultural competitiveness. This is also
reflected in the GO1 Medium Term Plan, 2005 - 2009 (RPJM)which recognises the importance
of diversification to improving efficiency and farmer welfare and the growing importance of
globalization in agricultural competitiveness and calls for the development of agribusiness
linkages to improve farmers' incomes.

Program background

5. The Nias archipelago situated west of North Sumatra is to a large extent depending on
agriculture as source of income. About 90% of the population is involved in agriculture (rubber,
coconut, paddy and cacao) that contributes to some 50% of the GDP. Farming is, however, at a
subsistence level and despite high rainfall (2,800 mdyear) and no distinct dry season, yields are
low and below the national average. Nias is considered the poorest area in North Sumatra and
Indonesia, with a poverty rate of 32%. Its human development indicators (health and education)
are ranked towards the bottom within the province and in the country. Local government capacity

                                                  20
in terms of human resources, education, revenues and facilities is low.

6 . Following the December 2004 tsunami and March 2005 earthquake that provoked large scale
damage and loss of lives, reconstruction activities were started by the GOI, assisted by donors
and aid organizations. The GO1 created a Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency (Badan
Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruhi (BRR) to provide leadership and management across all aspects of
recovery of Aceh and Nias. Most of the rehabilitation and reconstruction activities by multiple
donors, NGOs and the Government were initially focused on Aceh, on infrastructural works, and
relatively limited h d s were set aside for Nias. In 2007 more funds were directed towards the
reconstruction of Nias. Overall BRR has made substantial progress in construction of the primary
road network in Nias, and the Multi Donor Fund (MDF) financed Infrastructure Reconstruction
Enabling Program (IREP) and Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility (IRFF) programs
will continue to build on this following the BRR's transition in April 2009. However, Nias' long-
term economic recovery will also depend on improving access to the improved network for the
disbursed population, while using these infrastructure investments to support key development
clusters (rubber, cacao, rice, fisheries, etc).

7. Nias' remoteness and poor transport network - particularly access to the majority rural
population, who are poor and living in low-density disbursed settlements - creates significant
market and production inefficiencies, and limits access to health, education, and other key social
services. Current agriculture practices are very low-yield and inefficient - but there is significant
potential to improve livelihoods and the rural economy through targeted investments and
educatiodvocational-training. Doing so requires an island-wide approach to create economic
clusters for economies of scale and to better target beneficiaries. But access remains a cross-
cutting human and economic development bottleneck in Nias - for any program to achieve
sustainable and optimal results, this issue must be addressed in tandem and in an integrated
manner. The relative isolation of Nias, extreme climate, and highly dispersed settlement patterns
of numerous indigenous communities has resulted in communities being self contained, and
prone to local intra-community social conflict. Most development organization in Nias reported
delays and complications are common due to Nias' `complex social fabric.'

The government's strategy now is to build off of the investments and development framework
prepared by IREPDRFF, through the proposed Nias Livelihoods and Economic Development
Program (Nias-LEDP). The Nias-LEDP overall development objective is to facilitate post-
disaster economic recovery by improving the ability of the Government to work with poor rural
households in Nias to identify, develop and sustain livelihood. To achieve this objective, Nias-
LEDP would: (i) develop and implement focused programs for sustained development and
livelihoods in key agriculture and businesses sectors; (ii) support targeted trainings and
investments in pilot sectors; and (iii) improve capacity of local government service delivery.

Nias Agriculture Sector

8. The key agricultural livelihood opportunities in Nias are based on improving productivity of
rice, cocoa, rubber, and livestock. Coconut is a major crop but is limited by insect problems and
world market opportunities for copra and coconut oil. Some 90% of the rubber area and 75% of
the cocoa areas are located in Nias. The area cultivated with these two crops is relatively small in
Nias Selatan where the more important crops are coconut and paddy rice. Both Kecamatan face
similar problems of:



                                                 21
        poor access in areas more than about 5km from the coast,
        poor soils derived from coralline limestone with high natural sodium content
        causing intractability (sticky when wet and very hard when dry) and thus limiting
        crop opportunities.
        inadequate training, f h d i n g and incentives for agricultural extension and a lack
        of village level services
        In contrast, the opportunities exist to exploit
        a uniformly distributed average annual rainfall of some 2600 mm,
        unsatisfied markets locally for rice to meet self sufficiency (current production of
        about 40-48,000 tons milled rice meets 50% of requirement)and livestock to
        address a universal inadequacy of protein in the diet
        International demand for cocoa and rubber at currently very high prices for good
        quality product
        Experience gained from a series of small but focused livelihood projects by
        international NGOs in crops such as rice, cocoa and smallholder rubber

                     Table 1: Estimated Area of Major Crops, 2006/2007

                        Total       Total       Coconut       Rice          Others        Total
                        Rubber      Cocoa
 Nias                   54,339      5,400      39,163         17,135        10,000        126,037
 Nias Selatan           6,378       1,944      21,464         10,647        3,406         43,839
 Total                  60,717      7,344      60,627         27,782        13,406        169,876

 Source: Dinas Pertanian dan Kehutanan, Nias and Nias Selatan, 2008.
  Nias Selatan Dalam Angka, 2006 and field data on output and yield collected from traders and
 farmers.

9. Table 1 shows that in both Nias and Nias Selatan, crop productivity in all crops is low by
national standards Average rice yields are , for example, 2.5 tiha compared to the national
average of 4.9 tiha. Cocoa productivity is on par with the low national average of about 0.8tiha
caused by insect attack (Cocoa pod borer), little or no fertilizer input on poor soils and very poor
genetic stock with almost universal used of unselected local seedling cocoa. Post harvest grading
to remove pod borer affected bean or to ferment the best quality bean in Nias are both inadequate.
Rubber productivity is particularly poor compared to yields of 1.5tiha achieved in plantation
culture on Sumatra and deliberate post harvest adulteration of latex with rocks, soil vegetation
and water is widespread in an attempt to increase marketed weight, albeit at the cost of price
discounts of up to 30%. Livestock production (pigs, poultry) is popular, particularly among
women but faces constraints of capital for livestock purchase and housing and widespread lack of
understanding of disease and parasite control and improved feeding strategies.

10. Nevertheless, the average farm size is still adequate to achieve reasonable livelihoods if
yields and quality can be improved. There are an estimated 100,000farms in this island and the
average farm size is 1.5 ha. However field observations indicate that there are large areas of idle
land that farmers claim as their land and these areas could potentially be used for new planting of
crops such as rubber and cocoa


                                                22
                                   Table 2 Crop Production Parameters

                                    Total Production                      Number of           Average Farm
                        Area             (Tons)                kgha        Farms                Sue ha  -
 Nias
 Rubber                54,339              32,878                605             21,933              2.48
 Cocoa                  5,400               3,780                700              8,000              0.68
 Coconut               39,163              37,205                950             25,000              1.57
 Rice                  17,135              42,838              2,500             15,000              1.14
 Sub-Total            116,037                                                    69,933              1.66

 Nias Selatan
 Rubber                 6,378               2,309                3 62             3,500              1.82
 Cocoa                   1,944              1,166                600              2,500              0.78
 Coconut               2 1,464             19,302                899             15,000              1.43
 Rice                  10,647              23,423              2,200             12,000              0.89
 Sub-Total             40,433                                                    33,000              1.23
 Total                156,470                                                   102,933              1.52

Nias crop production

Rubber
 11. 11. Rubber cultivation was introduced to Nias in the 1950's at the height of the rubber price
boom. Virtually all planting was undertaken by the farmers under the swudaya (self-help) system
with minimal government assistance in the form of planting material. Over the last 60 years, there
has been no major government supported replanting program and many old trees have been
replaced with the natural growth of rubber seedlings, jungle trees, fruit trees and more recently
with the planting of unselected cocoa seeds. The production system is predominantly "jungle"
rubber4, which has very low yields and is unimproved with little or no maintenance. Average
production is 500-600 kglhdyear of dry rubber. The use of unselected planting material,
inadequate fertilization, improper agronomic practices and poor tapping technique all contribute
to low yields.

12. The main rubber growing areas are located in the relatively flat eastern areas of Nias
covering the sub-districts of: (i) Alasa, Namohalu and Hiliduho in North Central Nias; (ii)
Tuhemberua and Lahewa in Northern Nias: (iii) Mendrehe in Central Nias; (iv) Gunung Sitoli in
East Central Nias; (iv) Lahemo in the South Central Nias; and (vi) Lolowa'u and Idin North Nias
Selatan.

 13. On specialized rubber farms, rubber is the principal source of farm income, ranging from 50
to 80% of the total, with off-farm activities accounting for up to 30%5. Most of the smallholdings
are located in remote areas, where infrastructure conditions tend to be poor, and where there are
no downstream processing industries. All the old rubber wood is used as fuel wood. Besides the
poor roads, the marketing chain from the farmer to the rubber factory can also be long, with many
intermediaries.


 Refers to self-generating rubber holdings where the seeds are left to grow to replace the old damaged trees.
 Based on data collected 60m farm visits.

                                                          23
14. The main problems faced by rubber farmers are: (i) low crop yields; (ii) high transport and
transaction costs among intermediaries to factory; (iii) low technical knowledge and poor post
harvest practices; (iv) lack of technical and financial assistance and low incentives for replanting.

15. Many farmers are only obtaining less than 1,000 kgha of wet rubber lumps (with a drc of
55%) or 4 kgha per tapping day. Farmers are capitalizing on the current high prices which are
double the prices they received 2 years ago, to tap every day if weather permits. The main reasons
for low yields are: (i) old age of trees since rubber yields decline substantially after year 20; (ii)
general neglect of trees; (iii) poor tapping practices which have caused severe damage and (iv)
the absence of the use of fertilizer or manure.

16. Farmers receive very little training on new rubber technology. This places them in a very
poor position in controlling plant diseases such as "white root disease" which is prevalent in
many areas. Many of the existing rubber areas are either low yielding or completely non-
productive, due to either old age or poor tapping system, and need to be replanted.

17. A sustainable household level approach to industry rehabilitation will need to balance the
improved income potential from better tapping and post harvest handling practices with the long
term investment ( 7 years to first tapping) involved in replanting. Thus a typical farmer might aim
to use benefits in price of about 20% available by improving post harvest quality and improved
output (10%) from better tapping methods to offset losses from replanting. About 10-15% of
existing trees each year might be replanted until the rubber jungle is replaced with a productive
smallholder plantation.


Cocoa
 18. Cocoa is a relatively new crop introduced in the early nineties during a period of high cocoa
prices. As with rubber,. the crop-has been introduced on a minimum ;nv&tment ba& using
seedling cocoa grown from local trees and with little or no selection or attempt at crop
management (pruning, grafting, regular harvest and removal of disease affected pods). In some
areas, it was viewed as a replacement crop for Patchouli Oil or Nilam which experienced a steep
price fall from Rp800,OOO per liter to Rp125,OOO per liter after the discovery of contamination in
the oil produced in this island. Sustained period of high cocoa prices since 2001 arising from
disruption in supply from West Africa have further given a boast for cocoa cultivation and new
planting has accelerated in the last 3 years both as a result of a new spike in cocoa prices and
assistance provided by UN agencies, BRR and NGO's after the damage cause by the recent
Tsunami and earthquake.

 19. Cocoa is regarded as a supplementary crop and grown in scattered areas where there is
vacant land. It is also grown on the roadside and in small gardens and regarded as similar to fruit
tress by many households. It is not regarded as a main source of farm income and hence it is
generally neglected and not fertilized. The total area appears to be uncertain and estimates can
range from 5,000 to 10,000 ha. Figures obtained from traders indicate that production from Nias
and Nias Selatan is in the region of 3,000 to 4,000 tons of dry beans. From field observations, it
appears that the existing average yield is 500 kg/ha/year of semi-dried bean which suggests 6,000
to 8,000 ha of crop. The average size of cocoa holding can range from 0.1 to 1.O ha and the total
number of cocoa farmers will be in the range of 20,000 to 30,000 farmers. A "typical" farm
probably has about 150-200 trees in all stages of growth and productivity, mainly recent (last 5
years) planting, seldom pruned or fertilized and based on seedling cocoa.



                                                 24
20. The main cocoa producing regions at present are Tuhemerua, Mandrehe, and Gungungsitoli.
Gomo sub-district is also becoming a major cocoa growing centre. Many of these trees are
severely affected by cocoa pot borer, and, due to the lack of knowledge, farmers are not taking
any preventive measures. These preventive measures include: (i) regular pruning to allow more
sunlight to reach the fruits; (ii) fertilization or manuring to strengthen the tree resistance to
disease; (iii) burying or composting of cocoa pods after harvesting the beans to eliminate its use
as a breeding ground for insect pest; (iv) use of plastic bags to cover the cocoa fruits; (v)
introducing large red ants to feed on the pest; and (vi) spraying beneficial fungus to prevent
growth of larvae.

21. An appropriate strategy would be to make grafted or clonal cocoa (from the Indonesian
Cocoa and Coconut Research Institute) widely available through nurseries open to the public,
train farmers in crop management (pruning, post harvest quality control, (drying, grading and
fermentation) and finally to introduce livestock for manure to the farming system whilst
demonstrating how balanced fertilization with NPK and micronutrients can improve yield and
insectldisease resistance

-
Rice
22. Rice (both lowland rain-fed and irrigated paddy and upland rice) is grown in some 28,000
ha. Double cropping is carried out in most of these areas relying primarily on rainfall resulting in
an average crop intensity of 130% (Total production is estimated at 80,000 ton paddy or 48,000
ton rice is only sufficient to meet 50% of the island's requirements. Farmers claim that they only
grow paddy to meet their own household needs. They are not keen to plant new hybrid high
yielding varieties since they do not like its taste. Moreover, hybrids have been shown to have
inadequate disease and insect resistance under Indonesian conditions and in fact to increase risk
of rice blast disease.

23. Paddy production has declined substantially in the last 5 years as farmers focus more of their
time on growing rubber and cocoa that can provide them with a daily source of farm income. The
net income from growing a hectare of paddy is less than Rp0.5 milliodhdmonth as compared
with over Rpl.0 milliodhdmonth from tree crops such as rubber and cocoa. Most farmers use
self propagated seed which has not been replaced with new seed for up to 15 generations when a
replacement cycle of 3-4 years is desirable to maintain yields. However, Halcrow (2008) have
demonstrated that yields of over 7tiha are possible in a wide selection of irrigated areas in Nias
with the use of fresh seed of improved varieties combined with fertilizer.

24. The simplest strategy for this crop would be
    0 to make fresh seed of high yield potential varieties widely available by village level
      multiplication of seed of improved varieties in year 1 and
      to demonstrate the benefits available from fertilizer at low rates as a means of
    0 boosting yields to about 3.3 tiha and thus achieving self sufficiency. The simplest means
      of demonstrating benefits would be a onetime grant in kind in the form of one 50kg sack
      of NPK 16:16:16 and one 50kg sack of urea to every farmer in a project rice village in
      year 2 once fertilizer responsive varieties are available.
   0  to support post harvest mechanization of threshing and winnowing by farmer groups,
      possibly women's groups.

25. No large training program would be involved because of the basic familiarity of farmers
with the crop and the lack of any fundamental change in production practices as would be
involved by attempting to introduce the System of Rice Intensification (SRI), for example. It


                                                25
should also be remembered that any strategy must account for weak extension service training,
incentives and coverage. The emphasis would be on developing good quality extension seed in
the village by a core of Kelompok Tani seed producers using imported foundation seed purchased
in Sumatra or Java.

CroD and Livestock Diversification
26. Apart from the major tree crops and rice, there is a growing trend among lead farmers to
diversify into crops such as chilis, heavy vegetables, and fruit plus small livestock based on
intensive housing. The process requires support with new inputs such as balanced fertilizer mixes,
plastic sheeting for weed control, small irrigation systems, fungicides and packaging materials.
Livestock require veterinary medicines and technical support, housing and specialized feed
rations. These types of activities can be profitable but require capital investment for startup and
agricultural support services for sustainability.

27. Women are interested in activities which can be supported close to the home and are
particularly interested in value adding to livestock and garden produce through retailing. They do,
however, require better knowledge of market opportunities and the means to transport to markets,
avoiding losses in the value chain through intermediaries.




                                                26
   Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank, MDF and/or other Agencies
       Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

             Table A2.1. Externally Assisted Relevant Projects in Nias
Source of
funding
ADB       The Earthquake and Tsunami Emergency Support Project (ETESP) in Aceh and
          Nias initially focused on helping to rebuild the regions affected by the tsunami and
          earthquakes. Under ETESP 24, executed in 2 phases, 16 Kecamatan Spatial
          Frameworks and Action Plans for Nias were prepared. The activities undertaken
          include field surveys, mapping and planning. ETESP 39, is a follow-up of 24 and
          will cover an additional 16 sub-districts in Nias, including one on Pulau Pulau Batu.
          Despite the problems of lack of reliable data, difficulties with ground truthing due to
          the un-accessibility of terrain, the information derived and presented in maps and
          action plans is a valuable basis for development planning. ETESP data and maps
          were used in the preparation of LEDP to identify potential development clusters that
          require access improvement.

Aus Aid        The Nias Reconstruction Program (NRP) in South Nias is funded by AusAID. The
               NRP had two components: 1) to help rehabilitate communities in Nias Selatan by
               rebuilding critical community infrastructure and restoring livelihoods', and 2)
               government capacity building.
               NRP livelihoodagriculture activities didn't take off, The Aus$2.1 road construction
               program included the construction of 37 km footpaths, including culverts, bridges,
               and retaining walls, all with community participation, no contractors involved.
               Further sub-district offices were constructed and assistance was provided to villages
               in the development of legislation on operation and maintenance of infrastructure. At
               district level training was given to government staff. NRP is due to end in April
               2009, but proposals have been made to extend the activities to cover Pulau Pulau
               Batu and Hibala.

GO1 / WB       The Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) is implemented by the Ministry of
and MDF        Home Affairs, Community Development Office. It is aimed at alleviating poverty,
               strengthening local government and community institutions, and improving local
               governance. KDP began in 1998 and is expected to run until 2009. It also covers
               Nias. The program is funded through government budget allocations, donor grants
               (MDF), and loans from the World Bank. It provides Community Support grants of
               approximately US$50,000 to US$150,000 to sub-districts, depending upon
               population size. Villagers engage in a participatory planning and decision-making
               process to allocate those resources for their self-defined development needs and
               priorities.
               From 1998 to 2006, KDP covered 49% of the poorest villages in Indonesia. Since
               inception in 1998, KDP disbursed a total of amount U$ 1.6 billion from loan, grant
               and government financing.

               The Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility (IRFF) Project is financed
               through US$ 100 million from the MDF trust hnd aiming economic recovery of
               Aceh, North Sumatra and Nias through the reconstruction of the impacted
               infrastructure in the targeted areas. In parallel, US$ 42 million Infrastructure
               Reconstruction Enabling Project (IREP) has been funded from the MDF to enable

                                               27
Source of Description
funding
          the implementation of the IRFF. Both projects started in 2007 and are still ongoing.
          About 56 infrastructure sub-projects including water resources development, water
          supply, roads, bridges and flood control have been constructed.

              Kecamatan Based Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Planning Project (KRRP) is
              funded by the MDF (US$25.75 million) and the World Bank is its Partner Agency.
              The project aims at the development and reconstruction of houses and community
              infrastructure in Nias. project has started in November 2006 and is expected to close
              in June2011.

ILO/ MDF      ILO started the implementation of Capacity Building for Local-based Resources
              Rural Roads program in Aceh and Nias in January 2006. The project is funded by
              the MDF and the UNDP is the partner agency while ILO is the implementing
              agency. The project provides short-term employment opportunities for the local
              workforce in rehabilitation of roads and longer-term in maintenance of roads. The
              program is expected to be completed in December 2009 with 33 km of the total
              169 km district roads rebuilt and 70 of the total 161 maintained in Nias and Nias
              Selatan. As much as US$ 11.8 million is given as grant to this program, with
              US$6.4 million disbursements. The objective of this project is to strengthen the
              capacity of district government and small-scale contractors to adopt and undertake
              local resource-based work by giving them intensive consultation in addition to
              intensive training. As per 30 Sept 2008, 12 engineers and supervisors from district
              government staff have been trained for contract management and construction
              supervision - in excess of the original target (15 for Aceh and Nias). The project has
              conducted intensive consultation with district and provincial government.

UNDP and      UNDP financed a large number of livelihood and infrastructure development
UNDPMDF       projects, of which the A c e m i a s Livelihoods Recovery Project - Round I1 (NLRP)
              concerning the development and rehabilitation of the rice and irrigation
              infrastructure in Nias is relevant to LEDP. The main features of the project, carried
              out with foreign consultants between November 2006 and November 2007, were the
              identification and rehabilitation of 20 irrigation schemes through a participatory
              approach, engaging local community organizers; Most of the selected schemes are
              situated in Nias district. In 26 schemes eventually Water Users' Associations were
              established. Apart from rehabilitation and institutional strengthening, the project
              concerned the improvement of crop husbandry practices. The project provided seed
              (hybrid Ciherang), fertilizer, pesticides and herbicides, as well as power tillers.
              Eventually, some 2,340 ha were rehabilitated and in over 5,000 ha improved
              technology was applied. The rehabilitation works concerned mostly construction of
              lined canals, division boxes as well as intake structures and weirs. Efforts were also
              made to grow vegetables (palawija) as a third crop, though the response of the
              farmers, organized in groups (kelompok tani) was in this respect limited due to their
              engagement in other activities and their limited consumption of vegetables. Rice
              yields did increase significantly under the new practices (from 2.3 to 6.9 tha). After
              the completion of the project the production could not be sustained, as the farmers
              could not reproduce the hybrid variety, nor did they have credit facilities to buy
              sufficient inputs. The engagement of the local government service, Dinas Pertanian,
              was minimal as they lacked capacity.


                                              28
Source of Descrip
funding
          The UNDP and Ministry of Home Affairs is implementing a new program, Nias
          Island Transition Program (NITP). The project is funded by the h4DF (US$ 3.89
          million) to support local government capacity building for the Nias post BRR
          transition. The program will more focus on governance, while Nias-LEDP on
          technical capacity building of district governments.
             Tsunami Recovery Waste Management Project (TRWMP) is financed by the MDF
             (US$39.4 million) and the UNDP as the Partner Agency. The project has a strong
             livelihoods component addressing waste management and recycling. project has
             started in September 2005 and is expected to close in December 2010

             Support to Strengthen the Role and Capacities of Civil Society Organizations
             (CSO). The project is funded by the MDF (US$ 6.0 million) and the UNDP is the
             Partner Agency. The project objective is to build technical and organizational
             capacities of NGOs and CSOs. The project is at its final stages. The LEDP can
             benefit from the developed expertise in complaints handling where CSOs would
             participate in monitoring complaints handling during its implementation. project has
             started in December 2005 and is expected to close in June 2010

World Food   Sea Delivery and Logistics Programme (SDLP). The project is funded by the h4DF
Programme    (US$ 25.03 million) and the World Food Programme is the Partner Agency. The
(WFP)I       project provided logistical support, reconstruction and training to build capacity of
MDF          port staff in Nias. The project has started in March 2006 and is expected to close in
             September 2010.
Red Cross    The Singaporean Red Cross established a Farmers Training Centre near Gunung
             Sitoli in 2006. Five hectares land was bought on which organic farming is practiced
             and taught to farmers and farmer groups. The centre is hlly equipped for training
             purposes and has dormitories catering for up to 160 persons. The centre, managed
             by the NGO Yayasan Anugrah Hidup, has tailor-made training programs on organic
             farming and other subjects. The centre also produces and sells cocoa seedlings,
             using seed from Medan. The NGO will continue after the Red Cross ceases its
             operations in 2009 and hopes to exploit the centre on cost-recovery base.

Caritas      Caritas started its operations after the tsunami in Nias in 2005. Caritas works with
             local NGOs (Yayasan Pembangunan Kesejahteraan Masyarakat or YPKM). The
             activities undertaken concerned mainly housing, empowerment of local
             communities, disaster risk reduction, books for schools, construction of
             kindergartens and a nutrition program. The locations where Caritas is active are in
             the western part of Nias island. Under the livelihood empowerment activities locally
             recruited and trained facilitators asked communities to identify, formulate and if
             possible execute their own projects. For the 2008 - 2009 period  1.6 m has been
             allocated for the construction of some 13 km 2-3 m wide Telford road in the Moro'o
             and Tugale Oyo sub-districts. The works are implemented through the NGO
             ACTED and L O monitors quality and progress. Planned is further the
             sstablishment of a service centre in Mandrehe sub-district, where tools and fertilizer
             md other chemicals will be sold to farmers. The organization and management of
             the service centre will be in the hands of the diocese of Sibolga. Caritas considers
             the lack of capacity of local government one the major problems in executing
             problems. It is the intention to cease operations in Nias by the end of 2009.

                                             29
Source of             n
funding
Save the  Save the Children is operational in Nias since 2005. The projects implemented over
Children  the years concerned- education, disaster risk reduction, child protection and
          livelihood development. The livelihood project concerned a multi-agency household
          economy study conducted in November - December 2005 to inform relief agencies
          on the degree of recovery following the earthquake and the more general constraints
          to livelihood security. The ultimate goal was to determine appropriate
          measuredinterventions to support recovery, strengthen livelihoods, increase access
          to basic services and contribute to contingency planning. The studies resulted in a
          number of recommendations to support the agricultural sector, and a follow up
          project with the local churches of YKPM on capacity building (training on
          cooperative development and management) and establishment of some nurseries at
          household level. Presently Save the Children has one project, concerning education,
          health and nutrition, implemented in 6 districts (in 264 schools with some 40,000
          children). The project is to be completed by 2009.
Oxfam     Oxfam active in Nias since June 2005, covers the north and east of the island and
          initially focused on provision of sanitation. In 2008, Oxfam moved to longer-term
          development focusing on livelihood. The Livelihoods Team selected eight villages
          to work with on rubber and cocoa in the sub-districts of Tuhemberua, Sawti, Gidti,
          Idantigawo and Bawtilato. There were a total of 1,400 beneficiary households in
          rubber and cocoa activities. Training was given on the establishment of farmer
          cooperatives and women vegetables growers associations. Gender training has been
          also conducted. Over 940 households received inputs and tools for farming, while
          790 Farmer Field School training sessions were provided to improve cocoa,
          vegetable and rubber cultivation; 35 demo-plots and nurseries for cocoa, rubber and
          vegetables were established: over 40 groups of cocoa and rubber farmers were
          mobilized and organized.




                                           30
 Table A2.2. Externally Assisted Relevant Tree Crop Development Projects 1969 to 2007 in
                                                -
                                        Indonesia.
                                                        Loan
                                                Date    (US% milli   Crops
                                                         n
                                                        o )
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Sumatra Rubber and Oil Palm Project             1971        7.4                  Rubber, oil palm
Nucleus Estate and Smallholder CocodCoconut
Project                                         1988       47.5                  Cocoa, coconut
Tree Crop Smallholder Sector Project            1991      113.7               Rubber, tea, cashew
Smallholder Tree Crop Processing Project        1992       64.3                            Rubber
Estate Crop Dev in Critical Watershed Project   1992       50.0
Marginal Farmer Community Development
Project                                         1992       50.0
                                                                     Rubber, Rubber and Oil Palm
Tree Crop Smallholder Sector Project I1         1993      150.0                             Mills
Upland Farmer Development Project               1993       28.3                  Rubber, cashew
Sustainable Agriculture Development Project     1994       21.6            Coffee, cacao, cashew
Sulawesi Rain fed Agriculture Development                               Coffee, coconut, cashew,
Project                                         1995       26.3                            cocoa
National Estate Crop Protection IPM Project     1997       40.2
  Sub-Total                                               599.3
WORLD BANK
North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project   1973        5.O             Rubber, oil palm, rice
NES I                                           1977       65.0         Rubber, oil palm, coconut
NES I1                                          1978'      65.0                            Rubber
NES I11                                         1979       99.0                   Rubber, oil palm
NES IV                                          1980       42.0              Oil palm, food crops
Smallholder Rubber Development                  1980       45.0                            Rubber
                                                                       Rubber, oil palm, coconut,
NES V                                           1981      161.0                               food
NES VI                                          1982       68.1       Rubber, coconut, food crops
NES VI1                                         1983      154.6       Rubber, oil palm, food crops
Smallholder Rubber Development I1               1985      131.0                            Rubber
Tree Crops Sector Development Project           1992       87.6                   Rubber, coconut
Famer Empowerment Through Agriculture
Technology and Information Project              2007       39.9
    Sub-Total                                             963.3
RELATED WORLD BANK PROJECTS
Agricultural Estates Project I                  1969       16.0        Rubber, oil palm; SH study
Agricultural Estates Project I1                 1970       17.0                  Rubber, oil palm
Agricultural estates Project IV                 1972       11.0                  Rubber, oil palm
                                                                         Estate rehabilitation; SH
Smallholder and Private Estates Project         1973         7.8                         extension
Tree Crops Processing Project                   1988      118.2        Factory capacity for NES I
  Sub-Total                                               266.3
TOTAL                                                   1.828.9




                                                31
                           Annex 3: Results framework and monitoring
             Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

             Project                        Outcome Indicators                    Use of Outcome
             Development                                                          Information
i            Objective
    To facilitate post-disaster         At least 5 KabupatedKota              Year 1 Assess training needs
    economic recovery by                staff (per district) trained in       of KabupatedKota staff and
    improving the ability of the        with program management               beneficiaries
    Government to work with             and monitoring and                    Year 2 Assess training
    poor rural households in            evaluation skills to be able to       impact on KabupatedKota
    Nias to identify, develop and       assist communities                    staff and community groups
    sustain livelihood                                                    0   Year 2 Assess the impact of
    opportunities.
                                    0   At least 25% of livelihood
                                        groups retain group technical         participatory methods for
                                        and organizational skills,            livelihood development as a
                                        and are accessing                     means of using National and
                                        information, finance, and             KabupatedKota funding
                                        markets resulting in                  more efficiently for poverty
                                        improved livelihoods                  reduction
                                                                              Year 2 Develop greater self
                                        At least 5 KabupatedKota              reliance in livelihood
                                        Dinas Pertanian staff (per            development among
                                        district) have acquired               communities through social,
                                        specific technical skills in          technical and financial skills
                                        tree crops nursery
                                        management and fertilizer
                                        handling and distribution

                                        At least 3 KabupatedKota
                                        seedling nurseries are
                                        established, introducing
                                        improved rubber and cocoa
                                        varieties, with sustainable
                                        operating models

                                        Increased rice yields to 3.3
                                        tons per hectare in targeted
                                        producing groups through
                                        introduction of improved
                                        seeds of high-yielding
                                        varieties seeds and fertilizer
                                        use.
    intermediate Results                     Intermediate Outcome                 Use of Outcome
    Component 1 Community                    Indicators                           Monitoring
    and Institutional
    Empowerment
    Outcome :
    Livelihood Improvement              At least five KabupatedKota           Year 1 Develop methods for
    Groups in selected villages         staff (per district) trained in       group formatidn and skill
    are supported by local              a diverse range of group              development suited to

                                                     32
governments with technical,         livelihoods activities              KabupatenKota staff skills
administrative, and financial       Methodologies for group             after training
skills, and enable access to        selection, formation and            Identify proven opportunities
relevant information and            strengthening available and         for women to improve
prioritize opportunities.           documented                          household livelihoods in
                                    75% satisfaction with group         support of general poverty
                                    and village selection process       reduction
                                    Improved diversity of
                                    livelihoods as indicated in
                                    monitoring survevs
                                              Y



         Intermediate                    Intermediate Results               Use of Results
         Results                         Indicators                         Monitoring
Component 2
Agricultural and Other
Livelihoods Improvement
Outcome:                            At least 20% of livelihood          Year 1. Design Group
Livelihood groups in                groups are fully functional at      empowerment programs
adopting an agreed package          mid-term and are being              Year 2 Livelihood
of technical, social, and           supported by functional             improvement packages
marketing skills for                nursery and other supply            refined and available for use
improvement of cocoa,               systems                             in particular geographic and
rubber, rice, vegetable,            At least 40% of livelihood          ethnic situations
livestock and other                 groups adopt project
livelihood activities.              recommendations by project
                                    conclusion relative to
                                    baseline
                                        Intermediate Resutts                Use of Results
                                        Indicators                          Monitoring


Outcome :                           Project management team             Year 1 Design procedures
A system of management,             established, staff trained and      and equip the project
monitoring and evaluation           using systems and                   management team at
established within the PMU          procedures aligned with             KabupaterdKota level to
for project implementation          World Bank procurement              carry on work after project
and longer term support to          and safeguards                      conclusion
livelihood development              methodologies                       Year 2 Refine management,
                                    Baseline survey, benchmark          monitoring and evaluation
                                    monitoring surveys and              techniques and procedures in
                                    evaluation in proposed              support of ongoing
                                    project areas completed on          initiatives by
                                    time                                Kabupateaota
                                    Annual and final audit,             Government through APBN
                                    procurement and financial           or other funding
                                    management reports
                                    available on time

These outcomes would be measured using a combination of baseline and monitoring surveys
conducted by both the field consultants on a routine basis, using family and village books, and for
financial aspects by an M&E team leader supported by four M&E field staff.

                                                  33
Monitoring arrangements

Key indicators

1. The project development objective (PDO) to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery by
                                              is
improving the ability of the Government to work with poor rural households in Nias to identify,
develop and sustain livelihood opportunities.

2. This objective will be achieved by:
   i. Identifying and addressing health, community organization, knowledge, input and
        marketing constraints to livelihood development in selected Kecamatans of Nias Island.
        The project would train and empower both smallholders and government staff to support
        village group activities developed under project supervision. It would emphasize
        successful small business development rather than widespread agricultural development
        so that initiatives were sustainable in the longer term under individual initiative. Training
        to support this aim would thus emphasize the organizational, finance and marketing
        aspects of small business.
   ii. Implementing agricultural and other livelihood improvement activities.
   iii. Raising the capacity of KabupatenKota government to manage, monitor and evaluate
        finance programs and personnel in support of smallholders.

Component 1 Community and Institutional

3. This component would empower beneficiaries and local government staff to acquire the
management, financial and technical skills to promote and sustain group livelihood activities.

4. Outcomes are: Livelihood Improvement Groups in selected villages supported by local
governments with administrative, social and financial skills and access to relevant information to
prioritize opportunities

5. The key indicators are:
   i. At least five KabupatenKota staff (per district) trained and implementing a diverse range
        of group livelihoods activities.
   ii. Methodologies for group selection, formation and strengthening available and
        documented.
   iii. At least 75% satisfaction with group and village selection process.
   iv. Improved diversity of livelihoods as indicated in monitoring surveys.

Component 2 Livelihoods Improvement

6 . The component would function through small group and village level grants and through
assistance to KabupatenKota government in agricultural support services.

7. The objective of this component is to address the issue of low productivity and poor post
harvest processing and market prices (for rubber, cocoa, rice, and livestock). This component is
focused on livelihood improvement goals, rather than area targets for replanting or rehabilitation.
The component will also support marketing for livelihood groups.

8. For women's and farmer group activities, the component would function through group
grants of US$2,500 depending on the level of procurement of other inputs and the size of the
group. In particular cases, the PMU may choose to establish demonstration households where

                                                34
such demonstrations influence a wider community. Grants would allow farmers to choose a
menu of activities in cocoa, rubber and livestock improvement and to decide for themselves, the
levels of funding of activities in each of these enterprises. The aim would be to promote
ownership of the activities and also the use of farming systems approaches to facilitate
sustainable agriculture through mixed crop/livestock systems.

9. Outcomes are: Livelihood Groups in selected priority Kecamatans adopting an agreed
package of social and technical skills for improvement of cocoa, rubber, rice, livestock
production and other activities.

10. The key indicators are:
       i. At least 20% of the livelihood groups are fully functional at mid-term and supported
           by functional nursery and other supply systems
       ii. At least 40% of livelihood communities adopt all or part of project recommendations
           by project conclusion relative to baseline

Component 3 Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

11. This component responds to the need for development of management and technical capacity
for implementation of livelihoods investments in Nias within the KabupatenKota and Kecamatan
administrations. The component would provide the necessary project and financial management,
procurement and monitoring and evaluation support through a consultant package with core
competencies in (i.) program management (financial management, procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, safeguards, etc) and (ii.) technical support for implementation (technical assistance
and group strengthening). The Monitoring and Evaluation team for Component 3 would be
responsible for the elaboration of the baseline survey, monitoring surveys, and impact evaluation
as a project completion report.

12. Outcomes are: A system of management, monitoring and evaluation established within the
PMU for project implementation and longer term support to livelihood development.

13. Key Indicators are:
    i. Project management team established, staff trained and using systems and procedures
         aligned with World Bank procurement and safeguards methodologies.
    ii. Baseline survey, benchmark monitoring surveys and evaluation in proposed project areas
         completed on time.
    iii. Annual and final audit, procurement and financial management reports available on time.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Staffing Strategy

14. An M&E team consisting of a National specialist (M&E Design Coordination) and three
regional M&E/Quality Assurance coordinators would work with the agricultural extension teams
in both upland (cocoa, rubber, cocoa, livestock) and lowland (rice and most women's activities).
The team would be responsible for assistance to field extension staff for the preparation of sample
baseline surveys of farmer groups, and the benchmark surveys of those groups conducted after 12
months. They would also be responsible for midterm and final evaluation reports. Data from their
work would guide and modify the implementation process.




                                                35
15. Selection criteria for the Consultant facilitators would include:

 i. Professional staff with significant experience in working with the participating ethnic
      groups, including relevant language skills, and willingness to work at the village level for
      extended periods.
 ii. Ability to KabupatenKota staff in monitoring farmer and women's producer groups, and in
      baseline survey techniques.
 iii. Familiarity with the social background of Nias. Facilitators from Nias would be specifically
      excluded from work in their own communities.

16. Reporting A general baseline survey report conducted initially to determine conditions before
formation of farmer groups in any area. A smaller baseline would be conducted as a new set of
groups was formed. The surveys would establish current income and expenditure patterns,
crop/livestock data (yields, prices, input costs and labor, crop/livestock losses and market
destinations) and to note particular household or social problems in any area which might affect
implementation. The data would be used to establish outline value chains to ultimate markets.

 17. A benchmark survey monitoring report for a sample set of producer groups would be formed.
The benchmark survey would be conducted after 12 months and serve as a midterm report on the
groups. It would be used to modify and extend or contract activities and suggest additional
training of Dinas' staff, consultants and farmer leaders.

18. Agriculture Extension Consultants would be supported by three experienced senior
consultants as coordinators and by KabupatenKota PPK extension staff with support from LEDP.

 19. The women's groups would consist of a National women's livelihood specialist managing a
team of consultant staff in developing and coordinating the women's program. They would use
the same set of surveys as for the agriculture group, and supported by the same consultant
M&E/Quality Assurance team.

20. The Rice program would develop as an input supply system rather than as group activities,
since the program would involve mainly existing Desa level Kelompok Tani known to the Kepala
Desa, whose cooperation in identifying individuals for rice seed production and households for
expanded paddy production in year 2, would be essential. Most of the implementation and
monitoring would be conducted by the Rice program Logistics manager and a team under her
consisting of four coordinators and Dinas Pertanian staff.

2 1. The Program Steering Committee at the central level, and the Local Steering Committee at
the sub-national level, will monitor and oversee that the program is implemented according to
design, objectives, and schedule.




                                                 36
                            Annex 4: Detailed project description
          Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

Overview of Program Activities and Technical Approach

1. Nias has historically lagged other districts in the Province of North Sumatra and the nation in
terms of economic and social development. The Nias LEDP will address these issues in a short
timeframe by the use of intensive consultancy inputs to develop focused livelihood activities
around well-trained community groups, and support to improve local government capacity.

2. Providing food security is seen as a basic platform of livelihood development. In the rice
sector, the aim of the project would be to largely replace local low yielding varieties with high
yielding varieties shown to have local taste preference and to demonstrate the favorable cost
benefit ratio available from use of balanced fertilizer inputs. The project would not aim at
developing exports but rather at reducing import dependence because of the uncertainties of
transport during bad weather and the variability of world markets. Reduction of women's labor
by mechanization of processing should also help to develop wider opportunities for livelihood
development by women.

3. The women's program established under Component 1 and implemented under Component 2
would support a wide variety of both agricultural and off farm activities using the initial training
to assist women in identifying local opportunities. As in the agricultural groups, an aim would be
strengthening existing groups formed under programs by Oxfam, Dinas Pertanian and bilateral
partners wherever possible.

4. The proposed project design is largely based on similar earlier interventions undertaken under
the OXFAM livelihoods project (2008) and the work of the Kabupateflota Development Project
in Nias and elsewhere in Indonesia. In OXFAM work improved seed and fertilizer inputs had a
major impact on rice productivity, proving that yields of up to 7tlha are possible. Demonstration
areas of cocoa showed that yield increases of 0.4t/ha are possible and that farmers are keen to
acquire new knowledge on crop improvement. Twenty functioning women's groups are present
and have organized finance and administration systems. They are eager to participate in the
project.

5. The proposed project also addresses the problem of poverty among farmers as this affects
their ability to pay for inputs in the medium term after project completion. By starting with
simple interventions such as better rice seed, pruning and grafting in cocoa or using benefits from
improving quality and price in rubber, the project allows a gradual improvement process to be
developed, suited to a longer term process financed by farmers themselves from yield and price
improvement.

6 . A strategy to move from emergency response to a capacity building or development phase is
inherent in the design of the intervention. The LEDP has been prepared with due consideration of
the on-going technical assistance projects and programs targeting capacity building and
institutional strengthening in Nias.

7. The Nias LEDP will reduce food shortages and provide a demonstration of how a
combination of standard operating procedures can be used to develop a workable outreach system
to farmer groups with minimum public funding. For farmers, it will demonstrate not only how to


                                                37
increase output but how to make a successful business out of agricultural and off-farm activities
in addition to meeting food security needs.

8. Nias is prone to frequent earthquakes, and the poor logistics network and high levels of
poverty make the residents particularly vulnerable to natural disasters. Nias LEDP will address
food security (through increased supply and diversification) as well as introduce new sources of
livelihood incomes. These expected program results, together with pragmatic training and
awareness initiatives integrated into the project (through the consultants working with local
government and directly with communities) will increase disaster resilience on the island.

9. The program is augmented by the L O implemented Nias Rural Access and Capacity
Building program (Nias-RACB). Nias-RACB will improve the rural road network by upgrading
and expanding the existing farmer to market road network to an all weather access standard,
working in the same economic clusters as Nias-LEDP. Both projects are operationally
independent, but share the same steering committees at the national and local levels to facilitate
improved coordination and maximize program impacts.

10. Nias LEDP has three components, focused on (i) empowerment, (ii.) implementation, and
(iii) program management and monitoring. The components are described in more detail below.

Component 1: Livelihoods Group and Institutional Empowerment (US$1.95 million)

11. The objective of this component is to empower beneficiaries (livelihood groups and district
government) to improve their capacity to acquire the social, management, financial and technical
skills for livelihoods activities. Most of the activities involve technical training and group
facilitation, and include:

12. Training for Agriculture Livelihoods Groups: in social, technical, marketing, and financial
aspects of livelihood development for up to 50 mixed gender groups (up to 40 households per
group) for agricultural development. These groups would be located mainly in the poorer and
more isolated villages (although to accelerate project implementation, groups in less remote areas
will also be targeted), and would participate in farming systems development involving rubber
improvement cocoa rehabilitation and replanting, plus livestock breeding activities for income
improvement and manure supply.

13. About 25 consultants (agriculture extension technical experts) would be fielded, with each
consultant assigned to a cluster of 2 groups. They would also provide both training and physical
and financial monitoring for Component 3. Individual consultants-facilitators specialized in group
formatiodorganization may be employed at the start to accelerate program socialization and
group formation before the mobilization of the primary consultant firm. The actual livelihood
activities, to be implemented in Component 2, could be commodity oriented or a mix of activities.
The field-based agriculture extension technical experts will also support monitoring and
evaluation, and be an initial point of contacts for communities to lodge and resolve complaints.

14. Training for Women's Livelihoods Groups: in social, technical, marketing, and financial
aspects of livelihood development for up to 50 mixed gender groups (up to 40 households per
group). Women's groups are specifically included because they offer an opportunity to develop a
wider range of livelihood opportunities in addition to primary production (retail, processing,
marketing, business skills transfer). A wider diversity of opportunities will in turn enhance
resilience of incomes against economic and disaster related stress.


                                               38
15. About 10 consultant technical coordinators would be hired to work with women's groups
(under similar terms of reference to mixed groups), each assigned to organize and train a cluster
of 5 groups. The consultant technical coordinators will have skills in organization and livelihoods
development, with an emphasis on agriculture. A menu of options for livelihood activities will be
provided to the groups - the technical consultant coordinators may draw on the expertise and
pooled resources from the consultant team to address selected activities where they as individuals
may not be subject matter specialist. The field-based technical coordinators will also support
monitoring and evaluation, and be an initial point of contacts for communities for lodging and
resolving complaints.

16. Training and Eauiument for Local Government Amiculture Services staff to facilitate further
involvement for activities beyond the project life. The component will provide assistance to
KabupatenKota Governments in the implementation of an agricultural support services program
to the rice, livestock, and tree crops sub-sectors under Component 2. The assistance will involve
training in public expenditure planning, selection of target areas, balancing activities to improve
gender equity, and coordination of supply of foundation and commercial rice seed and
appropriate fertilizer. It may also assist with other services, such as livestock vaccination.

17. The consultants conducting the trainings for local government and community groups (for
Components 1 and 2) will include pragmatic measures to educate and integrate disaster resilience
interventions into the program. The consultants will also support local government by
coordinating with other organizations in Nias (such as the UN) who have more focused programs
in this area.

Component 2: Agricultural and Other Livelihoods Improvement (US4.60million)

18. Component 2 supports implementation of program activities (set-up though Component 1)
utilizing small group Community Support-grants and technical support services. This component
has three sub-components implementing: (i.) agriculture and women's livelihoods groups
activities, (ii.) priority community agriculture and livelihood facilities, and (iii.) support to local
government agriculture services.

19. Sub-component 1. Imulementation of Agriculture and Women's Livelihoods Group
Activities. This sub-component will implement activities in (i.) 50 agriculture livelihoods groups
and (ii.) 50 women's livelihoods groups - each group composed of roughly 40 households. This
component addresses the issue of low productivity and poor post harvest processing and market
prices (for rubber, cocoa, rice, and livestock), and is focused on livelihood improvement goals,
rather than area targets for replanting. The component will also provide support to f k e r groups
for marketing.

20. Both women's groups and mixed gender agricultural groups would be encouraged to engage
in some form of breeding livestock production. Grants would be disbursed in two tranches to
ensure animal welfare by requiring construction of housing and provision of feed and medical
care (disease prevention for hog cholera, Newcastle disease in chickens and internal parasite
control) prior to acquisition of livestock. A typical group would acquire about 8 breeding sows, or
day old chicks to develop about 100 laying hens and their progeny. They would be trained in the
production of compost for tree crops based on the manure from livestock production.




                                                 39
Use of Communitv Support Grants

21. Each livelihood group (agriculture or women's groups) would apply for a small grant (up to
US$2,500: disbursed in two tranches, the second tranche pending satisfactory use of the first)
used against of menu of activities in value added cocoa, rubber, and livestock improvements
(other livelihoods are included). The aim is to promote ownership of the activities and the use of
farming systems approaches to facilitate sustainable agriculture practices through mixed
crop/livestock systems. Small livelihood groups would also be used to address both the low social
status of women in Nias and their ability to develop innovative income generation activities
involving both production and value added.

22. The emphasis and use of the Community Support grant is on training and increasing
knowledge and practices; and not as focused on the process of group formation, community
governance, and administration of the Community Support-grant compared to many CDD
projects. Modeled after the Oxfam livelihoods program (successfully implemented in Nias) - the
project uses a `farmer-field school approach' with Community Support grants primarily to
supplement training activities. Trainings are implemented within a 10 to 12 month period
following group formation - but facilitators will continue to return to the field after the training
period to provide follow-up support, check on results of demonstration plots, and continue to
advise communities on livelihoods initiatives.

23. Technical trainers will be field-based, with intensive interaction and presence in the
communities they are assigned. In addition, trainers will be an ad hoc resource available to
greater community, outside their groups.

24. The formation of livelihood groups through the project is expected to increase the exchange
of knowledge and ideas within the community, improve social networks (for growers, sellers, and
buyers), increase economies of scale for input purchases and post-harvest handling - as well as
have spillover demonstration affects to individuals outside of the established groups. The
formation of the groups is also a means for organizing training activities based on the `field-
school' methodology.

25. Meeting the development objectives does not require the long-term sustainability of the
farmer or women's groups. Project beneficiaries may choose to adopt and continue with the
benefits acquired from group activities (and are expected to), but the training will also ensure
beneficiaries develop appropriate skills to improve individual livelihoods. However, it is
anticipated that participants will realize the benefits of working in groups, and will continue
carrying-out many activities collectively after the program.

26. Training activities are not dependent on the Community Support-grant to commence. After
groups are formed and an initial assessment of the demand and preferences for livelihood
activities is made - consultant trainers (together with KabupatenKota extension services) will
start implementation of a core demand-based curriculum. Consultants will have training materials
and basic provision of supplies to start actives (simple tools/equipment, seeds for demonstration
plots, training manuals, etc) to begin trainings. Consultants will have an improved understanding
of the group capacity and demands through initial interventions, which will benefit later work to
develop their plans for use of Community Support-grant funds.

27. Unlike other CDD block-grant models, allocation of block-grant resources is not based on
competition for limited funds between competing groups. For Nias-LEDP, once groups are
established and satisfactorily demonstrate their commitment to participate in (and adopt) training

                                                40
practices, and show sufficient organization and capacity - the field-based technical trainer will
support the groups to develop and implement their proposals for demonstration livelihood
activities supported by the Community Support-grant. Further, the field-based consultants will
help organize the groups and facilitate training for basic skills required for the groups to
administer the Community Support-grant. This approach is appropriate for Nias, given the social
dynamics, limited capacity, and time to implement the program.

28. Sub-component 2. Support to Local Government Agriculture Services. This sub-component
will strengthen agricultural support services from the KabupatenKota Government to; (is)
develop improved rice food security, (ii.) develop skills in nursery management for tree crops,
(iii.) improve agriculture diversification, and (iv.) strengthen support service (e.g. veterinary
medicine supply via small cold chains, marketing linkages, etc). All activities will be supported
by Nias-LEDP consultants.

29. Major activities for local government supported rice improvement include support to
Kelompok Tani (lead farmers) with foundation seed of high-yield varieties and fertilizer inputs.
The fresh seed developed in the first year would be distributed to rice-producing households in
the second year, along with a `trial bag' of NPK 15:15:15 and urea fertilizer to expose farmers to
the benefits available from fertilizer. A total of 10,000 ha, and approximately 10,000 farmers in
50 villages would benefit from improved seed over 2 years. The emphasis would be on selecting
poorer farmers who would not otherwise have access to the benefits of soil amelioration, which
the inputs would provide.

30. Other sub-component activities would be used to develop opportunities to support livestock
and crop activities where there was no private sector supplier, or where village level services
could be developed (e.g. village vets, community tree crop nurseries) to improve timeliness of
supply. Given the growth in participatory extension, support would also be provided to Dinas'
staff to provide information on sources of advice and services outside government as in the
Farmer Empowerment through Agricultural Technology and information (FEATI) (ongoing to
2012).

3 1. The sub-component will also establish tree crops nurseries managed by KabupatenKota
government. The nurseries will introduce better yielding varieties of rubber and cocoa trees, more
appropriate for Nias. KabupateniKota extension staff will also learn nursery management through
a participatory learning by doing approach - which they can later transfer these skills to
communities. The seedlings will be distributed to livelihood groups in component 1, and made
available to poor farmers not covered in component 1. The project would support provision of an
incremental 250,000 budded rubber rootstocks and 250,000 grafted or clonal cocoa rootstocks in
plastic sleeves from nurseries in Medan (Rubber Research Institute) or Java (Cocoa and Coconut
Research Institute) as the basis of further propagation by trained smallholders at village and
KabupatenKota nurseries set up under the project. In addition, promising material from the best
performing trees in terms of yield and disease and insect resistance would be used as scion
material in the nurseries so that grafted or budded planting materials rather than unselected
seedlings become widely available The project would provide the necessary farm level tools for
grafting, thinning and pruning. A particular emphasis would be placed on understanding local
value chains and discounts for poor quality in an effort to improve the competitive position of
smallholders.

32. The logistics to bring improved plant materials and seed and fertilizer to the beneficiaries
would be developed by the consultants and wherever possible (e.g. KabupatenKota nurseries)
handed over to local government on completion. The project would recognize the low capacity to

                                               41
manage technically complex operations such as plant breeding in Nias and would not develop
research stations or seed farms. Instead it would import foundation seed and purchase fertilizer
for distribution.

33. Sub-component 3 includes budget (US$l50,000) for the PMU to support special studies,
trainings, activities, etc (each activity limited to US$50,000). These activities will address ad-hoc
program needs (for activities supporting livelihoods not addressed through other components)
arising during program implementation.

                                                          million)
Component 3: Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US%1.65

34. The objective of this component is to develop management and technical capacity for
implementation of livelihoods programs in Nias within the KabupatenKota and Kecamatans, as
well as with KPDT. A consultant team will provide the necessary project and financial
management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation support. Services include:

35. Promam Management to support the Program Management Unit (PMU) and Program
Steering Committees (PSCs). The majority of consultant resources will be field-based with core
expertise supporting i.) monitoring and evaluation, ii.) financial management, iii.) safeguards, iv.)
quality assurance, v.) procurement, vi.) adherence to the governance and accountability
framework, and vii.) program reporting.

36. Livelihoods Support will provide the necessary technical consultants at district and village
levels, with dual roles in group strengthening through technical assistance under components 1
and 2. The Monitoring and Evaluation team would be responsible for the elaboration of the
baseline survey, monitoring surveys and impact evaluation as a project completion report, prior to
project closure.

37. Consultants will work under a Project Management Unit (PMU), which is considered
appropriate due to the low capacity of existing local government management, technical and
financial systems

38. Because the preferences of communities cannot be understood in advance, the budget for
each of the three components would be reviewed regularly to allow flexibility in disbursement.
The allocations are thus indicative rather than fixed.

Background for the Group Approach

39. A key challenge in livelihood development in Nias is to facilitate change in household
income and expenditure whilst having minimum impact on existing incomes, the environment or
village level institutions. Thus specialized industrial style development with large scale clearing
of existing smallholder tree crops is not acceptable. Development must make gradual changes
recognizing existing farming systems which have evolved to minimize risk in an environment of
social tension, climatic variability, poor access to markets, and low capacity. The project also has
to consider the special requirements of women as entrepreneurs as well as sources of labor. It
will work in some very isolated areas involving rubber and cocoa development in a short time
frame. To address these challenges among individual households given the area targets proposed
would be challenging in a short period.

40. A further challenge in implementing this type of work is to link farmers to markets and to
develop economies of scale in production and input supply. Doing so requires an approach based

                                                42
on the supply of goods, technical information, and services resulting in collective action - all
which benefits substantially from the formation of groups.

41. Nias-LEDP would support the development of capacity at village level through development
of village level responsibility systems agreed with Desa level government. In this approach, a
Desa development committee would take responsibility for facilitating activity selection at either
village or group level. It would facilitate farmer group formation and self-monitoring.

42. The project may, when appropriate, coordinate with PNPM to utilize village and sub district
institutions for planning and implementation. Farmer leaders would be trained at the PMU,
enabling them to guide their fellow group members in proposal development. The incentives
provided to farmers to follow project conditions for input supply would be the value of technical
guidance and input supply. The disincentive for poor performance would thus be withdrawal of
assistance from LEDP after the first season and the penalty thus imposed on that group and
village as the project moved on to another village in the same village cluster. Monitoring
indicators would include satisfaction with the selection process for group and village level grants.

Group Formation and Scheduling

43. Group formation is a specialized social process. An experienced locally based international
consultant firm would be contracted by LEDP to develop a group formation methodology,
undertake the formation of the 50 producer groups in the uplands and the 50 women's groups in
uplands and lowlands, and the baseline survey among 25 upland groups and 15 women's groups.
The groups would then receive technical support from the Consultant's management, contracted
stafflconsultants and some Kabupatemota staff. The schedule for group formation will be
accelerated (by increasing facilitator resources through the firm, and by using individual experts
hired under the program before the firm is mobilized).

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Staffing Strategy

44. An M&E team consisting of a coordinator and three regional M&E field monitors would
work with the agricultural extension teams in both upland (cocoa, rubber, cocoa, livestock) and
lowland (rice and most women's activities owing to access constraints). The team would be
responsible for assistance to field extension staff in preparation of baseline surveys of each set of
farmer groups formed and the bench mark surveys of those groups conducted after 12 months.
They would also be responsible for midterm and final evaluation reports. Data from their work
would guide and modify the implementation process. (details on M&E framework and staffing
are in Annex 3).

Outreach Approach

45. Conventional practice in support of GO1 programs supports travel and per diem costs for
Government employees. Although this project supports the GOI's policy of village group
formation and development, extension services at the village level has not, in many cases,
commenced in the project area and thus cannot be fully supported in the conventional manner.
Instead the project would adopt the following approach to technical assistance.

46. Rice Improvement Sub-component: would be the responsibility of the Dinas Pertanian in
Nias (supported by consultants) given their familiarity with the crop and the producers. For the
first year activities, each selected Kelompok Tani (lead farmer) in every rice-growing village
would be provided with both foundation (second generation) seed of high yield varieties to be

                                                 43
selected in cooperation with rice breeding stations and a package of fertilizer inputs. These lead
farmers would also be assured of a market for their outputs by the project so that free seed for
about 0.5 ha (approximately 30 kg) could be distributed to every rice-producing household in
year 2.

47. For rice seed multiplication groups allowance is also made for purchase of post harvest
processing units based around a thresher, winnower, tractor and trailer, which could be developed
by either mixed or women's groups as a mobile post harvest handling business among villages or
within several larger village. The size of the inputs involved (about US$5,000) is justified by the
smaller number of groups in this activity and their potential wider impact. The activity would be
supported by the training under Component 1

48. The second year of the work would utilize the fertilizer responsive varieties and fresh seed
developed in year 1, and provide `trial bags' of NPK 15:15:15 and urea fertilizer to expose
farmers to the benefits available from fertilizer or to demonstrate the value of additional balanced
fertilizer in recognition of the fact that many farmers use urea (nitrogen fertilizer) only. A total of
 10,000 ha, and approximately 10,000 farmers would be involved. The emphasis would be on
selecting poorer farmers who would not otherwise have access to the benefits of soil
amelioration, which the inputs would provide. Technical assistance would focus on key times
such as plantinghasal fertilizer application, mid season topdressing and rouging (removal of
types) in rice to ensure separation of varieties.

49. Women's and Farmer Group Activities: The activities in rubber, cocoa livestock, and other;
as farming systems or in women's groups would involve a systematic collection of data to
support, monitor and evaluate the achievement of indicators by consultant staff supported as
possible by Dinas staff. The senior consultant staff, and KabupatenKotaKecamatan staff would
conduct monthly visits to a selection of groups. Field-based technical consultants would live
either in or close to the target villages.

Consultant Support

50. The PMU will be supported by one firm for program management and implementation
technical support. Before the firm is mobilized, individual consultants (national and international)
will support the PMU with key tasks to carry-out upstream work to facilitate the transition to the
consulting firm and to start implementation. Tasks include, preparation of the project manual,
project coordination and socialization of with Nias communities and local government,
procurement support, financial management, and general operations advisory services.

Relationship with Nias Rural Access and Capacity Building Program (Nias-RACB)

51. The L O implemented Nias RACB (funded through the MDF) will increase rural access
through improvements (to an all weather and low-maintenance design standard) and expansion of
the rural road network in Nias. The majority of roads improved through the program will be
existing foot trails, dirt paths, and KabupatenKota road. All work will improve access to markets
and social services. Further, the ILO investments will be implemented in the same economic
clusters as Nias-LEDP. Given the RACB's focus on improving and targeting the overall network
and maximizing population served, RACB will have positive impacts on the same communities
where LEDP is implemented, and improve overall economic development in Nias.

52. Both programs are operationally independent -- neither program is dependent on the other to
achieve its development objectives. While both funded by the MDF, LEDP is implemented on-

                                                 44
budget through KPDT, and RACB `off-budget' through the LO.The two projects share the same
national level steering committee (composed of Bappenas and KPDT) to improve higher-level
coordination. At the local level, both coordinate though the same Local Steering Committee.
There are no safe-guard linkages between the programs (see Annex 10). The balance between
operational independence, with coordination at the national and local steering committees will
help maximize impacts for both programs, while ensuring there are no significant reputational
risks with these arrangements.

Identification of Economic Clusters and Project Areas

53. Nias-LEDP and Nias RACB will operate in the same economic clusters in Nias.

54. The primary criteria used to identify the economic clusters were i.) population and ii.)
intensity of rubber6 and/or rice cultivation'. Additional factors were used to refine the initial
screening, including: avoidance of environmentally sensitive/protected areas, social
                ',
considerations proximity to adjacent clusters, connectivity to the strategic road network,
exclusion of urban areas, and verification of data through field trips and consultation with local
government and BRR.'In total, 20 out of 40 sub-districts in the Nias islands are selected as
eligible areas for the Nias-LEDP.

55. The methodology and selection of economic clusters was conducted in consultation with the
BRR, provincial and local governments (Bappeda and Dinas Agriculture), KPDT, and ILO - all
parties reached consensus on preliminary list at a workshop in Medan in August 2008 which was
revised later to respond to the evolvement of new local authority jurisdiction areas at another
meeting in Medan in April 13, 2010. At the start of the project, and periodically throughout, the
program areas may be adjusted to accommodate field conditions or for other reasons to support
meeting the project objectives.

56. The final process for selecting project areas, and group selection agreed and presented in the
project operations manual. Geographic coverage area for the program may need to be adjusted to
accommodate further considerations for logistics, implementation issues and capacity, balancing
resources between newly formed districts and communities, and the need accelerate
implementation by working in more accessible areas. The preliminary clusters and targeted sub-
districts are highlighted below.

    District



                                          I Tuhembarua                 I Tuhembarua
                                          I Saw0                       I Saw0                      I
                                          I   Sitolu Ori               I Sitolu Ori                I
                                          I   Alasa                    I Alasa                     I
6
  There is no accurate cacao production data, so rubber was used as a proxy since cacao is grown in all
rubber areas.
' Population and agriculture cultivation data were weighted evenly for the initial selection criteria.
  Palau Palau Batu, was selected because of its isolation, and high incidence of poverty
  Official BPS statistics for Nias are often unreliable. Data used to identify the clusters was field checked
to ensure consistency with empirical findings, and other sources such as the ADB's ETSP program.

                                                       45
 Kota Gunungsitoli             1      I Idanoi
Proposed Implementation Schedule

57. KPDT will start advertising for consultants before negotiations, with a target for mobilization
of the main consultant package by July 2010. Before mobilization of the firm, individual
consultants will be hired to support the PMU in key enabling tasks to minimize the `upstream'
preparation work required by the primary consultants. Tasks will include selection of economic
clusters and beneficiary groups, program socialization with local government and communities,
finalization of the project operations manual (POM), etc. Some individual consultants will
continue with the project following mobilization of the firm to support in keys areas such as
financial management, procurement, and program management/administration.

58. Consultants will start working with the selected groups upon mobilization. The staffing
strategy is to provide sufficient resources up-front for an initial `push' (versus a phased roll-out
approach) to launch the project and facilitate expedient delivery of training activities.
Consultants will initially focus on organizing and training livelihood groups and local
government (Component 1 activities) to prepare for implementing activities under Component 2
(estimated to commence in late 2010). This will provide sufficient time to complete the major
training programs for group livelihoods (requiring 10-12 months), formation and training of
district and community nurseries, and for rice intensification program interventions.

59. To help maintain the proposed implementation schedule, KPDT will:
 i. Use individual consultants for preparation of `upstream' work in preparation for
     mobilization of the firm, thus reducing tasks and start up time for the prime consultant fm
     once mobilized.
 ii. Utilize procurement advisors to expedite and improve quality of deliverables and reduce the
     risk of procurement delays (for QCBS and subsequent goods packages).


                                                 46
 ...
 111."Front-load" the staffing plan, so more consultant resources (with an emphasis on field-
     based facilitators) are available at the start, versus a phased role-out approach.
 iv. Employ sufficient consultant resources to expedite implementation, given the challenging
     field conditions (logistics, communications, capacity, etc).
 V. Recognize field facilitators are key for successful implementation of the project, and will
     ensure compensation is sufficient to avoid the high attrition rates experienced under other
     CDD projects in Nias.

                           Table 2. Indicative Implementation Schedule

.. ..
 .      .   . . .. . .-.

                                                           .   .
                                                               .   .   .   .   .   .




                                              47
                                       Annex 5: Project Costs
              Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

                                           Table 1. Project Cost by Category (US$)

 Category                                                               2010              201 1                 2012               Total
 Community Support Grants                                              50,000         210,000                80,000         340,000
 Goods and non-consultants'                                   2,160,000              3,360,000           1,710,000        7,230,000
 Services; Training and Consultants'
 Services

 Incremental Operating Costs                                       190,000            315,000               125,000         630,000


 Base Cost                                                    2,400,000              3,885,000           1,915,000        8,200,000


                                        Table 2. Project Cost by Component (US$)
                                                                                     Consultant       Study Tours,    Govenunent
                                                                       Consultant    Operating        Training, and    Operating
                                              Goods       Grants        Services       Costs             Studies        costs          Total


Go1IOC (travel, per dKm, a d s , etc)                 0            0             0             0                  0       300,000        300,000
consultmg Operakg costs                               0            0             0       650,000                  0                      650,000
Consultmg Sewices                                     0            0     1,000,000             0                  0                    1,000,000
Sub-Total                                             0            0     1,000,000       650,000                  0       300,000      1,950,000




Agriculture Inputs                           2,100,000             0             0             0                  0                0   2,100,000
FarmEquipment                                  160,000             0             0             0                  0                0     160,000
Processing Machinery                           240,000             0             0             0                  0                0     240,000
Consulting OperatingCosts                             0            0             0       340,000                  0                0     340,000
Consultant Senices                                    0            0      900,000                 0               0                0     900,000
S M y Tours, Training, & Special Studies
and suppties                                   190,000             0             0                0         330,000             0        520,000
Grards (vinage aIKI goup)                             0   340,000                0             0                  0             0        340,000
Sub-Total                                    2,690,000    340,000         900,000        340,000            330,000             0      4,600,000
Sub-Total (contingency for Block Grants)                           0                                                                   4,600,000




Consuitant Senices                                    0            0     1,300,000             0                  0             0      1,300,000
Consultard Operating Costs                            0            0             0       350,000                  0             0        350,000

S M y Tours, Training & Special Studies               0            0             0             0                  0             0               0
Sub-Total                                             0            0     1,300,000       350,000                  0            0       1,650,000

Total                                       2,690,000     340,000        3,200,000     1,340,000            330,000       300,000      8,200,000




                                                                        48
                         Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
         Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program


1. The project will be implemented at the central, provincial, distinct, and sub-district level in
the five districts of Nias Islands, expected to cover 18 sub-districts.

Project Implementation

2. Bappenas coordinates all Aceh and Nias reconstruction work following the BRR's exit, and is
the executing agency for Nias-LEDP. The Ministry of Disadvantaged Areas (KPDT) is the
implementing agency, and head of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and Secretariat. The
Local Steering Committee (LSC), based in Nias, is composed of the North Sumatra Provincial
Government and all districts in Nias. The World Bank, as partner agency with KPDT, will
oversee and supervise the program.

Central Government Level

3. Bauuenas, as the GoI's executing agency, will be responsible for Nias-LEDP's overall
planning and evaluation consistent with the grant agreement between the World Bank and the
GOI. Bappenas will also coordinate with the Ministry of Finance (MOF), KPDT and other central
government agencies.

4. KPDT is responsible for project implementation and budget execution, including making the
annual budget application to the MOF and setting up a project satker (Satuan Kerja) responsible
for management of the annual budget (DIPA). The budget application will be allocated in the
following manner: (i) payment to the consultants and firms supporting KPDT, and (ii) operating
costs of KPDT. Both KPDT and Bappenas are responsible for counterpart financing (government
staff honoraria, taxes and other operational expenses).

5 . Program Steering Committee (PSC). The PSC is composed of Bappenas (Head) and KPDT.
The role of the PSC is to coordinate with the MDF and World Bank. The PSC is responsible for
setting program policies and intergovernmentalcoordination.




                                                      I
6 . Promam Management Unit (PMU) KPDT is the head of the PMU and PMU Secretariat, with
representative office in Jakarta and a larger field office in Nias. The PMU is responsible for
project coordination and implementation - including procurement, monitoring and evaluation,
quality assurance, safeguards, and implementation of the anti-corruption action plan. PMU
resources and activities will be concentrated in the Nias-based PMU office to improve program
delivery and coordination with local government. Consultant services will support program
management of the PMU and project secretariat. All consultants are managed by the PMU.

Provincial and District Government Level

7. Local Steering Committee (LSC). The LSC comprises local and provincial government, and
functions as the coordinating body to represent local development and program priorities, support
operations, and coordinate with the PMU. The North Sumatra Provincial government will lead
the LSC, and Bappeda Nias and Nias Selatan will represent the local government dinas
(agriculture, estate crops, public works, etc) involved in the project. KPDT, as head of the PMU
and secretariat of LSC, will implement with the general priorities of the LSC as guidance.

8. District Government Amiculture AgenciesDinas The departments of agriculture and estate
crops, agriculture extension services (Ketahanan Pangan, Informasi Penyuluhan Pertanian dan
Kehutanan - KPIPPK), and sub-district agriculture extension services (BPP) will coordinate at the
program level through the LSC (represented by Bappeda), and support the PMU and consultants
to implement the project.

9. Camat's Office. Program activities will be coordinated at the kecamatan level between the
PMU and the Camat's office. The Camat will support the project to facilitate consultation,
planning, and group identificatiodorganization with communities.

Community Livelihood Groups (Women and Agriculture)

10. The locations of the community groups will be decided by the PMU, LSC, and in
consultation with the local Camat offices. The PMU, supported by consultants, will conduct field
verification to ensure proposed communities meet required beneficiary criteria per the Project
Manual. The PMU, with the support of consultants, will also coordinate with the Camat offices to
(i.) identify and establish livelihood groups, (ii.) provide technical support and training for
livelihood activities, and (iii) help review group proposals for fbnding suitability. Community
grants are not `competitive' proposals, rather, once community groups are established, the
technical facilitators (consultants) provide training and guidance for implementation of group
livelihood activities. The consultants will evaluate community proposals for suitability and
feasibility before the PMU approves financing.

Consultant Services

11. Individual consultants will be hired to support the PMU during start-up stages for:
preparation of the project manual, program socialization, group formation with livelihoods groups,
independent FM verification, and follow-up procurement of consultant package. Nias-LEDP has
one consultant package supporting the PMU in Program Management and Implementation of
Livelihood activities.

12. Promam Management: This will include sufficient resources to support the PMU to carrying
out all financial management, safeguards, quality assurance, monitoring and evaluation,
reporting, and procurement functions. The majority of consulting resources will be field-based,


                                               50
with some necessary tasks (FM, etc) in Jakarta to expedite program administration. The
consultant deputy team leader for program management would have international experience
managingladministration similar Bawdonor funded project.

13. Livelihoods Implementation Technical Assistance. Will include sufficient staff to support
the PMU to carry-out all technical and field activities. The majority of work will be based in
Nias. Consultants will have appropriate staff of agriculture and extension technical experts (rice,
cacao, rubber, etc) to support trainings to livelihood groups (farmer, women's, and community)
and local government, provide logistics support, nursery management, etc. The consultant team
leader will have international experience on development programs.

Indicative Consultant Staffing Plan for Program Management Tasks




Indicative Consultant Staffing Plan Implementation Technical Assistance
                     Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement
          Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

Summary

1. Total budget estimate is US$8.2 million and will be implemented in three years. This grant
will be funded by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and Nias (MDTF). This project will be
executed by BAPPENAS and implemented by Ministry of Disadvantaged Areas (KPDT).

2. The purpose of the project?s financial management assessment is to determine whether the
financial management system of the grant implementing agency, KPDT, has capacity to produce
timely, relevant and reliable financial information on the project activities, and if the accounting
systems for the project expenditures and underlying internal controls are adequate to meet
fiduciary objectives and allow the Bank to monitor compliance with agreed implementation
procedures and appraise progress towards its objectives.

3. Risks will arise from some factors: (1) high fiduciary risk due to weak control environment in
remote area, particularly in Nias, (2) KPDT? weak capacity in project management which has
been noted in implementation of SPAD (3) budget delays, and (4) community groups? capability
in managing Community Support grants.

4. Some measures have been proposed to mitigate the risks arising from these factors. KPDT
will hire a consultant firm to strengthen KPDT management capacity. The PMU has been advised
it will need to work together with MoF and ensure that budget documents could be issued timely.
Individual FM consultant will be hired to assist PMU during start up stages and for independent
FM verification throughout the project. The individual consultant will support the PMU
management in supporting overall coordination of financial management for the project including
but not limited to, FM monitoring and oversight, payment verification, collating and preparing
Interim Financial Reports and withdrawal applications. A Community Support grantloperations
manual will be developed (utilizing standard operating procedures practiced by PNPM urban and
rural) and should be agreed by the Bank prior disbursement of Community Support grants.
Training will be provided to the community groups to ensure that they understand their
responsibility related to fund accountability. Consultant firm will provide support in Nias. It will
include a FM consultant, who, besides providing FM support to the expenditure at central level,
would support communities in maintaining books of accounts, provide training and review and
verify the reports that the communities prepare on utilization of Community Support grants.

5. In addition to the above measures, an independent financial audit will be carried out annually.
Public exit conference will be conducted to inform audit findings to communities and local
government. The auditor will work with local auditor (Bawasda) as far as possible to have more
coverage areas. Sufficient segregation of duties between technical and financialladministration
aspects will be applied.

6 . Taking into account the risk mitigation measures proposed, overall, the financial management
risks for this financing are assessed as ??High?which can be reduced to ?Substantial? after the
mitigation measures are implemented and have shown results. This assessment has concluded that
with the implementation of the action plan, the proposed financial management arrangements will
satisfy the Bank?s minimum requirements under OPh3P10.02 and are adequate to provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the grant required by the
Bank. More details of the financial management assessment are given below.



                                                52
7. Country Issues. The recently conducted PEFA (Public Expenditures and Financial
Accountability) assessment for Indonesia reflected a mixed picture. The key strength pertains to
transparency and comprehensive budget documentation, and a well defined budget process and
classification which comply with international standards and a strengthened external audit
function. Key weaknesses were identified across various dimensions of the budget execution such
as financial reporting and internal controls. In almost all area of PFM a sound regulatory
framework is now in place. The remaining challenge will be to implement the framework with the
ongoing support from the World Bank and other donors, namely the Government Financial
Management and Revenue Administration Project (GFMRAP) financed by the Bank, and State
Audit Reform Project finance by the Asian Development Bank.

8. This project will employ the government system in respect of the flow of funds from MOF to
KPDT. A Separate manual will be developed for flow of funds arrangements to community
groups.

Project Objectives

9. The higher-level objectives of this project are to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery by
creating an enabling environment for improved livelihoods and human development in the Nias
islands. The development objective is to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery by improving
the ability of the Government to work with poor rural households in Nias to identify, develop and
sustain livelihood opportunities.

10. The project consists of the following components:

        Component 1. Livelihoods Group and Institutional Empowerment (US$1.95 million)
        The objective of this component is to empower beneficiaries (livelihood groups and
        district government) to improve their capacity to acquire the social, management,
        financial and technical skills for livelihoods activities. Most of the activities will involve
        training and group facilitation.

        Component 2. Amicultural and Other Livelihoods Improvement (US$4.60 million)
        This component supports implementation of program activities (set up through
        Component 1) utilizing small group Community Support grants and technical support
        services.

        Component 3. Management. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.65 million)
        The objective of this component is to develop management and technical capacity for
        implementation of livelihoods programs in Nias within KabupatenKota and Kecamatans,
        as well as with KPDT. A consultant team will provide the necessary project and financial
        management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation support.

Strengths and Weaknesses

11. The project has strengths and weaknesses in several areas. The project design has the
following strengths:
        The project will only have one PMU. This will simplify coordination and process during
        project implementation;
        Following government regulations, the implementing agency will have a sufficient
        segregation of duties between technical and financial/administrationaspects.



                                                 53
     12. The main weaknesses noted during the assessment are as follows:
         0  In SPADA implementation, KPDT showed weaknesses in project management capacity.
            The FM rating of SPADA was Moderately Unsatisfactory during last supervision mission
            in February 2009. This was due to, among others, frequent delays of budget availability,
            delays on Community Support grant disbursement, and delays on consultants? selection
            process. During the mission, full time financial management consultant had not been
            hired, although the project has been implemented for some time;
            Community groups may not have adequate capacity to manage Community Support
            grants.

    13. The project?s weaknesses may create some risks for project financial management. However,
    the project includes, among others, the following several mechanisms to mitigate these risks:
            PMC will be hired to strengthen KPDT management capacity. It will include a FM
            consultant, who, besides providing FM support to the expenditure at provincial level,
            would support communities in maintaining books of accounts, provide training and
            review and verify the reports that the communities prepare on utilization of Community
            Support grants.
            An individual FM consultant also will be hired to support PMU in payment verification,
            reporting, replenishment process and other FM arrangements.
            Community Support Grant manual will be developed and training will be provided to the
            community groups to ensure they have adequate knowledge to manage the fund and
            understand their responsibility.

    Summary of Risks and Proposed Mitigating Arrangements

     14. The project?s overall risk assessment and summary of mitigating measures is as follows:

                            able 1. Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures
                            Summary Comments & Risk Mtigaiion Measures



A. Inherent
Risks
1 . Country   Substantial   This operation will rely on government financial          Substantial   N
Level Risks                 management systems. Fiduciary risks normally associated
                            with use of Government systems will therefore apply,
                            especially the wide prevalence of corruption which may
                            impact on the control environment to some degree.
                            The Bank is assisting GO1 to improve its financial
                            management systems through the Government Financial
                            Management and Revenue Administration Project.
2. Entity
specific risks
Implementing High           The implementing agency, KPDT, has experienced in
Entity                      managing the Bank?s project (SPADA and EDFF). KPDT
Organization                will have a representative PMU office in Jakarta and a
                            field office in Nias. The Bank noted KPDT weaknesses in
                            implementing SPADA, such as frequent budget delays,



                                                    54
                                   delays on Community Support grant disbursement and               I
                                   consultants' selection process. For this project, PMC will
                                   be hired to strengthen KPDT management capacity.
                                   Community Support grant will be managed by community
                                   groups. These groups will be trained prior to receive the
                                   grants. The PMU will be supported by PMC, which
                                   includes FM consultant, field-based technical consultants
                                   and, facilitators to ensure proper use of project funds.

                                                                                                        Substantial


B. Control
Risks                          ~




1. Budgeting     High              Activities will be financed 100% by the donor funds and              Substantial   N
                                   budgeted at the central level (KPDT). The risk of timely
                                   availability of budget funds may arise due to possible
                                   delays in APBN issuance and revision to budget
                                   documents. The Bank has experienced in other projects
                                   with KPDT as implementing agency (SPADA and EDFF),
                                   where the budget (or the revision) was delayed causing
                                   delays in implementation.
                                   PMU should work together with MOF and ensure that
                                   budget documents could be issued timely.
2. Internal      High              At PMU level, payment verification will rely on the                  Substantial   Y
Controls                           government system. Although the implementing agency
                                   will have a sufficient segregation of duties between                               Community
                                   technical and financial/ administration aspects, the project                       Support grant
                                   will still face the risk of insufficient payment verification.                     manual
                                   Satker arrangement should ensure sufficient segregation of                         should be
                                   duties between technical and financialfadministration                              agreed with
                                   aspects. This will be emphasized in the project manual.                            the Bank
                                                                                                                      prior to
                               Community Support grant manual will be developed that                                  disbursement
                               includes (but not limited to) community group selection                                of
                               method, disbursement and fund flows arrangement,                                       Community
                               financial records, filing system and financial reporting.                              Support grant
                               Consulting services to the PMU will include FM experts
                               for community training, FM oversight and verSfications of
                               Community Support-grant activities. Further, the P M l i
                               will have an independent FM consultant to veri3 the
                               claims of the larger consultingfirm.

3 . Accounting   Substantial                                                                                          N
                               Government accounting software is used to record all
                               transactions. IFR will be prepared on a quarterly basis
                               and should be received by the Bank not later than 45 days.

4. Flowof        Substantial   An agreement (Surat Perjanjian) will be signed between                   Substantial   N
Fund                           KPDT and the community group before the groups can



                                                              55
                              receive the Community Support grant money. The
                              community group will receive 50% of the amount. Next
                              tranche will be paid after the advance were reported and
                              accounted. Further detail of flow of find mechanism will
                              be described in the Community Support grant manual.

5 . External    Substantial   The project will be audited by an auditor acceptable to the Moderate      N
Audit                         Bank. Annual audit TORS for the project must be
                              acceptable to the Bank. The auditor of the project will
                              have access to financial records and reports of community
                              group. Involvement of local auditors (Bawasda) as far as
                              possible to have more coverage area. Public exit
                              conference by auditors should be included in the audit
                              TOR.
                              Audit o the project's Financial Statements will be
                                       f
                              submitted to the Bank not later than 6 months afrer the end
                              o f fiscal vear.
Overall         High                                                                      Substantial
project
specific Risk

      Project Financial Management & Disbursement Arrangement

      15. Based on the project design features and the risk analysis summarized above, the following
      arrangements are proposed for financial management and disbursements. These include measures
      to mitigate risks identified above.

      Institutional and Staffing Arrangements

      16. KPDT is the implementing agency and head of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and
      Secretariat. The ministry is responsible for project implementation and budget execution,
      including preparing the annual budget application to the MoF and setting up a project Satker
      (Satuan Kerja, project managers) that will be responsible for management of the annual budget
      (DIPA) and submission of withdrawal application. The budget application will be allocated in
      the following manner: (i) payment to the consultants and firms supporting KPDT, (ii) incremental
      operating costs of KPDT, (iii) Community Support grants to community groups, (iv.) payment for
      goods and equipment to support project implementation, and (v.) payment for trainings activities.
      BAPPENAS as the executing agency will be responsible for the grant's overall planning and
      evaluation.

      17. The Program Steering Committee (PSC) consists of BAPPENAS and KPDT, and is
      responsible for setting program policies and intergovernmental coordination.

      18. KPDT as head of the PMU and Secretariat will have a representative office in Jakarta and a
      field office in Nias. The PMU is responsible for project coordination and implementation -
      including procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, quality assurance,
      safeguards and implementation of the anti-corruption action plan. PMU will conduct field visit to
      monitor project implementation at least twice a year.




                                                       56
19. During the assessment, KPDT has assigned a Satker. KPDT has applied the new finance law
No. 17/2003, hence segregation of duty between payment verification function, procurement and
project management will be in place. KPDT will assign sufficient and qualified staff to the PMU
in Jakarta and Nias. Both KPDT and BAPPENAS will be responsible for counterpart financing
(government staff honoraria, taxes and other operational expenses), excluding the budget for
incremental operating costs to support the PMU.

20. Individual FM consultants will be hired to support the PMU during start-up stages and for
independent FM verification throughout the project. This individual FM consultant will be
located in Jakarta will support the PMU management in supporting overall coordination of
financial management for the project including, but not limited to, FM monitoring and oversight,
payment verification, collating and preparing Interim Financial Reports and withdrawal
application. This consultant should be hired not later than one month after effectiveness to ensure
that he/she will assist the project on preparing the sub-grant manual.

21. A consultant firm will be hired by the PMU under the project to support program
management (and technical operations) of the PMU and Secretariat in Nias. It will include a FM
consultant, who, besides providing FM support to the expenditure at provincial level, would
support communities in maintaining books of accounts, provide training and review and verify
the reports that the communities prepare on utilization of Community Support grants. This FM
consultant should be located in the field prior to disbursement of Community Support grant.

22. Community Support grants will be implemented by community groups (farmer groups and
women groups) who will responsible for management and accountability of the funds. A sub-
grant agreement (Surat Perjanjian) will be signed by each community groups and KPDT
representative (Satker) before the groups received the grants. Trainings will be provided to the
community groups and facilitators will be hired to assist them, in terms of technical and financial
accountability aspects. Methods of community groups? selection will be developed and included
in the Community Support grantlproject manual.

Accounting and Reporting

23. The accounting policies and procedures of this project will substantially follow government
financial management procedures, with strengthened procedures where appropriate. These
government procedures include, for instance, government budgeting procedures, accounting
standards (PP no. 24, 2005) and government accounting systems (PerMenKeu no.
59/PMK.o6/2005), which have all been issued following the enactment of the Finance and
Treasury Laws. All project activities and expenditures will be included in the respective KPA
(Budget Holder) budget and administrative and accountability procedures for approving
expenditures and disbursing funds to beneficiaries will follow government procedures.
24. To improve project financial information and reporting, grant expenditures and activities will
                                                                                              IR)
be separately reported to the Bank on a quarterly basis through Interim Financial Reports ( F s .
This would include information on procurement progress, physical progress of budgeted activities,
and financial source and use of funds. A reconciliation of the special account transactions with
the financial statements will also be prepared. Formats for these would be agreed at appraisal and
confirmed during negotiation. Quarterly project financial report should be received at the Bank no
later than 45 days after the end of each quarter. The quarterly reports will be collated annually for
annual financial audit purposes. The KPDT PMU will be responsible to ensure that IFRs will be
submitted to the Bank on timely basis. Details of these procedures will be included in the Project
Manual. FM consultant will be hired to assist the PMU in preparing the IFRs.


                                                57
25. All financial transaction should be recorded properly and supported with adequate evidence
that the recipient is as intended according to the Grant objectives, and the record should be
publicly available to ensure transparency.

26. The small-scale civil works and some goods procurement (for perishable items such as rubber
or cacao seedlingdgrafts) under this project are designed to be procured by consultant firm.
Larger portion of goods totaling approximately USD 2 million will be procured by Satker at
central level.

Internal Control

27. Payment verification at the PMU level will rely on the government system. Segregation of
duties between technical and financial aspects will be applied to ensure adequate internal control.
The Project Manual will document the financial management systems and procedures to be
followed to ensure that the project has sound financial management practices. The Project Manual
will include: Organization structure, job descriptions, budgeting, procurement, record
management for finance unit, asset management (if applicable), flow of funds, payment
verification, accounting (including use of government chart of account for the project), reporting
(IFR format, IFR preparation and time line), annual audit arrangements, supervision plans,
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for project implementation, and inspectorate review of
project implementation (internal audit).

28. For community level Community Support grants, the project will adopt similar and existing
financial management arrangement implemented by existing Bank and Go1 CDD projects. The
project will develop Community Support a grant manual that includes (but not limited to):
community group selection method, disbursement and flow of fund, financial records and
supporting documents filing and financial reporting. Community Support grant disbursement is
subject to approval of Community Support grant manual by the Bank. Community groups will be
trained prior to Community Support grant disbursement.

Disbursement Arrangement

29. The disbursement methods will be Advance, Direct Payment and Reimbursement. In order to
facilitate the disbursement, a Designated (Special) Account (DA) denominated in US dollars will
be opened by DG Treasury in the Central Bank (BI) or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank
under the name of the Ministry of Finance. DG Treasury will authorize its relevant Treasury
Office (KPPN) located in Jakarta to authorize payments of eligible project expenditures by
issuance of SP2D (remittance orders) charging the DA. For this purpose, DG Treasury shall issue
a circular letter to the relevant KPPN Offices providing guidelines and criteria for eligible project
expenditures in accordance with the Grant Agreement.




                                                 58
                                                   Figure 1. Flow of Funds



                                                                             T
    30. The ceiling of the advance provided                                     World Bank
    to the DA is US$1.6 million.
    Applications for reporting of the use of
    DA funds will be supported by: (i) list
    of payments together with records
    evidencing such expenditures, against
    contracts for goods, consultants that are
    subject to the Bank's prior-review; or
    (ii) statement of expenditures (SOEs)
    for all other expenses. In addition, a DA
    reconciliation statement is required for
    applications for reporting of use of the
    DA funds. Reporting of use of DA
    funds and application for an advance to
    DA may be submitted in a single
    application     on     monthly      basis.
    Withdrawal        application       under
    reimbursement or direct payment is                     I
                                                           I                  Communiw           Community        Community

    subject to a minimum amount of                         I
                                                           I
                                                           I
                                                                                iroup
                                                                             Bank account
                                                                                                   i w
                                                                                                Bank account
                                                                                                                      group
                                                                                                                  Bankaccount
    us$loo,ooo.                                            I

                                                                                                     I                    I
                                                                                                     I                    I

    31. The DA will be solely used to
                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                    I
                                                                                                     I

    finance eligible project expenditures.    (Phase 11)                 _____-_-_-______________________(


    Although management of the DA will
    be under the responsibility of DG                      Document flows
                                                 - - - - - - - - - - +




    Treasury MOF, KPDT will be -.-.-.-.-.-.- b Authorization
    responsible for reconciling the DA and               , Fundflow
    preparing applications for withdrawal
    of advances and reporting the use of the DA, duly approved by DG Treasury before their
    submissions to the Bank.
    32. All documentation for expenditures submitted for disbursement will be retained at the
    implementing unit and shall be made available to the auditors for the annual audit and to the Bank
    and its representatives if requested.


                                                                Amount of Grant                 % of expenditures to
               Category Description                             (US$ equivalent.)                        be financed
    (1) Community Support grants                                        340,000                             100%
    (2) Goods and non-consultants' Services;                          7,230,000                             100%
    Training and Consultants' Services
    (3) Incremental operating cost                                        630,000                              100%
I                                                      I                 8,200,000          I                                   I
    33. Community groups will be formed based on selection criteria determined. Groups will be
    formed and selected through village meeting facilitated by village development committee. This


                                                           59
also applies for selection of activities to be funded by Community Support grants. The activities
would be subject to a negative and positive list that will be included in the Community Support
Grant Manual. For selected Community Support grant proposals, a sub-grant agreement (Surat
Perjanjian) will be signed between the Satker (KPDT) and the community group. The document
will include activities plan. After signing the agreement, the community group will receive an
advance equals to 50% of the Community Support grant amount. The community group will
report the use of advance when requesting the rest of the Community Support grant amount.
Financial reports from these community groups will be verified by FM consultant in the field and
later by individual FM consultant in Jakarta before PMU can process the next tranche. The
Community Support grant manual will clearly define outputs and documents to be submitted for
verification purposes. Further detail of flow of fund mechanism will be described in the
Community Support grant manual.

Remedies

34. If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the special account, or if
expenditures are made from the Special Account without adequate supporting documentation to
validate these, the Recipient will be obligated to refund the same to the Bank. If special account
remains inactive for more than six months, the Bank may reduce the amount advanced.

35. The Bank will have the right to suspend disbursement of the funds if significant terms of the
Grant agreements, including reporting requirements, are not complied with. This will be reflected
in the Grant agreement.

Audit Arrangements

36. The project financial statements prepared by the project executing agency will be based on
the compiled project Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFR). The annual IFR will be subject
to a financial audit by an auditor acceptable to the Bank. The Terms of Reference (TOR) for the
project audit should be agreed by the Bank. A copy of the project audited financial statements,
along with the management letters issued by the auditors, if any, will be submitted to the Bank no
later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit will cover sample of Community
Support grant recipients. The audit will include separate opinion on the effectiveness of internal
control, compliance with the operational manual, including sub-grants operations manual, and the
grant agreement. Public exit conference will be conducted by the auditor to communities and
local government after completion of field audit. The auditor will work together with Bawasda
(local auditor) as far as possible to have more coverage areas. Bawasda will follow the same audit
TOR and submit the report to BPKP for consolidation. This model is starting being implemented
for PNPM project where BPKP agreed to provide training for trainers and audit procedures
modules.

Supervision Plan

37. Supervision of project financial management will be performed on a risk-based approach at
least twice a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system,
including but not limited to accounting, reporting and internal control. Supervision will also cover
sub- projects on random sample basis. As part of supervision, the Bank will also review all FM
assessment done by the project's FM consultant to prospective sub grantees and consultants. The
financial management supervision will be conducted by financial management specialist and
Bank consultants.


                                                60
                      Table 3. FM Action Plan and Conditionalities
                 Action                    Responsibility              Due Date
1. Sub-project operational manual that PMU                    Prior to disbursement of
   will include payment verification                          Community Support grant
   for subprojects. The manual should
   be agreed with the Bank.

2. Hiring FM consultant with the PMU PMU                      1. For Individual FM
   qualifications and skills acceptable                       consultants not later than
   to the Bank.                                               one month after
                                                              effectiveness.

                                                              2. For FM consultant(s)
                                                              hired under PMC prior to
                                                              disbursement of
                                                              Community Support
                                                              Grant.




                                         61
                                       Annex 8: Procurement
              Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

    General

    1. Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
    Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 and
    updated October 2006 and May 2010; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
    Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 and updated October 2006 and May
    2010, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general descriptions of various
    items under different expenditure category are described below. For each contract to be financed
    by the Loadcredit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need
    for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
    between the Borrower and the Bank project team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan
    will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
    and improvements in institutional capacity.

    2. Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project are fertilizers for the rice
    intensification component (US$1,000,000 equivalent in aggregate), fertilizer for the rubber and
    cocoa activities (US$90,000 equivalent), seeds for the rice intensification program (US$400,000
.   equivalent), rubber and cocoa seedlingshootstock and vegetable seeds (US$384,000 equivalent),
    farming equipment (tractor, thresher, US$400,000 in aggregate), gardeninghand tools
    (US$62,500), and office equipment (US$60,000 equivalent). Fertilizer and seeds will be procured
    in tranches each year with specific delivery dates and destinations. Each tranche is expected to be
    below US$200,000 and may be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) method
    using bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of agricultural equipment will be
    procured through ICB method using the Bank's standard bidding documents. Small-valued
    farming and office equipment for up to US$lO,OOO equivalent per contract may be procured
    through Shopping using procurement documents satisfactory to the Bank.

    3. Selection of Consultants. Consulting firm will be recruited for program management
    supports and implementation (US$ 4.20 million equivalent). Since this is the critical assignment
    for the Project, KPDT will carry out advance procurement for its selection so that contract could
    be awarded at effectiveness of the Grant. The assignment will include setting up nursery facilities,
    i.e. small structures, with waterlshade access, and fences in several areas totaling US$lOO,OOO.
    Procurement of items in the provisional sums will follow the consultant's own procedures and
    will be part of technical evaluation criteria. Selection of the consultant will be done through a
    Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method using Bank's standard request for proposal
    (RFP) documents. Although not foreseen at the time of preparation, Selection Based on
    Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) will be included for selection of consultant for services
    estimated to cost US$200,000 or less. Short lists of consultant firm for services estimated to cost
    less than US$400,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in
    accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. The project will
    use utilize individual consultants (about US$340,000 in aggregate) to support the KPDT for key
    tasks, not limited to, procurement support, financial management, finalization of the Project
    Management Manual (PMM), and project socialization and group formation. Individual
    consultants would be selected in accordance with provisions in Section V of the Bank's
    Consultant Guidelines.

    4. Farmer Managed Extension Activities. Grants (US$ .250 million in aggregate) will be
    provided to each Farmer Group to execute self-managed extension activities with sufficient


                                                    62
technical and administration support from the consultants. Each participating Farmer Group shall
be registered at its respective location and meets the minimum requirements defined in PMM in
order to be eligible to receive the grant (up to US$2,500 per group, depending on the activity).
Procurement under the grants will follow Community Participation in accordance with Paragraph
3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and shall be specifically described in the PMM. The activities
involve procurement of agricultural inputs through local shopping procedure. The PMM will use
best practice in CDD approach in similar type projects in Indonesia, such as the use of `peer
control', in order to enhance internal control procedure and meet the fiduciary requirement.

5. Capacity Building, Training, and Studies. These activities consist of training and study
tours to domestic agriculture institutions (rice, rubber, cocoa research centers, etc), and special
studies for ad-hoc livelihoods needs (limited to US$50,000 per activity). Trainings or studies
(US$330,000 in aggregate) will be procured using the implementing agency's administrative
procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.

6. Operational Costs. Activities under this category (about US$26 1,000 equivalent) which
would be financed by the project would be procured using the implementing agency's
administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. Additional
IOC cost include study tours, travel, and training (US$330,000)

Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement

7. Procurement activities will be carried out by State Ministry of Disadvantaged Area
Development ("Kementerian Pembangunan Daerah Tertinggal" or KPDT). KPDT is currently
managing "Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas Project in Aceh and Nias (SPADA)"
project, which is the first Bank financed project in the ministry (US$104 million in total).

8. An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement procurement
actions for the project has been carried out by EAPPR. The assessment reviewed the
organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's
staff responsible for procurement Officer and the Ministry's relevant central unit for
administration and finance.

9. Most of the issues/ risks concerning the procurement component for implementation of the
project have been identified and rated as `HIGH'. These issues as well as the corrective measures
which have been agreed are as follows:

 10. KPDT has weak capacity in carrying out Bank's procurement which may cause delay in
selection of implementation consultant, which is the critical contract for the Project. Such delays
have significantly affected SPADA lo Project. To mitigate this risk KPDT is receiving
procurement support from an international procurement consulting firm. The procurement
consultant is mainly assisting KPDT to carry out advance procurement for selecting program
management supports and implementation consultant firm. To ensure timely selection process,
the draft RFP for this contract should be ready at the time of negotiation.

11. To address the procurement capacity issue, KPDT will assign members of the procurement
committee who have hands-on experience in procurement. The Procurement Consultant has
delivered procurement training during the preparation phase of the Project to a pool of qualified

lo "Supports for the Poor and Disadvantaged Area" (SPADA, US$104 millions) is an ongoing Bank's
financed project executed by KPDT.


                                                 63
staff who will be engaged for this program. Replacement of committee's members, which
commonly occurs in the government, should consistently conform to specific qualification
requirement. To further strengthen the procurement committee, KPDT shall retain procurement
consulting services throughout the project period for the remaining goods and consulting
contracts by drawing on qualified individual procurement consultants on ad-hoc basis or extended
period. The TOR, budget and timing for these services shall be ready at the time of negotiation.
To address the technical issue, for procurement of agricultural input, the procurement committee
shall be assisted by experts who have specific knowledge on the substance of the technical
specification, including staffs from Ministry of Agriculture. Terms of reference of the technical
experts in form satisfactory to the Bank shall be ready at the time of negotiation.

12. Delays in budget preparation and contract payment have, in the past, caused considerable
delays in procurement. To mitigate these risks, the PMU shall have at least one senior member
who has hands-on experience with the GO1 budgeting and payment systems, and could play a role
for facilitating the closure of issues related to these matters, including, if necessary, obtaining
clarification from other relevant agencies such        KPPN offices at MOF, BAPPENAS, and
auditors.

13. Corruption and collusion cases continue to be a common issue in project implementation in
Indonesia. To mitigate this risk, KPDT should include the established measures to address
corruption issues in the PMh4, such as steps to report and investigate any cases of collusion,
fraudulent, corrupt and coercive practices, as well as remedial actions. This will include
automatic referrals to BPKP (government auditor) and KPK (the national Corruption Eradication
Commission) at the central level and to the community representatives at the district or sub-
district level. A strengthened complaint handling resolution should also be developed within
KPDT. KPDT should establish an enhanced disclosure and monitoring system in which all
information related to the consultant and goods contracts (including their amount and
corresponding detail progress payments, as well as sanctions) will be submitted to the Bank on a
quarterly basis. Further, the use of third-party procurement advisors is viewed as a positive step
by KPDT to increase transparency of the process.

Prior Review Thresholds

 14. Goods & Works: During the initial 18 months of the project, the Bank will carry out prior
review of first contract for goods/works by implementing agency regardless of value, and
thereafter contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more, irrespective of the
procedures. The above thresholds will be reviewed and revised as necessary during Bank's
supervision mission. Procurement by community will be subject to a yearly ex-post review on a
sample basis.

15. Consultants Services: Bank's prior review will be required for consultants' services contracts
estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more for firms. All single-source contracts will be
subject to prior agreement by the Bank. All TORS of the consultants are subject to the Bank's
review.


16. Residual Project's Risk. Since KPDT is receiving procurement support from an
international procurement consulting firm from the preparation stage of the Project for
procurement capacity building and for advance procurement of the critical consultant contract
(implementation and management consultant services), KPDT will retain supports from
procurement consultant throughout the project's implementation period, and most of the


                                                64
remaining contracts will be straightforward and mostly will be subject to prior review by the
Bank, it is anticipated that the residual project risk for procurement under the Project will be
reduced to `SUBSTANTIAL'.

Procurement Plan

17. KPDT, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan l 1 for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. Upon approval by the Bank, the Procurement
Plan document will be available with KPDT in the Project's database and in the Bank`s external
website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or
as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

Frequency of Procurement Supervision

 18. In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended that a procurement supervision
mission to visit the field is conducted six months after the implementation consultant is on-board,
and annually thereafter. A post review mission will be conducted on an annual basis to get a
minimum sample of 20%of total post review contract. Since most of the contracts will be subject
to prior review by the Bank,the number of post review contracts is expected to be minimal.


19. Details of the procurement arrangement involving international competition
1. Goods and Works and non consulting services.


                                              5            6            7        8              9
                                              Pre-         Domestic     Review   Expected       Comments
                                              qualifica    Preferenc    by       Bid-
                                              tion         e            Bank     Opening
                                              (yesho)      (yesho)               Date
                                              No           No           Prior    Year 1




2. Consulting Services.




                                   I 1 1 znkI                                          1
 1      2                               3         4           15         6                 7

        Description of                  Est.      Selection    Review    Expected          Comments
        Assignment                      Cost      Method                 Proposals
                                        US$ mil                          Submission
                                        lion                             Date
 1      Program Management              4.2       QCBS        Prior      Advance
        support &                                                        Procurement
        Implementation


 To be finalized prior to negotiation


                                                      65
(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and Single Source
    selection of consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for
    services estimated to cost less than US$400,000 equivalent per contract may be
    composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
    2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                            66
                                Annex 9: Financial Analysis
          Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

Financial Assessment

1. In a project of this nature, assumptions about the mix of activities that may be adopted by a
particular group or groups are inappropriate given the wide variety of social backgrounds, access
constraints, technical knowledge and training challenges among target groups. It is thus
impossible to develop a group level benefit stream and financial analysis. Instead typical benefit
streams for individual activities were developed to determine their investment costs, financial
rates of return, net present value, and the comparative returns in terms of returns per labor day.
These enterprise benefit streams are, however, only examples and the Consultant would identify
additional enterprises and the enterprise mix to suit local circumstances. A women's group may,
for example, spend a typical US$2,500 grant on a single breeding sow unit, a 200 broiler unit and
a retail activity or cocoa improvement. An upland rubber group may add livestock to the mix
depending on skills.

2. The resources available did not permit collection of data on environmental and social costs
and benefits and full border prices necessary for an economic analysis. However, assessment of
the likely overall benefits to participants on a financial basis shows that the project will lead to
improved livelihoods and that the grant investment will provide positive returns in the long term.

3. In the cocoa industry, existing yields are among the lowest in Indonesia while opportunities
to rapidly improve the crop and even to obtain benefits from new plantings within the project
period are readily available and simple to adopt. Farmers are already practicing some form of
crude pruning but existing practices risk spreading disease. The combination of fertilizer and
pruning of existing rootstocks plus top grafting of better material has been shown to increase
yields from 0.6 to 1.0 tons /ha under more difficult conditions in Sulawesi (PRIMA project under
PT Effem 200 1-08>. Moreover, training in post harvest handling has increased prices for quality
production by at least 10% as buyers recognize the need to mix good quality beans with average
quality pod borer affected beans in order to meet Indonesian export standards. Cocoa is a minor
crop in most households and a complete replacement strategy with no return until year 4 is
feasible given income from other sources and large returns available during years 4-15. In this
case, conservative benefits of 0.6 t/ha at a farm-gate price of US$2,300 (International price
US$2,700), give a gross margin of US$1,409 per ha after year 4, and moreover, the investment
will result in a sustainable cocoa industry because the yield improving measures also deter cocoa
pod borer, (a major pest threatening the future of cocoa in Indonesia). Cocoa is the most
attractive crop in terms of gross margidha and return per labor day. (Table below)

4. Benefits from rubber improvement are possible when rubber jungles are replaced over a 10
year period using benefits gained from quality improvement, market discovery and improved
product presentation to pay for annual replacement of about 10% of trees with a smallholder
plantation style structure. Returns to investment are immediately available with this strategy
compared to waiting until, year 7 under a full replacement regime. Benefit calculations assume a
conservative improvement of 5% from improvement in tapping practice and 15% in price at no
cost by improving latex presentation and value chain understanding. A modest gross margin of
US$175/ha is available for an investment of US$43/ha. Over a 15-year period, with gradual
replacement of the whole jungle with high yield trees and eventual yields of 1.5 t/ha the NPV of
rubber rehabilitation is US$3.56million or US$712/ha. A gradual replacement of rubber with
cocoa may nevertheless continue given higher returns from cocoa in suitable climatic zones of the
island.


                                                67
5. Incremental production of 1.5tha from the seed and fertilizer packages applied to only 500ha
(150 lead farmers) of rice in the first year would generate seed for a further 10,000 ha in the
following wet season. At project completion in year 4, assuming farmers maintain the packages
and obtain incremental yields of only 0.8 t/ha, benefit would amount to US$5.87 million over
10,000 ha or US$587/ha. Over a 15-year period, the NPV at a discount rate of 10% is US$6.47
million.

6. Returns to individual groups from breeding pig production are reasonably attractive, with an
NPV after 15 years of US$6,800 from an initial investment of US$2,700 and a FIRR of 50%. At
a discount rate of lo%, the combined net present value of activities at year 15 is approximately
US$11.08 million, demonstrating that the investment is robust at reasonable discount rates. Gross
margins of three activities, viz: rice (10,500 ha), rubber (5,000 ha) and cocoa (2,000 ha) provide
annual benefits of US$9.78 million or almost all of project cost after project completion in year 4.
The majority of returns come from the rapid improvement available from rice with better seed
and fertilizer. Rice improvement logistics are, however, one of the most challenging activities of
the project given the short timeframe and may need to be undertaken over two seasons (5,000
households per season) rather than one as modeled here.




Enterprise            Cocoa   Rubber Rice    Paddy Pigs 3 200          Mean
                      lOha    lOha   seed    rice     sows  Chicken
                                     lOha    lOha           broilers
Investment cost         2,843    425   4,483    2,703 2,730      1,339 2,420.5




Daily wage rate   I                                                                          4
FIRR%                     15   I     28   I   116 I     136 I      51   I       124 I    78.33




                                                68
                                                Sample Gross Margin Budgets
Rke krprowmSnt .asdf N
                     -                              Rlcekrprwsnart gaefslfu-


C0.t.                                   cost.                 coat.                            Cost.
                         20ha                                                      20 ha
d h wokd               5             n4thoUtWoiect 0
                                               . .            Mproiect             0         without proied    S
-+e; fe-e                        100                       00
                                                          I water f ;a                   100                         100
seed 60 kglha                    480 seed 60 kg           288 seed 60 kg                 480 seed 60 kg              288
fertiherNPK                     3750 fertilizer NPK         0 fetilber NPK               760 fettlkmr NPK              0
urea                            1200 urea                   0 urea                       660 urea                      0
harvest M o r 300 days           800 harvest labor       1200 harvest labor              800 harvest labw           I200
Deprsclation                     480 (15 days 0 1 4 )         DeprecWIon                 320 ( I O dayslha at5)
pesticide                        450 psstlclde            450 pesticide                  450 pestiade                450
arb t d a l                     7260 rubtctal            2038 sub Ida1                  3570 sublotai               2038


4.0tharrice                  18400 2.5tharlce           11500 3.3tharlce               1518025thtiw                 11500
tractor H e 60 days            600 grossmargin           9462 gross mar*               11610 gossmargh               9462
grossm wgin                  11740 labor days            1300 labor days                1100 Iabw days               1300
M o r days                    1000 rstunlebor day         7.28 rsturnkbw day            10.55 rstwnllabor day        7.28
returnlabbw day              1 1.74




ImeDtm0nt 0 O d                                               lnvatmnt coat

Hand tractor                    1200
Motorized Thresher'             1 800                         Thresher*                 1800    ,
Winnower'                         600                         Whnower'                   600
fertllzer NP K+ urea            4950                          fertilizer NPK+uec        1188
arb tatel                       6550                                                    3588




Cost.

Inputs                                                                                                          t
Sow replacement lyr (5 p a r breedhg life)                 300 Day d d chidis                                          22
Vaccbtionesow                                               20 Vaccination-Newcastle Disease                           40
Vecchetions piglets                                         63 FoM Chders treatment                                    20
Parasite control                                            25 D khfedlon , slpplemsnts                                10
arpplementery feed                                        1956feed-FCR 3.5av.Lwtl.Okgfeedprice$O.41kg                 560
Housing R 8 M                                                  i
                                                           100 t oushp R8M 2.W of capitel cost &de                   12.5
forage c W g Labor 50 days 0 5 4                           200 chick mwtallty ( 25%)                                   25
arbtotal                                                  2864 sub total                                            689.5

Income
18 bsconers 75kg                                          4050 300 brolers I.75 kg @$2kg                             1050
gossmergin                                                1386 gross mwgln                                          360.5
famSylabor days                                            204                                                          50
retunlabor day                                            6.79 raturnlabor day                                        7.21
liveweight e d av. of 30kg Iwt for 180 days
            n
at SO.31kg feed
cracked grah. Balance by sown legune
Fcfagemaintensnce bassdonlkgdylo
Labor 3 hrslday for 180 days

Investment costslgroup
Hwhg                                                       5 00                                                       500
sows                                                      1500
water suPPw                                                1 50                                                       150
forage estsblkhm ent 2he , 20 kg seed, 500                 580
sub total                                                 27 30                                                       650




                                                                  69
                           Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Framework
          Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

A. Introduction

1. The objective of Nias LEDP is to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery by improving the
ability of the Government to work with poor rural households in Nias to identify, develop and
sustain livelihood opportunities by:
0   Identifying and addressing community organization, knowledge, inputs, and marketing
    constraints to livelihoods in selected kecamatans in Nias.
0   Training and empowering small-holder farmers and government staff to support village
    group-led activities.
0    Implementing agriculture and other livelihood improvement activities.
0   Raising the capacity of district government for public expenditure planning, program
    management, and monitoring and evaluation.

B. Objectives of the Safeguard Framework

2. The social and environmental management framework provides general policies and
guidelines to serve the following objectives:
    Protect human health;
    Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual investments or their
    cumulative effects;
    Enhance positive environmental outcomes;
0   Protect community members from worse-off living condition due to the taking of land and/or
    reduced access to natural resources
0   Protect community members from degradation of cultural life and value;
    Avoid conflict among community members and strengthen community social cohesiveness.
    It is the responsibility of PMU team and consultants to support the Go1 (Bappenas and KPDT)
    in developing detailed social and environmental management procedures for this framework
    as part of the operations manual.

3. All livelihood activities that will be financed by the Nias LEDP project have to be in
compliance with GO1 environmental rules and regulations, as well as with environmental policies
of the World Bank. The project has to follow the Bank's Policy for Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)
and Indigenous Peoples (OPBP 4.10). The project requires environmental screening and
environmental assessment reports (if necessary) of sub-projects to help ensure that the sub-
projects are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus improve decision making. During
the environmental screening, the proposed sub-project will also have to be screened in terms of
the potential land acquisition needs and potential impacts to the Indigenous Peoples (IP). The
environmental and social assessment run in parallel with the process of designing a sub-project
and implementing it, and the type and its detail depend on nature, scale and any potential
environmental risks. It is the responsibility of the Government of Indonesia as the recipient of the
Grants to ensure that these policies are not violated.

C. Potential Positive and Adverse Environmental and Social Impacts from the Project

4. The project will not lead to land conversion, destruction of environmentally sensitive areas,
historically significant sites or other cultural resources. The project will benefit the people of Nias
including the IPS.


                                                  70
5. A number of potential environmental risks have been listed from a study conducted (ERM,
Aug 2008) to examine the possible impacts and mitigation measures from Nias-LEDP on the
environment and habitat that may occur as follows:
    Increased use of pesticides and fertilizers
   Currently, very little pesticide or fertilizer is used in Nias, especially `for rubber or cacao
   production. Use of fertilizers such as urea, SP-36, TSP and KCL are likely to increase,
    although there are alternatives, while biological control methods will be promoted for pest
    control. Increased use of pesticides and fertilizers will have risks for health and safety during
    storage and application, pollution of drinking water sources, and ecological impacts. An
    integrated pest management will be introduced.
   Potential environmental benefits of the livelihoods component
    There are potential positive environmental impacts if livelihoods programs include
    environmental programs, for example tree planting for watershed management.
    Indirect impacts due to improved livelihoods
    Increased incomes due to improving livelihoods in Nias will, as planned, result in increased
    consumption and investment on the island. As yet, however, there are few, ineffective means
    of preserving natural or cultural assets on the island (e.g., watersheds, ecologically important
    areas etc). Therefore, measures will be required to improve measures for the preservation of
    critical assets.

    Consequently, the consultant teams that will be engaged under the project will need to have a
good understanding of related environmental and social impacts and how such impacts can
mitigated via appropriate planning, design, and implementation measures.

7. Social Issues. The program activities may entail financing of activities which could involve
social issues associated with agriculture, and other economic development and job creation
projects. In general, the program activities that will be designed and implemented are likely to be
of small scale. As a result, the level of associated social risks is likely to be limited. However, it
is important for planning processes, including prioritization of economic development needs, to
reflect community needs and specifically those of vulnerable groups (such as women and the
poorest in the society).

D. Environmental Framework

8. The Nias LEDP will make use of the large body of technical and operational manuals
developed by Nias KRRP and PNPM RuralKDP. A range of environmental and engineering
specialists have reviewed these manuals, and they meet all WJ3 standards. One of the guidelines
is the Environmental Assessment Form from the Technical Operation Manual-PNPM Rural (or
Formulir Petunjuk Teknis Operasional PPK (Environmental Assessment Form)

    Environmental safeguards policies will be addressed in the following manner:
    Nias LEDP technical and field staff will receive environmental awareness instruction as part
    of their skills-training courses, and will make use of existing PNPM/KDP social and
    environmental checklists, manuals and mitigation techniques. The checklist provides a
    readily-available and easy-to-use form on which data can be recorded, and ensures that all
    items are covered during the village interviews.
    During discussions with target communities on their priorities, and the planning of LEDP
    assistance, LEDP extension officers will include environmental considerations amongst the
    technical constraints and considerations that they will discuss with communities, including


                                                 71
    the zoning restrictions. Extension officers will also promote livelihood projects with
    environmental benefits at this stage;
    On submission of an application for financing, as part of the approval process for sub-projects,
    adherence to the zoning restrictions and technical guidelines will be verified by the LEDP
    PMU;
    Environmental screening of villages will take place as part of the Needs Assessment. The
    environmental screening will make note of such aspects of the village as topography (steep,
    flat, susceptible to landslides, etc.), local water bodies, waste handling practices, sanitation,
    potable water supply, etc. The environmental screening will allow Nias LEDP senior
    personnel to quickly identify hazards or concerns, bring them to the attention of field
    personnel for further investigation, or highlight items for consideration during sub-project
    design.
    Periodic checks on project activities will be carried out by the LEDP PMU, to verify zoning
    compliance,

Zone                       Consists of                 Restricted Activities    Objectives

Livelihood                 All areas outside of        None. LEDP activities To focus livelihoods
Development Zone           the zones below             are actively promoted and economic
                                                                             development, and
                                                                             government services
                                                                             in population
                                                                             `clusters'

Flooding and              Secondary forests,           Conversion of mixed      To avoid rubber/cacao
Landslide Sensitive       slope greater than           forest to pure stands    cultivation leading to
Zones                     40% and slopes               of rubber or cacao       increased incidence of
                          greater than 15% with                                 flooding and
                          sensitive soils                                       landslides
                          (backshore, river
                          bank, lake and dam-
                          side and around
                          springs)

Ecological protection     Peat swamp areas,        All LEDP activities         Complete avoidance
zones                     areas of primary                                     of any impacts on
                          forest, length of coasts                             remaining areas of
                          with coral reefs.                                    natural habitats, areas
                          Gazzetted protected                                  of greatest species
                          areas.                                               diversity, and areas
                                                                               where threatened
                                                                               species remain.



10. The completion of the environmental form is an obligatory part of the planning process.
Each type of sub-project is checked for the various treatments that must be performed on it to
avoid or repair environmental problems. At any point during activities, the same form is brought
out to the field and reviewed, at a time when it is still feasible to easily repair deficiencies. At the
end of activities, the form is reviewed again.



                                                  72
Additional Screening Criteria (Negative List)

The following comprises a negative list of goods and expenditures and practices that cannot be
procured ore exercised under the project:

   (a) Goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international financing
   institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed to finance,
   or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan,
   credit, or grant

   (b) Goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard International Trade
   Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical
   Papers, Series My No. 34Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups
   under hture revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:




  (c) Goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;

  (d) Environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited
  under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

  (e) No expenditure on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
  Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VI1 of the Charter of the United Nations; and

  (f) No expenditure with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
  collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
  recipient of the Grant proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken
  timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they
  occur.

  (g) Pesticides. The project will not finance the procurement or application of pesticides.

  (h) Development in protected areas. No sub-project will be financed that would be located in
  a protected area or might change the purpose andor designation of a protected area. Protected
  areas are identified in The Decree or the Minister of the State for the Environment of the
  Republic of Indonesia Number KEP-ll/MENLI-I/2006, entitled Concerning the Types o           f



                                               73
   Businesses Activities Required Completing an Environmental Impact Assessment. The list
   includes notably: forest protection area; marine/fieshwater conservation areas; nature tourism
   park; areas surrounding lakes and reservoirs; coastal mangrove areas; national parks; coastal
   edges; forest parks; cultural reserves; areas surrounding springs; scientific research areas; and
   nature conservation areas.

Monitoring Efforts.

11. The third mitigation measure tool is developing and implementing monitoring efforts both on
environment and social issues. The results of this monitoring effort will be integrated into the
overall project M&E reporting. The project will also conduct a social and environmental review
and assessment after one year of field implementation.

E. Cultural Property

 12. The highly participatory nature of the project will ensure that the farmers/women groups can
identify any proposed activities that may have an impact on cultural property. Given the nature of
the project, it is very unlikely that the project will support activities affecting cultural property.
However, the village-based consultants (Extension Technical Experts/Coordinators) will screen
any sub-project proposal and verify that no cultural property will be affected in the farming areas
or in the women groups' working areas. In cases where a sub-project affects cultural property, the
project will not finance it.

F. Land Acquisition and Resettlement

13. Land requirement for any sub-project with significantly large land requirement causing
displacement and/or significant social adverse impacts on large number of households will not be
acceptable. In the case a sub-project needs land acquisition or other assets attached to it, any
affected people have the right to receive compensation and be informed about their right. The
farmers/women groups will decide the method for acquiring land for program activities, which
will follow these principles:

14. Project activities will avoid land acquisition, and if land acquisition is unavoidable, it will be
minimized through design;
    Land acquisition should be carried out in full consultation with or among the project affected
    persons/land owners, participatory and transparent to all involved;
0   Project affected persons have been clearly informed of their right on compensation at the
    public meeting regardless of land acquisition schemes that they choose;
    Project affected persons (PAP) will not be socially and economically worse-off due to the
    taking of the land by activity;
    Selection of scheme and level of compensation (if any) will have to be agreed by the project
    affected persons and by the farmers/women groups who need the land;
    Process and agreement on the scheme of land acquisition must be documented, and be made
    available to public at any point of time.

15. An activity that needs to acquire land will have to include a Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP) in its sub-project proposal. As the project is unlikely to
involve large scale land acquisition and will involve full participation of the community groups
during sub-project preparation and implementation, a simple format of LARAP would be



                                                 74
appropriate. Requirements and format of the LARAP will be provided in the Operation Manuals.
Experiences from similar projects like PNPM Rural and Urban, required land for the sub-projects
would be obtained through any one of the following options:

16. Direct Purchase. Where possible the required land will be acquired through direct purchase
based on `willing buyer willing seller' principle, as the first option. Negotiations for direct
purchase would be carried-out in a public place and in transparent manner. All proceedings will
be documented and final agreement would be signed by the negotiating parties in the presence of
NGOs or civil society and countersigned by the village head. The negotiated amount will be paid
the latest within three months from the date of final agreement of the negotiated settlement by the
negotiating parties. Timing of the payment will be agreed during the negotiation.

17. Voluntarv Donation. Voluntary contribution of land and/or other assets is quite common in
Indonesian villages, assuming that an individual loses insignificant amounts of land. Land
donation is acceptable only if: (i.) the land donator receives direct benefit from the project and
they are not poor people, or becoming worse-off after the land taking; (ii.) project affected
peoples have been informed clearly of their right on compensation (as stated in the guidelines) at
a public meeting, but nevertheless they are still willing to donate without any pressure.

18. Land owners should be informed that they are entitled to getting compensation prior to the
decision of contributing the land voluntarily. Voluntary donation of land for a sub-project would
be an acceptable option where:

    The land is identified by the beneficiary communities and confirmed by technical staff to be
    suitable for the sub-project and free from any environmental or health risks;
    the impacts on the land owners are marginal and do not result in displacement of households
    or cause loss of household's incomes and livelihood;
    the households making voluntary donations are direct beneficiary of the sub-project;
    land thus donated is free from any dispute on ownership or any other encumbrances;
    consultations with the affected households is conducted in a free and transparent manner;
    land transactions are supported by transfer of titles; and
0   documentation of consultation meetings, grievances and actions taken to address such
    grievances are properly documented.

19. In the case that the local government is planning to acquire private land or community land
for the purpose that is related to the project (e.g. for nursery, drying field, etc), it can be done
through willing buyer willing seller approach if it involves land less than 1 Ha, or, if more than 1
Ha the Bank's Policy OPBP 4.12on Involuntary Resettlement will apply.

20. A protocol for direct purchase and voluntary donation of land for sub-projects would be
included in the Operations Manual. Sub-projects sponsors will be required to submit appropriate
documents together with the sub-projects proposals to show the process to be used for obtaining
the required land. Any sub-project without any of the above two options for land acquisition will
not be accepted.

G. Indigenous Peoples' or Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples' (IV)Planning Framework.

2 1. The main issues related to indigenous peoples (IPS) or isolated and vulnerable groups in Nias
are:



                                                75
    The local elite, though they come from the same ethnic group, often dominate and exploit the
    vulnerable and marginal groups.
    Land conflicts relate to customary land. The common conflict can be divided into three
    categories:
    Conflict over boundaries between sub-clans;
    Sub-clan family land that is located outside the village has been taken over by the
    government (Le. for public areas) or by other villages where the land is located (claim owned
    by other sub-clan land)
    Cases where sub-clan land was used by outsiders under customary agreement but was then
    claimed as government land or which become disputed land (mostly in the south of Nias)
    Women have very weak positions in the society; have a very limited role in public decision
    making and have no right to land ownership. Special processes have to be built to make sure
    that women would get equal benefit from the project. The project includes creation of
    livelihood groups exclusive for women only.

The principles

    Vulnerable groups, including indigenous peoples, women and low level sub-clan families
    should get equal benefit from the project
    Family from low level sub-clans should not be worse off because of this project
0   IPS and vulnerable groups should be fully consulted in all decision making process, from the
    planning stage, implementation and maintenance stage.

The process for impact mitigation

22. Community decision making should include the processes summarized below:
    Consultants ensure that planning fully and appropriately engage vulnerable groups, including
    the IPS,women and low level sub-clan;
    Consultants should consult vulnerable individuals and groups in the appropriate forum or
    meeting place. Results of these discussions should be reported through the monthly report
    and included in the project monitoring reports;
    Special meetings with women and marginalized groups on their view of the proposed sub-
    project have to be carried out. The minutes should be reported to the environmental and
    social management officer in the PMU;
    Any mitigation agreed by the IPS and vulnerable groups should be incorporated in the sub-
    project design and its implementation is well monitored by the PMU and village-based
    consultants.

Strengthened facilitation

    There should be an environmental and social management officer experienced in assisting
    IPS, women and other vulnerable groups in village level in the PMU in Nias to analyze the
    report of the field consultants and provide field guidance and training.
0   There should be a special session and syllabus in the consultants' training curricula on how to
    facilitate vulnerable groups;
    There should be a special chapter and process in the consultants' manual;
    There should be a standard feedback mechanism




                                                76
IP or I W Plan and Documentation

23. An IP Plan or IVP Plan for a sub-project will cover activities of (i) identifying the
beneficiaries or the affected IP or IVP and their social economic characteristics, (ii) carrying out
consultations, (iii) identifying measures to avoid, minimize and address potential negative
impacts, (iv) incorporating measures and agreements with the IP or IVP in the sub-project design
and implementation, (v) estimating cost estimates and financing plan for implementing the IP
Plan or IVP Plan, (vi) specifying the grievance procedures, and (vii) putting the appropriate
mechanisms and benchmarks for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the IP Plan or
IVP Plan. The IP Plan or IVP Plan will be part of the sub-project proposal. The implementation
of the plan will be incorporated in the project progress report. The IP Plan or IVP Plan's
requirements and format will be included in the Operation Manuals.

H. Institutional Arrangements

LEDP Implementation Arrangements

24. The implementation of the environmental and social management frameworks (ESMF) will
mainly the responsibility of the Nias-based Project Management Unit (PMU) together with the
local Steering Committee comprising of Bappeda of North Sumatera and Bappedas of Nias and
Nias Selatan. In the daily operation, the PMU will be assisted by a consultant team contracted
under the Technical Assistance component of the project. An environmental and social safeguard
specialist will be part of the consultant team members.

Responsibilities for Environmental and Social Management

25. The following responsibilities are proposed within the LEDP implementation arrangements:
    At the national level, a member within the steering committee will be assigned to oversee
    environmental and social issues; He or she will be assisted by the environmentalhocial expert
    of the Central Management Consultant;
    In the PMU, the appointment of an officer (supported by consultant resources) to provide
    technical backstopping on all aspects of environmental and social issues, including for
    mitigation of impacts and monitoring. The title for this officer is proposed as `environmental
    and social management officer', and they can be provided through the Technical Assistance
    contract;
    The Environmental and Social Management Officer will prepare and update the detailed
    environmental and social management plan and their implementatiodprogress, and the
    extension consultants will be assigned to oversee the livelihoods component to integrate
    zoning and environmentally-beneficialprojects into their approach;
    Livelihoods extension consultants will have to integrate zoning and environmentally-
    beneficial activities into their approach.

26. A number of BAPPEDA staff (3 from Nias district and 4 from Nias Selatan) has received
intensive training on environmental management in Medan. Nias Selatan District has recently
established an environmental management division, but at present they have very little capacity to
undertake any work, owing to a lack of experience and equipment, despite their enthusiasm.

27. Nias District has not established any environmental management department. It will be the
responsibility of the PMU Environmental and Social Management Officer to develop the
Environmental and Social Management Plan in further detail, as part of the development of the


                                                77
Operations Manual, as their initial task on appointment. All activities concerning environmental
and social management will be carried out in close co-operation with relevant departments of
local government, including the Environmental Dinas, BAPPEDA and Dinas that handles IP and
vulnerable groups

Capacity Building and Training Requirements

28. In order to ensure full implementation of the ESMF measures, LEDP will provide a program
of environmental and social safeguards training and institutional capacity building. Training on
the provision of ESMF and potential impacts of proposed livelihood activities will be required for
the PMU. Detailed training on the ESMF will be required for Extension Consultant Teams. A key
responsibility of the Environmental and Social Management Officer will be to deliver a range of
technical training on environmental and social safeguards issues to PMU and the extension
consultant teams.

29. For each group, training will be provided to bring them to a different level of expertise in
different areas:
    In -depth training to a level that allows trainees to go on to train others, including technical
    procedures where relevant;
    Awareness building, in which the trainees become familiar with the issues to a sufficient
    extent that it allows them to demand their precise requirements for further technical
    assistance; and
    Awareness-raising in which the participants acknowledge the significance or relevance of the
    issues, but are not required to have technical or in-depth knowledge of the issues.

Potential Linkage with the Nias Island Rural Access and Capacity Building Program (Nias-
RACBP)

30. The L O is implementing a separate stand-alone project (funded by the MDF) to improve
rural access in the key economic clusters in Nias, where Nias-LEDP will be implemented. ILO's
Rural Access and Capacity Building Program (Nias-RACBP) sub-projects have strong potential
to increase the impacts of Nias-LEDP livelihood activities.

3 1. The Fiscal Agency Agreement (FAA) with the MDF allows the L O to access MDF funds
and implement according to its own operations policies. The ILO has its own environmental and
social safeguards policy framework that is assessed to be in-line with those of the Bank and GoI.

32. Given the likelihood that some Nias LEDP and RACB activities may work with the same
communities or beneficiary groups, the Nias-based PMUs of both programs should coordinate
their activities in the planning and implementation stage (when feasible) to increase efficiency
and impacts. In cases where there is an overlap or complementary activities, it is imperative that
the safeguards framework is applied consistent with the LEDP safeguards framework. This may
require the LEDP PMU to conduct review of the application of the LO'S safeguards policies for
its sub-projects (at the planning stage, or carrying out due diligence during sub-project
implementation, or post-review).

                                       L
33. The project envisions that if the I O satisfactorily and consistently implements its approved
environmental and social safeguards policy framework, there will be no discrepancy with the
safeguards principals of Nias-LEDP. In the event that there are gaps for a particular RACB sub-



                                                78
project (overlapping with Nias-LEDP activities) the Nias-based PMU will request the ILO to
carry out remedial actions to mitigate the social and environmental impacts.

Consultation and Disclosure

34. The project will document the process of acquiring land including consultation process and
agreement reached between the PAPS or land owners and the farmers/women groups. The
document will include names of the PAPS, size and location of the acquired land (including map),
size of remaining land, use of land, scheme of land acquisition (voluntary donation, utilization
permit, cash compensation, swaps, etc. as agreed by both parties), signatures of the project
affected persondland owners, witnesses and the village chief. If it is a donated land, it should be
clear in the document that it is given for the sub-project use without time limitation. If it is
utilization permit, the time-frame should be clear in the document. Details of the format of
documentation at the community level and at the project level will be presented in the project
manual. The PMU will be supported by qualified consultants to facilitate the process.

35. The above-said document will be included in the sub-project proposal of the farmers/women
groups. The village-based consultants (including Extension Technical Experts/Coordinators,
M&E and QA monitors) will verify the document in the field as part of the sub-project screening
and approval process. The Nias-based PMU will consolidate information from these documents
and include it in the monthly project reports. Activities will be approved if the process of land
acquisition conforms with the approved environmental and social safeguard framework and the
project manual. Land acquisition must be completed prior to the implementation or program
activities.

36. World Bank policies require disclosure of sub-projects information, as part of the
environmental (including social) assessment process. LEDP will hlfill these and Indonesian
requirements for disclosure through the following:
0   Provision of the quarterly environmental report, in Indonesian to the steering committee, and
    the placing of this report for public access in a suitable location in Gunung Sitoli and Teluk
    Dalam;
0   The project will ensure that the framework is published in Info shop and the Indonesia Public
    Information Center, as well as in the KPDT website;
0   The project manuals will be published and be made available to the community organizations
    (kecamatan and village level) preparing proposals, as well as in the KPDT website

37. In addition, all sub-projects will be based on participatory planning and appraisal of proposed
projects, thereby providing for a significant, local amount of disclosure. All reports will be
uploaded in the KPDT website.

J. Reporting

0   Extension consultant teams will work closely with communities to provide guidance and
    advice on environmental and social risks of sub-projects, potential environmental sub-
    projects, and appropriate mitigation measures;
0   In turn, the extension consultant teams will receive advice and support from the LEDP
    Environmental Management and Social Officer including technical advice and guidelines, as
    well as day-to-day guidance;
    The Environmental and Social Management Officer will provide a quarterly report on the key
    performance indicators, to the head of the PMU, who will convey it to the LEDP steering


                                                79
    committee, including local government and local environmental agency and relevant local
    agencies handling social issues;
0   A review of performance in relation to environment and social safeguards issues will be
    carried out ones per year by World Bank staff. Supervision on these aspects will be done at
    least twice a year.




                                             80
                                Annex 11: Project Processing
          Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program



Activity                                      Planned                 Actual
PCN Review                                    1211212007              12/12/2007
Initial PID to PIC                                                    05117/20 10
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                   04/22/2010
Appraisal                                                             11/09/2009
Negotiations                                  06/03/2010              06118/20 10
RVP approval
Planned date of effectiveness                 08/30/2010
Planned date of mid-term review               09/30/201 1
Planned closing date                          06/30/2012

Key Institutions responsible for the preparation of the project:
Bappenas and KPDT, Go1

Bank Staff and consultants who worked on the project Include:
Name                            Title                                     Unit
Khairy Al-Jamal                 Sr Infrastructure Specialist              EASIS
Andre Bald                      Sr Infrastructure Specialist              EASVS
Shobha Shetty                   Sr. Rural Economist                       EASRD
Lilik Hidayat                   Operations Specialist                     Consultant
Melinda Good                    Sr. Counsel                               LEGES
Richard Chisholm                Sr. Agriculture Economist                 EASRD
Indira Dharmapatni              Sr. Operations Officer                    EASIS
Andrew Sembel                   Environmental Specialist                  EASIS
Yogana Prasta                   Operations Advisor                        EACIF
Rajat Narula                    Sr. Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM
Unggul Suprayitno               Sr. Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM
Christina I. Donna              Financial Management Analyst              EAPFM
Bisma Husen                     Sr. Procurement Specialist                EAPPR
Amien Sunaryadi                 Sr. Operations Officer                    EACIF
Dayu N. Amunvanti               operations Analyst                        EACIF
Rebekka Hutabarat               Team Assistant                            EACIF
Isabel Junior                   Program Assistant                         EASIN
Ira Marina                      Team Assistant                            EACIF




                                                 81
                         Annex 12: Documents in the Project File
         Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

1. Analysis of the Rubber and Cacao Industry: Nias and Nias Selatan. Report Prepared for the
World Bank by Tan Bock Thiam. July 2008.

2. Review of Ecological and Habitat Aspects of Project Proposals: Nias Livelihoods and
Economic Development Program. Prepared by ERM, June 2008.

3. Disaster Risk Management Strategy: Nias Livelihoods and Economic Development Program.
Prepared by ERM. April 2009.

4. LivelihoodAgriculture Assessment of Nias Selatan: Nias Reconstruction Program. Prepared
by Consultants for the Australian Government (AUSAID). October 2006.

5. Briefing Paper on Market Access Considerationsfor Nias Cacao Farmers. Prepared by
Oxfam. September 2007.

6. Health Assessment Report: Nias Island. Prepared by the International federation of Red Cross
and Red Crescent Societies.

7. Minutes of Meeting. Presentation of Implementation Arrangements and Technical Approach
for Nias LEDP. August 26,2008; Medan

8. Aide Memoire, World Bank Project Identification Mission, February 3-18,2008.

9. Analysis of Pavement Options with Life-cycle Cost for Nias RACB.           Prepared by the
International Labor Organization.

10. Aceh Cacao: Value Chain Analysis. International Finance Corporation: Private Enterprise
Partnership for Aceh and Nias. August 2006.




                                             82
               Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program




                           a.mm              OM     0.00   am      0.00    1M5.W       0.00     0.00

                            6oL1.00          0.00   0.00   Om              416%)    -1113.61    0.00
                            100.00           O"00   0.#    0.00    0.00    1oD.M)      0-00     0.00

                             50.00           0.00   0.00   0-00     0
                                                                   a0       mo
                                                                             o         0.00     0.00

                            110.00           040    0.00   0.00    0.00    imJ3        0-00     0.00
                            1m.a           iasm     0.00   0.00    Q.#     165B     -l21.68     0.00

                             24.50          61.50   0.00   0.m     0.W      74.33     23.23     0.00
                            341.19         1M.#     0.00   om      0.00    37331      50.04     0.00

                           41444             Q.00   0.00   a.oa   17498    2w3       95.17     21.91

                            33.m            60.00   O#
                                                     .     am      0.00     71.04     19.63     0.00

                              0.00          67.w)    .
                                                    O#     0.00     .
                                                                   ##       Ea17       633      0.00

                             0.00,         a37.40   0.00   0-00    0.w      92d9       531      0.00
                              .0
                             m0              0.#    0.#    0.00    O.#      3&29     114.13     0.00

                            4s.00            0.00   0.MI   0.00    0.00     3197     21.17      0.00
                            14.50           15.00   0.00   am      0.00     1558     1437       0.00

                           1311.00          35-00   0.00   am      0-00     34.19    24-99      0.00

                            67.30           71.40   a.m    am      0.00     is53    -37
                                                                                     3.6        0.00
                            55.00            5.00   0.M1   0.00    0.00     5195     M1
                                                                                      .5       4a.m

                            80.00          ao3.00   0.00   a-00    a#        1.41   -la693      t30

                            50.00           3.0
                                             00     0.00   0.00    0.00     53.71    H2.2       0.00
                            .O
                           mO                0-00   0.00   0.00    1 .00    89-14    90.14      0.d0

                            33.20           a.
                                             3#     0. 0
                                                      a    0-00    0.17     4
                                                                            a6       146.
                                                                                      1.3       0.M

                            3x0             32.80   O.#    0.00    0.36     3732     l325       0.00

                            4s.50           45-50   0.#    om      01w)     136       097       0.00
                           141.00            0.00   0.#    0.00    0.00    43.63     43-62     43.62

                            45.00           25.00   0.00   am      0.#      4:
                                                                           35        32.10      199




                                      83
Pw7
 o 7   rn   ID-WSSLICII                0.00           77.#          0.m           0.w          395          344          439           0 .#a
                          T d        4.92099      1.410.60          O.#           OR0      18046       430893       - 2234            107.B




                                   INDONESIA
                             STATEMENT OF IFC's
                            Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                          US$ million




                                               000           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          .0
                                                                                                                  00           0.00
2 w                         .0
                           10                  000            .0
                                                             00            0.00         1.00         0.00          .0
                                                                                                                  00           0.00
2006                       50
                            .0                  .0
                                               00            00
                                                              .0            .0
                                                                           00           00
                                                                                         .0          0.00         0.00         0.00
2006                       45.00               000            .0
                                                             00            00
                                                                            .0          0.00         0.00         00
                                                                                                                   .0          0.00
2004                       17
                            .5                 000           00
                                                              .0           00
                                                                            .0          0.00         0.00          .0
                                                                                                                  00           0.00
2002                       1 1 .05             000            .0
                                                             00            34
                                                                            .9          4.90         0.00         0.00         34
                                                                                                                                .9
1989                       0.00                220           0.00          0.00         OM)          2.20         00
                                                                                                                   .0          0.00
1997                        .3
                           27                  000           00
                                                              .0           00
                                                                            .0          2.73         0.00          .0
                                                                                                                  00           00
                                                                                                                                .0
1989                       00
                            .0                 02 0           .0
                                                             00            0.00         0.00         0.20         0.00         0.00
1994                       0.00                0 19          00
                                                              .0           0.00         0.00         01
                                                                                                      .9          0.00         0.00
2003                       000                 0 12          0.00          0.00      000             0.12         0.00         0.00
                           0.00                0 70           .0
                                                             00            0.00      0.00            0.70         0.00         0.00
2005                       24.00               000           0.00          0.00     24.00            0.00         0.00         0.00
2000                       000                 2 85           .6
                                                             28            0.00      0.00            2.85         2.83         0.00
2002                       00
                            .0                 204            .0
                                                             00            0.00       .0
                                                                                     00              2.04          .0
                                                                                                                  00           0.00
2004                       35.00               000            .0
                                                             00            0.00     35.00            0.00         0.00         0.00
1997                       000                 3 35          0.00          0.00      000             0.00          .0
                                                                                                                  00           0.00
1993                       0.05                000           00
                                                              .0           00
                                                                            .0       00
                                                                                      .5             0.00          .0
                                                                                                                  00           0.00
1996                        .0
                           00                  0 00           .8
                                                             25            48
                                                                            .1       0.00            0.00         2f8           .1
                                                                                                                               48
2004                       30.00               000           0.00          0.00     30 00            0.00         0.00         0.00
2005                       25.00               000           00
                                                              .0           0.00     20 00            0.00         0.00         0.00
                           0.00               000            3.75          0.00      000             00
                                                                                                      .0          37
                                                                                                                   .5          0.00
1991                        .0
                           00                 3 82           0.00          0.00      0.00            3.82          .0
                                                                                                                  00           0.00
199s                       0.00               157             .0
                                                             00            0.00       .0
                                                                                     00              1.57          .0
                                                                                                                  00           0.00
1999                       0.00               0 81           00
                                                              .0           00
                                                                            .0        .0
                                                                                     00              081           .0
                                                                                                                  00        0.00
2001                       20.00              000            0.00          0.00      033             0.00         0.00      0.00
2004                       48.00              000            00
                                                              .0           0.00     41.00            00
                                                                                                      .0           .0
                                                                                                                  00        0.00
1992                       0.23               000             .0
                                                             00            2.00      0.23            0.00         0.00      2.00
1996                       1.65               000             .0
                                                             00           5.9
                                                                           34        I .65           0.00          .0
                                                                                                                  00       53.49
1995                       4.50               000            00
                                                              .0          49.50      450             0.00         00
                                                                                                                   .0      49.50
1997                       9.38               000            0.00         0.00       9.38            0.00         0.00      0.00
                           16.45              000            00
                                                              .0          35
                                                                           .6        64
                                                                                    1.5              0.00         0.00      35
                                                                                                                             .6
2006                       20.00              000             .0
                                                             00           0.00        .0
                                                                                     00              0.00         0.00      0.00
                           0.00               234            00
                                                              .0          0.00       000             2.34         0.00         0.00




                                               84
2000                             0.00             121           000    000      0.00     0.71          0.00     0.00
2006                             0.00            0.66           000    000      0.00     0.66          0.00     0.00
1998                             0.00            2.50           000    000      0.00     250           000      0.00
1993                             0.00            0.00       1016       790      0.00     0.00          10.16    7.90
2004                             15.36           0.00        000       310      15 36    0.00           0.00    3.20
1997                             0.83            0.00           000    000      0.83     0.00          0.00     0.00
2001                             0.00            1 03           000    000      000      1.03          0.00     0.00
2006                             7.00            0.00           000    000      0.00     0.00          0.00     0.00
1995                             7.81            0.00           000    000      7.81      0.00         0.00     0.00
2004                             8.31            0.00           000    000      831       0.00          .0
                                                                                                       00       0.00
1997                             0.n             0.00           000    000      0.72     0.00          0.00     0.00
2001                             11.62            0.00          000     735     11.62    0.00          0.00     735
2005                             0.00            15 82          ow     000       0.00    15.74         0.00     0.00
2006                             10.00            0.00          000    000       0.00     0.00         0.00     0.00
2001                             33.33            0.00          000    000      33.33     0.00         0.00     0.00
              Toblpmtfako:       560.77          41.41      19.35     135.30   269.20    37.48         1932    135.30




       2WS       BinkhWPSELF
                                                                ~




                                                         0 03           000        000           000
       2006      BdNISPSwtp                              000            000        000           000
       2006      (kglndmeau                              008            000        OM)           000
                     T       o     t     L   L      ~       c
                                                         ~ 011 ~      ~ 000        000           000




                                                  85
                                 Annex 14: Country at a Glance
            Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

P O V E P I Y mdSOCIA1




                                    -28    46
                                     5 4 2 A
                                    02    rU2
                                    370   J*o




                                                                                    I
                                                                               -'
                          198797 )OW-07   1906

                               78    31    66                      ~   "wnelr,
                               61    25    4.3                   -----LOWS--




                l
f l PUCT U P f o the ECONOMY


                                                 2004    ZOO?

                                                  9
                                                  e        e8
                                                  171)    467
                                                  289     na
                                                  4a1     39A
                                                  606     .628
                                                   86      a3
                                                   S.
                                                  Zt      263

                                                 2006    Zoo?

                                                   54      36
                                                   66      h7
                                                   iLd     47
                                                   74      89
                                                   6 . 7 8 6
                                                   9b      39
                                                    u      21)
                                                   86      89




                                                         86
                                 __
P P ICE 5 md W V E R NY6 MI FINANCE
                                      (087   1097    loa6    2007       Ilnfldion (%)                         i
                                        BB     6.1     d
                                                       '1
                                                        .         66
                                       64     a6       Ub         s
                                                                  1


                                        5
                                       13     92       El         a5
                                       do
                                       4.8
                                              62
                                              -12
                                                       66
                                                       RQ
                                                                  59
                                                                  -12   I               m.wcIJMQ-9-a          I




                                                                        I
                                                                                                              'I
                                                     2Da6    too7           ompoiition of ZOO4 W (US) mill.
                                                     mw
                                                     7625                                A: 7423
                                                      W8
                                                     2adyL
                                       075            W       um
                                         Q              37        38

                                              2D
                                              i
                                              s
                                              3m
                                               .
                                             4677
                                              4w
                                             - .

                                              8D
                                              899
                                              tm
                                             -266
                                              703
                                             rn




                                                             87
                  Annex 15: Governance and Accountability Framework
         Indonesia: Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

Introduction

60. The objective of Nias-LEDP Governance and Accountability Framework is to identify
corruption risks and mitigation measures beyond the standard control systems employed by the
Bank. While more detailed program specific control systems are outlined in Annex 7:
Procurement Arrangements and Annex 8: Financial Management & Disbursement Arrangements,
this Action Plan (i) maps potential risks of corruption; and (ii) presents program activities to
address these risks in the form of an Action Plan.

61. Corruption Risk Mapping. The corruption risk-mapping matrix used as the basis to develop
this Action Plan identifies potential risks of corruption and specifies appropriate mitigation
measures agreed to by the Executing Agency of the Government of Indonesia. The corruption
risk-mapping matrix will be included in the Project Operation Manual (POM).

62. Action Plan. Specific mitigation actions are presented in the Corruption Risk Mapping
Matrix. The following provides a summary of the action plan:

       1.       Enhanced Disclosure Provisions and Transparency. The Project PMU assisted
       by the consultant will prepare a PMU website regarding this project. The website will
       disseminate general information of Nias-LEDP. Progress of the project in the form of
       figures, narative, pictures, reports, and maps etc. also will be presented on the website.
       Appropriate access control to the website will be established to assure that all project
       officers, consultants and facilitators have proper access to the information they need for
       their jobs and to assure that the project properly transparent to the public. Posters and
       brochures on certain project information will be disseminated to relevant stakeholders,
       summary project information will be published through mass media and several press
       releases will be delivered by the PMU quarterly.

       ii.      Civil Society Participation in Oversight. The Nias-LEDP's Enhanced
       Disclosure Provisions and Transparency component will serve as a catalyst to bring the
       Nias-LEDP closer to their internal and external stakeholders, communities and interest
       groups for mutual understanding, day-to-day communication and cooperation.
       Communication to Nias DPRD and invitation to stakeholders including universities and
       NGOs to oversee the project, at least virtually through the project website will increase
       participation. By providing complete project information on the website, the project will
       be able to invite broader civil society to oversee the projec. At the Nias and village levels,
       the use of facilitators, posters and brochures will encourage village people to participate
       to the project as well as encourage them to report or to complaint when the find
       irregularities.

       iii.     Complaints Handling Mechanism. As part of the control system, complaints
       handling mechanism will be established integrated with transparency mechanism at the
       PMU. Complaint handling procedures will be strictly followed by also assigning
       authorized officials under the PMU control, assisted by consultant, to be responsible for
       maintaining the database and the follow up actions. These complaints will be acted upon
       in a professional and timely fashion, and without risk of reprisal to 'whistleblowers' in the
       public. The complaints handling procedures also will be connected to the Inspectorate
       General of the KPDT. The complaints and its follow up actions will be presented on the


                                                88
        project website. The project will develop appropriate measures in the Nias context to
        ensure transparent and easily access by local communities for lodging complaints.

        iv.     Sanctions & Remedies. Clear sanctions and remedies are an important final step
        in the effort to fight against corruption. This Project has a low tolerance for corruption.
        Any person (government, non-government, consultant, facilitator, contractor etc.) can be
        sanctioned if sufficient evidence is available. In all procurement and consultant contracts,
        evidence of corruption, collusion or nepotism will result in termination of the relevant
        contract, possibly with additional penalties imposed (such as fines, blacklisting, etc.) and
        in accordance with Bank and Government regulations. In addition, some requirements on
        the contract would provide the PMU strong power to terminate consulants or facilitator
        when not perform in accordance to the job requirements.

        v.       Mitigating Collusion, Fraud & Nepotism. Opportunity for collusion and fraud
        exist in any project. Transparent and well-advertised procurement, consultant selection
        and facilitator recruitment under this project with appropriate oversight will reduce this
        form of corruption. Transparent and clear progress of project activities delivered under
        this project with appropriate oversight also will reduce this form of corruption.
        Additional virtual oversight are proposed, such as requiring the facilitators to take
        pictures of the activity processes then to upload the pictures to the website on a regular
        basis, at least weekly. Additional fiduciary resources in the form of a professional
        financial management specialist to assist the PMU to review every invoice and other
        document submitted by the consultant to the PMU before the PMU make any decision
        also will reduce the possibility of corruption.

Corruption Risk Mapping Matrix
63. Limiting the occurrence of corruption in this Project starts with identifying potential
corruption areas - this is called corruption mapping. For every area of corruption, the potential
opportunities for corruption to be identified. An assessment of the level of risk then to be made on
every opportunity of corruption identified. Based on the identified opportunity for corruption and
its risk level, then, a set of mitigation actions is formulated. The corruption risk-mapping matrix
is included in the Project Operation Manual (POM), and will be cleared by the bank.

64. This corruption mapping, opportunities for corruption and its level of risk might change
during the progress of the project. Those changes might require some changes in mitigation
action. Therefore, the corruption risk mapping matrix formulation will be repeated every six
months as the project progresses and lessons are learned.




                                                89
                            Annex 16: Map of the Project Area




1
Source: ILO oflce, Nias Island, Indonesia



                                            90
