                                                                                         RP948


         Nias Livelihoods and Economic Development Program (Nias LEDP)
                   Environment and Social Safeguards Framework


This safeguards framework was developed by the Ministry of Development of Disadvantage Areas of the
Government of Indonesia in accordance with the World Bank saferguards policy. It addresses the three
safeguard areas which would be triggered under the implementation of the proposed Livelihood
Economic development for Nias. This includes the Environmental Impact, The Indgenous Peoples and the
Involuntary Resettlement.

1. The Project
     a) Project Name : Nias Livelihood Economic Development Project
     b) Source of Fund : Grant from Multi Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and Sumatera Utara through the
        World Bank.( as Partner Agency)
     c) Grant Amount (proposed) : US$ 8.2 million. The program will be implemented between 2010
        and 2012.
     d) Project Location: Nias Island (5 kabupaten) North Sumatera Province.
     e) Grant Recipient : Government of Indonesia
     f) Executing Agency: BAPPENAS, Implementing Agency : Kementrian Pembangunan Daerah
        Tertinggal (Ministry of Development of Disadvantage Area)
     g) Project Development Objectives (PDO) : to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery and
        poverty alleviation by improving the ability of the Government to work with poor rural
        households in Nias to identify, develop and sustain livelihood opportunities. The PDO will be
        achieved by :
        i. Identifying and addressing community's organization, knowledge, input and marketing
             constraints to livelihood development in selected Kecamatans of Nias Island. The project
             would train and empower smallholder farmers and government staff to support village group-
             led activities in increasing farming efficiency. It would emphasize successful small farming
             business development rather than large-scale agricultural development. Training to support
             this aim would emphasize the technical, social, organizational, financial, management and
             marketing aspects of small business.
        ii. Implementing agricultural and other livelihood improvement activities.
        iii. Raising the capacity of the district (Kabupaten) governments in program management,
             monitoring and evaluation.

     h) Project Component

          Project activities are focused to support local government and community groups. All funds for
          the project activities (consultants, supplies, equipments, training and study tours) will be
          channeled though the Project Management Unit (PMU) at the KPDT. The PMU will be primarily
          based in the field in Nias to better support district governments and community beneficiaries.

          i.    Component 1: Livelihood Groups and Institutional Empowerment

          The objective of this component is to empower beneficiaries (livelihood groups and district
          government) to improve their capacity to acquire the technical, social, organizational, financial,
                                                                                                               1




          management and marketing skills for livelihoods development activities. Most of the activities
                                                                                                               Page




Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
          involve training and group facilitation. This capacity building will benefit the indeginous people
          of Nias as well as others.

          ii. Component 2: Agricultural and Other Livelihoods Improvement

          The component would function through small group and village level grants and through
          assistance to Kabupaten government in agricultural support services.

          The objective of this component is to address the issue of low productivity and poor post harvest
          processing and market prices (for rubber, cocoa, rice, and livestock). This component is focused
          on livelihood improvement goals, rather than area targets for replanting or rehabilitation. The
          component will also support marketing for livelihood groups. It is expected that nursaries run at
          the district level will be developed and thus there is possibility that land acquisition will be
          practiced and thus the involuntary resettlement is triggered. Further more, the investments in
          improving the agriculture targeted species will require properly addressing the environmental
          impacts as well as making sure that the Indigenous Peoples are among the beneficiaries.

          iii. Component 3: Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

          The objective of this component is to develop management and technical capacity for
          implementation of livelihoods programs on Nias within the Kabupaten and Kecamatans, as well
          as with KPDT. A consultant team will provide the necessary project implementation and
          management, livelihood support.

2. Objectives of the Safeguards Framework
     a) The safeguardsframework is to provide general policies and guidelines to serve the following
        objectives:
           i.   Protect human health;
          ii.   Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual investments or their
                cumulative effects;
         iii.   Enhance positive environmental outcomes;
         iv.    Protect community members from worse-off living condition due to the taking of land
                and/or reduced access to natural resources
          v.    Protect community members from degradation of cultural life and value;
         vi.    Avoid conflict among community members and strengthen community social
                cohesiveness.

     b) All livelihood activities that will be financed by the Nias LEDP project would be in compliance
        with GOI environmental rules and regulations, as well as with environmental policies of the
        World Bank. The project will follow the Bank's Policy for Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and
        Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10). The project would have provisions for environmental
        screening and environmental assessment reports (if necessary) of sub-projects to help ensure that
        the sub-projects are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus improve decision making.
        During the environmental screening, the proposed sub-project will also be screened against any
        potential land acquisition needs and potential impacts to the Indigenous Peoples (IP). The
        environmental and social assessments will run in parallel with the process of designing a sub-
        projects and implementing it, and the type and their details will depend on the nature, scale and
                                                                                                               2




        any potential environmental risks. It is the responsibility of the Government of Indonesia as the
                                                                                                               Page




        recipient of the Grants to ensure that these policies are conformed with.


Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
     c) The PMU team and consultants who support the GoI (Bappenas and KPDT) will specify in detail
        the social and environmental management procedures of this framework in the operations
        manual.

3. Potential Positive and Adverse Environmental and Social Impacts from the
   Project
     a) The project will not lead to land conversion, destruction of environmentally sensitive areas,
        historically significant sites or other cultural resources. The project will benefit the people of
        Nias including the IPs.
     b) A number of potential environmental risks have been listed from the study conducted (ERM, Aug
        2008) to examine the possible impacts and mitigation measures from Nias-LEDP on the
        environment and habitat that may occur as follows:
        i) Increased use of pesticides and fertilizers
             Currently, very little pesticide or fertilizer is used in Nias, especially for rubber or cacao
             production. Use of fertilizers such as urea, SP-36, TSP and KCL are likely to increase,
             although there are alternatives, while biological control methods will be promoted for pest
             control. Increased use of pesticides and fertilizers will have risks for health and safety during
             storage and application, pollution of drinking water sources, and ecological impacts.
             Additional screening criteria (negative lists) will apply that no procurement or application of
             pesticides will be financed by the project.
        j) Potential environmental benefits of the livelihoods component. There are potential positive
             environmental impacts if livelihoods programs include environmental programs, for example
             tree planting for watershed management.
        k) Indirect impacts due to improved livelihoods. Increased incomes due to improving
             livelihoods on Nias will, as planned, result in increased consumption and investment on the
             island. As yet, however, there are few, ineffective means of preserving natural or cultural
             assets on the island (e.g., watersheds, ecologically important areas etc). Therefore, measures
             will be required to improve measures for the preservation of critical assets.
     c) Consequently, the consultant teams that will be engaged under the project will need to have a
        good understanding on related environmental and social impacts and how such impacts can
        mitigated via appropriate planning, design, and implementation measures.
     d) Social Issues. The program activities may entail financing of activities which could involve social
        issues associated with agriculture, and other economic development and job creation projects. In
        general, the program activities that will be designed and implemented are likely to be of small
        scale. As a result, the level of associated social risks is likely to be limited. However, it is
        important for planning processes, including prioritization of economic development needs, to
        reflect community needs and specifically those of vulnerable groups (such as women and the
        poorest in the society).
     e) The development of district nurseries and other supporting agricultural facilities may involve land
        acquisition and thus an involuntary resettlement framework is essential to deal with any possible
        land acquisition procesdure.


4. Environmental Framework
     a) The Nias LEDP would make use of the large body of technical and operational manuals
                                                                                                                 3




        developed by Nias KRRP and PNPM Rural/KDP. A range of environmental and engineering
                                                                                                                 Page




        specialists have reviewed these manuals, and they meet all WB standards. One of the guidelines

Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
          is the Environmental Assessment Form from the Technical Operation Manual-PNPM Rural (or
          Formulir Petunjuk Teknis Operasional PPK (Environmental Assessment Form)
     b) Environmental safeguards policies will be implemented in the following manner:
        i.     Nias LEDP technical and field staff will receive environmental awareness instruction as part
               of their skills-training courses, and will make use of existing PNPM/KDP social and
               environmental checklists, manuals and mitigation techniques. The checklist provides a
               readily-available and easy-to-use form on which data can be recorded, and ensures that all
               items are covered during the village interviews.
       ii.     During discussions with target communities on their priorities, and the planning of LEDP
               assistance, LEDP extension officers will include environmental considerations amongst the
               technical constraints and considerations that they will discuss with communities, including
               the zoning restrictions. Extension officers will also promote livelihood projects with
               environmental benefits at this stage;
      iii.     On submission of an application for financing, as part of the approval process for sub-
               projects, adherence to the zoning restrictions and technical guidelines will be verified by the
               LEDP PMU;
      iv.      Environmental screening of villages will take place as part of the Needs Assessment. The
               environmental screening will make note of such aspects of the village as topography (steep,
               flat, susceptible to landslides, etc.), local water bodies, waste handling practices, sanitation,
               potable water supply, etc. The environmental screening will allow Nias LEDP senior
               personnel to quickly identify hazards or concerns, bring them to the attention of field
               personnel for further investigation, or highlight items for consideration during sub-project
               design.
       v.      Periodic checks on project activities will be carried out by the LEDP PMU, to verify zoning
               compliance.


           Zone                            Consists of            Restricted Activities            Objectives

Livelihood                          All areas outside of the     None. LEDP activities      To focus livelihoods and
Development Zone                    zones listed in this table   are actively promoted      economic development,
                                    below                                                   and government services
                                                                                            in population `clusters'

Flooding and Landslide              Secondary forests, slope     Conversion of mixed        To avoid rubber/cacao
Sensitive Zones                     greater than 40% and         forest to pure stands of   cultivation leading to
                                    slopes greater than 15%      rubber or cacao            increased incidence of
                                    with sensitive soils                                    flooding and landslides
                                    (backshore, river bank,
                                    lake and dam-side and
                                    around springs)

Ecological protection               Peat swamp areas, areas      All LEDP activities        Complete avoidance of
zones                               of primary forest, length                               any impacts on
                                    of coasts with coral                                    remaining areas of
                                    reefs. Gazzetted                                        natural habitats, areas of
                                    protected areas.                                        greatest species
                                                                                            diversity, and areas
                                                                                            where threatened
                                                                                            species remain.
                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                         Page




Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
     c) The completion of the environmental form is an obligatory part of the planning process. Each
        type of sub-project is checked for the various treatments that must be performed on it to avoid or
        repair environmental problems. At any point during activities, the same form is brought out to
        the field and reviewed, at a time when it is still feasible to easily repair deficiencies. At the end
        of activities, the form is reviewed again.
     d) Additional Screening Criteria (Negative List)
            i.   Ozone-depleting substances. No sub-project using or producing these materials will be
                 financed.
           ii.   Pesticides. The project will not finance the procurement or application of pesticides.
          iii.   Asbestos. No asbestos-containing materials will be financed.
          iv.    Hazardous materials and wastes. No sub-project will be financed that uses, produces,
                 stores or transports hazardous materials (toxic, corrosive or explosive) or material that
                 classified as "B3" (hazardous wastes) in Indonesian law.
           v.    Development in protected areas. Sub-project that would be located in a protected area or
                 might change the purpose and/or designation of a protected area will not be financed by
                 the project. Protected areas are identified in The Decree or the Minister of the State for
                 the Environment of the Republic of Indonesia Number KEP-11/MENLH/2006, entitled
                 Concerning the Types of Businesses Activities Required Completing an Environmental
                 Impact Assessment. The list includes notably: forest protection area; marine/freshwater
                 conservation areas; nature tourism park; areas surrounding lakes and reservoirs; coastal
                 mangrove areas; national parks; coastal edges; forest parks; cultural reserves; areas
                 surrounding springs; scientific research areas; and nature conservation areas.

     e) Monitoring Efforts.
        The third mitigation measure tool is developing and implementing monitoring efforts both on
        environment and social issues. The results of this monitoring effort will be integrated into the
        overall project M&E reporting. The project will also conduct a social and environmental review
        and assessment after one year of field implementation.

5. Cultural Property
     a) The highly participatory nature of the project will ensure that farmers/women groups can identify
        any proposed activities that may have an impact on cultural property. Given the nature of the
        project, it is very unlikely that the project will support activities affecting cultural property.
        However, the village-based consultants (Extension Technical Experts/Coordinators) will screen
        any sub-project proposal and verify that no cultural property will be affected in the farming areas
        or in the women groups' working areas. In cases where a sub-project affects a cultural property,
        the project will not finance such sub-project.

6. Land Acquisition and Resettlement framework.
     a) Land requirement for any sub-project with significantly large land requirement causing
        displacement and/or significant social adverse impacts on large number of households will not be
        acceptable. In the case a sub-project needs land acquisition or other assets attached to it, any
        affected people have the right to receive compensation and be informed about their right. The
        farmers/women groups will decide the method for acquiring land for program activities, which
        will follow these principles:
           i.    Project activities will avoid land acquisition, and if land acquisition is unavoidable, it will
                                                                                                                   5




                 be minimized through design;
                                                                                                                   Page




Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
             ii.     Land acquisition will be carried out in full consultation with or among the project
                     affected persons/land owners, participatory and transparent to all involved;
            iii.     Project affected persons have been clearly informed of their right on compensation at the
                     public meeting regardless of land acquisition schemes that they choose;
            iv.      Project affected persons (PAP) will not be socially and economically worse-off due to the
                     taking of the land by activity;
             v.      Selection of scheme and level of compensation (if any) will have to be agreed by the
                     project affected persons and by the farmers/women groups who need the land;
            vi.      Process and agreement on the scheme of land acquisition must be documented, and be
                     made available to public at any point of time.

     b) An activity that needs to acquire land will have to include a Land Acquisition and Resettlement
        Action Plan (LARAP) in its sub-project proposal. As the project is unlikely to involve large scale
        land acquisition and will involve full participation of the community groups during sub-project
        preparation and implementation, a simple format of LARAP would be appropriate. Requirements
        and format of the LARAP will be provided in the Operation Manuals.

     c) Experiences from similar projects like PNPM Rural and Urban, required land for the sub-projects
          would be obtained through any one of the following options:
        i.   Direct Purchase. Where possible the required land will be acquired through direct purchase
             based on `willing buyer willing seller' principle, as the first option. Negotiations for direct
             purchase would be carried-out in a public place and in transparent manner. All proceedings
             will be documented and final agreement would be signed by the negotiating parties in the
             presence of NGOs or civil society and countersigned by the village head. The negotiated
             amount will be paid the latest within three months from the date of final agreement of the
             negotiated settlement by the negotiating parties. Timing of the payment will be agreed during
             the negotiation.
       ii.   Voluntary Donation. Voluntary contribution of land and/or other assets is quite common in
             Indonesian villages, assuming that an individual loses insignificant amounts of land. Land
             donation is acceptable only if: (i.) the land donator receives direct benefit from the project
             and they are not poor people, or becoming worse-off after the land taking; (ii.) project
             affected peoples have been informed clearly of their right on compensation (as stated in the
             Operation Manual) at a public meeting, but nevertheless they are still willing to donate
             without any pressure.

     d) Land owners will be informed that they are entitled to getting compensation prior to the decision
        of contributing the land voluntarily. Voluntary donation of land for a sub-project would be an
        acceptable option where:
            i.  The land is identified by the beneficiary communities and confirmed by technical staff to
                be suitable for the sub-project and free from any environmental or health risks;
           ii.  the impacts on the land owners are marginal and do not result in displacement of
                households or cause loss of household's incomes and livelihood;
         iii.   the households making voluntary donations are direct beneficiary of the sub-project;
          iv.   land thus donated is free from any dispute on ownership or any other encumbrances;
           v.   consultations with the affected households is conducted in a free and transparent manner;
          vi.   land transactions are supported by transfer of titles; and
         vii.   documentation of consultation meetings, grievances and actions taken to address such
                grievances are properly documented.
                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                 Page




     e) A protocol for direct purchase and voluntary donation of land for sub-projects will be included in
        the Operations Manual. Sub-projects sponsors will be required to submit appropriate documents

Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
        together with the sub-projects proposals to show the process to be used for obtaining the required
        land.
     f) In the case that the local government is planning to acquire private land or community land for
        the purpose that is related to the project (e.g. for nursery, drying field, etc), it can be done through
        willing buyer willing seller approach if it involves land less than 1 Ha, or, if more than 1 Ha the
        Bank's Policy OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement will apply.



7. Indigenous Peoples' (IPs)' or Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples' (IVPs) Planning
   Framework.
     a) The Main issues
        The main issues related to indigenous peoples (IPs) or isolated and vulnerable groups in Nias are:
           i.  The local elite, though they come from the same ethnic group, often dominate and exploit
               the vulnerable and marginal groups.
          ii.  Land conflicts relate to customary land. The common conflict can be divided into three
               categories:
         iii.  Conflict over boundaries between sub-clans;
         iv.   Sub-clan family land that is located outside the village has been taken over by the
               government (i.e. for public areas) or by other villages where the land is located (claim
               owned by other sub-clan land)
          v.   Cases where sub-clan land was used by outsiders under customary agreement but was
               then claimed as government land or which become disputed land (mostly in the south of
               Nias)
         vi.    Women have very weak positions in the society; have a very limited role in public
               decision making and have no right to land ownership. Special processes have to be built
               to make sure that women would get equal benefit from the project. The project includes
               creation of livelihood groups exclusive for women only.


     b) The principles

              i.     Vulnerable groups, including indigenous peoples, women and low level sub-clan families
                     would get equal benefit from the project
             ii.     Family from low level sub-clans will not be worse off because of this project
            iii.     IPs and vulnerable groups will be fully consulted in all decision making process, from the
                     planning stage, implementation and maintenance stage.


     c) The process for impact mitigation

          Community decision making includes the processes summarized below:
             i. Consultants ensure that planning process fully and appropriately engage vulnerable
                groups, including the IPs, women and low level sub-clan;
            ii. Consultants consult vulnerable individuals and groups in the appropriate forum or
                meeting place. Results of these discussions will be reported through the monthly report
                and included in the project monitoring reports;
           iii. Special meetings with women and marginalized groups on their view of the proposed
                                                                                                                   7




                sub-project have to be carried out. The minutes will be reported to the environmental and
                                                                                                                   Page




                social management officer in the PMU;

Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
            iv.      Any mitigation agreed by the IPs and vulnerable groups will be as much as possible
                     incorporated in the sub-project design and its implementation is well monitored by the
                     PMU and village-based consultants.

     d) Strengthened facilitation

              i.     There will be an environmental and social management officer experienced in assisting
                     IPs, women and other vulnerable groups in village level in the PMU in Nias to analyze
                     the report of the field consultants and provide field guidance and training.
             ii.     There will be a special session and syllabus in the consultants' training curricula on how
                     to facilitate vulnerable groups;
            iii.     There will be a special chapter and process in the consultants' manual;
            iv.      There will be a standard feedback mechanism


     e) IPs or IVPs Plan and Documentation

          An IP Plan or IVP Plan for a sub-project will cover activities of (i) identifying the beneficiaries or
          the affected IPs or IVPs and their social economic characteristics, based on social assessment,
          (ii) carrying out free, prior, informed consultations during subproject preparation and
          implementation, (iii) identifying measures to avoid, minimize and address potential negative
          impacts, (iv) incorporating measures and agreements with the IP or IVP in the sub-project design
          and implementation, (v) estimating cost estimates and financing plan for implementing the IP
          Plan or IVP Plan, (vi) specifying the grievance procedures, and (vii) putting the appropriate
          mechanisms and benchmarks for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the IP Plan or
          IVP Plan. The IP Plan or IVP Plan will be part of the sub-project proposal. The implementation
          of the plan will be incorporated in the project progress report. The IP Plan or IVP Plan's
          requirements and format will be included in the Operation Manuals.

8. Institutional Arrangements
     a) LEDP `Implementation Arrangements
        The implementation of the environmental and social management frameworks (ESMF) will be,
        mainly, the responsibility of the Nias-based Project Management Unit (PMU) together with the
        local Steering Committee comprising of Bappeda of North Sumatera and Bappedas of Nias and
        Nias Selatan. In the daily operation, the PMU will be assisted by a consultant team contracted
        under the Technical Assistance component of the project. An environmental and social safeguard
        specialist will be part of the consultant team members.

     b) Responsibilities for Environmental and Social Management
        The following responsibilities are proposed within the LEDP implementation arrangements:
           i.   At the national level, a member within the steering committee will be assigned to oversee
                environmental and social issues; He or she will be assisted by the environmental/social
                expert of the Central Management Consultant;
          ii.   In the PMU, the appointment of an officer (supported by consultant resources) will
                provide technical backstopping on all aspects of environmental and social issues,
                including for mitigation of impacts and monitoring. The title for this officer is proposed
                as `environmental and social management officer', and they can be provided through the
                Technical Assistance contract;
                                                                                                                   8



         iii.   The Environmental and Social Management Officer will prepare and update the detailed
                                                                                                                   Page




                environmental and social management plan and their implementation/progress, and the


Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
                     extension consultants will be assigned to oversee the livelihoods component to integrate
                     zoning and environmentally-beneficial projects into their approach;
            iv.      Livelihoods extension consultants will have to integrate zoning and environmentally-
                     beneficial activities into their approach.


          A number of BAPPEDA staff (3 from Nias district and 4 from Nias Selatan) has received
          intensive training on environmental management in Medan. Nias Selatan District has recently
          established an environmental management division, but at present they have very little capacity to
          undertake any work, owing to a lack of experience and equipment, despite their enthusiasm.
          Nias District has not established any environmental management department. It will be the
          responsibility of the PMU Environmental and Social Management Officer to develop the
          Environmental and Social Safeguards-related instruments in detail, as part of the development of
          the Operations Manual, as their initial task on appointment. All activities concerning
          environmental and social management will be carried out in close co-operation with relevant
          departments of local government, including the Environmental Dinas, BAPPEDA and Dinas that
          handles IP and vulnerable groups

     c) Capacity Building and Training Requirements
        In order to ensure full implementation of the ESMF measures, LEDP will provide a program of
        environmental and social safeguards training and institutional capacity building. Training on the
        provision of ESMF and potential impacts of proposed livelihood activities will be required for the
        PMU. Detailed training on the ESMF will be required for Extension Consultant Teams. A key
        responsibility of the Environmental and Social Management Officer will be to deliver a range of
        technical training on environmental and social safeguards issues to PMU and the extension
        consultant teams.
        For each group, training will be provided to bring them to a different level of expertise in
        different areas:
            i.  In -depth training to a level that allows trainees to go on to train others, including
                technical procedures where relevant;
           ii.  Awareness building, in which the trainees become familiar with the issues to a sufficient
                extent that it allows them to demand their precise requirements for further technical
                assistance; and
          iii.  Awareness-raising in which the participants acknowledge the significance or relevance of
                the issues, but are not required to having technical or in-depth knowledge of the issues.


     d) Potential Linkage with the Nias Island Rural Access and Capacity Building Program (Nias-
        RACBP)
        The ILO is implementing a separate stand-alone project (funded by the MDF) to improve rural
        access in the key economic clusters in Nias, where Nias-LEDP will be implemented. ILO's Rural
        Access and Capacity Building Program (Nias-RACBP) sub-projects have strong potential to
        increase the impacts of Nias-LEDP livelihood activities.

          The Fiscal Agency Agreement (FAA) with the MDF allows the ILO to access MDF funds and
          implement according to its own operations policies. The ILO has its own environmental and
          social safeguards policy framework that is assessed to be in-line with those of the Bank and GoI.
                                                                                                                9



          Given the likelihood that some Nias LEDP and RACB activities may work with the same
                                                                                                                Page




          communities or beneficiary groups, the Nias-based PMUs of both programs will have to


Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
          coordinate their activities in the planning and implementation stage (when feasible) to increase
          efficiency and impacts. In cases where there is an overlap or complementary activities, it is
          imperative that the safeguards framework is applied consistent with the LEDP safeguards
          framework. This may require the LEDP PMU to conduct review of the application of the ILO's
          safeguards policies for its sub-projects (at the planning stage, or carrying out due diligence during
          sub-project implementation, or post-review).

          The project envisions that if the ILO satisfactorily and consistently implements its approved
          environmental and social safeguards policy framework, there will be no discrepancy with the
          safeguards principals of Nias-LEDP. In the event that there are gaps for a particular RACB sub-
          project (overlapping with Nias-LEDP activities) the Nias-based PMU will request the ILO to
          carry out remedial actions to mitigate the social and environmental impacts.

     e) Consultation and Disclosure
        The project will document the process of acquiring land including consultation process and
        agreement reached between the PAPs or land owners and the farmers/women groups. The
        document will include names of the PAPs, size and location of the acquired land (including map),
        size of remaining land, use of land, scheme of land acquisition (voluntary donation, willing-buyer
        willing-seller, utilization permit, cash compensation, swaps, etc. as agreed by both parties),
        signatures of the project affected persons/land owners, witnesses and the village chief. If it is a
        donated land, it will be clearly put in the document that it is given for the sub-project use without
        time limitation. If it is utilization permit, the time-frame should be clear in the document. Details
        of the format of documentation at the community level and at the project level will be presented
        in the project manual. The project will also document the process and results of the
        implementation of the LARAP, IPP or IVPP, and environmental management. The PMU will be
        supported by qualified consultants to facilitate the process.


          The above-said documents will be included in the sub-project proposal of the farmers/women
          groups. The village-based consultants (including Extension Technical Experts/Coordinators,
          M&E and QA monitors) will verify the document in the field as part of the sub-project screening
          and approval process. The Nias-based PMU will consolidate information from these documents
          and include it in the monthly project reports. Activities will be approved if the process of land
          acquisition conforms with the approved environmental and social safeguard framework and the
          project manual. Land acquisition must be completed prior to the implementation or program
          activities.

          World Bank policies require disclosure of sub-projects information, as part of the environmental
          (including social) assessment process. LEDP will fulfill these and Indonesian requirements for
          disclosure through the following:

          Provision of the quarterly environmental report, in Indonesian to the steering committee, and the
          placing of this report for public access in a suitable location in Gunung Sitoli and Teluk Dalam;
             i.   The project will ensure that the Environmental and Social Safeguards framework is
                  published in Info shop and the Indonesia Public Information Center, as well as in the
                  KPDT website;
            ii.   The project manuals will be published and be made available to the community
                                                                                                                  10



                  organizations (kecamatan and village level) preparing proposals, as well as in the KPDT
                  website
                                                                                                                  Page




Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
          In addition, all sub-projects will be based on participatory planning and appraisal of proposed
          projects, thereby providing for a significant, local amount of disclosure. All reports will be
          uploaded in the KPDT website.


9. Reporting and Communication

     Extension consultant teams will work closely with communities to provide guidance and advice on
     environmental and social risks of sub-projects, potential environmental sub-projects, and appropriate
     mitigation measures;
     In turn, the extension consultant teams will receive advice and support from the LEDP Environmental
     Management and Social Officer including technical advice and guidelines, as well as day-to-day
     guidance;
     The Environmental and Social Management Officer will prepare a quarterly report on the
     achievement of the implementation of the ESMF as detailed in the Operation Manualto the head of
     the PMU, who will then submit it to the LEDP steering committee and to local government as well as
     to local environmental agency and relevant local agencies handling environmental and social issues;
     A review of performance in managing the environment and social safeguards-related issues will be
     carried out ones per year by World Bank staff. Supervision on these aspects will be done at least
     twice a year.




                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                             Page




Nias LEDP Draft safeguards policy
