                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR2612



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-096865)



                                        ON A

      MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND (MDF) FOR ACEH AND NIAS GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.2 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                       FOR A

 NIAS ISLANDS LIVELIHOODS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                     May 23, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2012)

                     Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                         IDR 1,000 = US$ 0.10376
                             US$ 1.00 = 9,638

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


Bappenas    National Development Planning Agency
BRR         Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias
CDD         Community Driven Development
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
DIPA        Budget allocation for a Ministry
FM          Financial Management
FMR         Financial Management Report
 GoI        Government of Indonesia
GRDP        Gross Regional Domestic Product
IDA         International Development Association
IFR         Interim Financial Report
ILO         International Labour Organization
Kabupaten   Rural district with decentralized administrative responsibility
Kotamadya   Urban municipality with decentralized administrative responsibility
KPDT        Ministry of Development for Disadvantaged Areas
LEDP        Livelihood and Economic Development Project
LSC         Local Steering Committee
MDF         Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra (later simplified to
            Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and Nias)
MoF         Ministry of Finance
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
Oxfam       Oxford Committee for Famine Relief
PMC         Project Management Consultants
PMU         Project Management Unit
PSC         Project Steering Committee
RACB        Rural Access and Capacity Building Project (of the ILO)
SPADA       Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas in Aceh and Nias (FY07)
Sumut       Sumatera Utara (North Sumatera)
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme




                                       ii
        Vice President: Axel Van Trotsenburg
      Country Director: Stephan Koeberle
Acting Sector Manager: George Soraya
  Project Team Leader: Khairy Al Jamal
     ICR Team Leader: Khairy Al Jamal
  ICR Primary Author: Naresha Duraiswamy




                     iii
                                         INDONESIA
                 Nias Islands Livelihoods and Economic Development Program

                                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 23
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors................... 27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 38
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 43
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................ 44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 58
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 59




                                                                   iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Aceh-Nias Livelihoods
                                                                         and Economic
Country:               Indonesia               Project Name:
                                                                         Development Program
                                                                         (LEDP)
Project ID:            P110635                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-96865
ICR Date:              05/31/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:
                                                                         INDONESIA
Original Total
                       USD 8.20M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 7.87M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 7.87M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 State Ministry for the Development of Disadvantaged Areas “Kementrian Negara Pembangunan
Daerah T
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF)

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/12/2007   Effectiveness:                               10/22/2010
Appraisal:             11/09/2009   Restructuring(s):                            02/24/2012
Approval:              05/03/2010   Mid-term Review:           09/30/2011        09/16/2011
                                    Closing:                   06/30/2012        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                    19                  19
Animal production                                                       9                   6
Crops                                                                  16                  22
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       16                  13
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry               40                  40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                                                 12                  12
Rural markets                                                          13                  13
Rural policies and institutions                                        50                  50
Rural services and infrastructure                                      25                  25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                  James W. Adams
Country Director:          Stefan G. Koeberle                    Shubham Chaudhuri
Sector Manager:            George Soraya                         Franz R. Drees-Gross
Project Team Leader:       Khairy Al-Jamal                       Khairy Al-Jamal
ICR Team Leader:           Khairy Al-Jamal
ICR Primary Author:        Naresha Duraiswamy




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO is to facilitate post-disaster economic recovery by improving the ability of the
Government to work with poor rural households in Nias to identify, develop and sustain
livelihood opportunities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally          Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target         Completion or
                                                documents)           Values          Target Years
                  Training of at least 5 Kabupaten/Kota staff (per district) in program management,
Indicator 1 :
                  and monitoring and evaluation skills to be able to assist communities.
Value
quantitative or   N/A                        5.00                N/A             5.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/29/2010                  06/30/2012          12/31/2012    12/31/2012
Comments          Achieved: 28 Field Extension workers & district agricultural staff covering the 4
(incl. %          district and Gunung Sitoli kota were trained on program management, farmers'
achievement)      groups management, monitoring and evaluation.
                  At least 25% of livelihood groups retain technical and group organizational
Indicator 2 :     skills, and are accessing information, finance, and markets resulting in improved
                  livelihoods.
Value
quantitative or   N/A                        25%                 N/A             98%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/29/2010                   06/30/2012           12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments          Achieved: farmers from 98 out of 100 farmers groups were trained in various
(incl. %          agricultural technical skills related to rubber, cacao and rice, organization skill,
achievement)      access to information and financial and market
                  At least 5 Kabupaten/Kota Dinas Pertanian staff (per district) have acquired
Indicator 3 :     specific technical skills in tree crops nursery management and fertilizer handling
                  and distribution.
Value
quantitative or   N/A                        5.00                N/A             At least 19.00 staff.
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/29/2010                 06/30/2012        12/31/2012      12/31/2012
Comments          Achieved: 140 district staff and 13 Bappeda Sumut (planning) staff were trained
(incl. %          in program management associated with technical skills in tree crops (cacao and
achievement)      rubber) and nursery management.
                  At least 3 Kabupaten/Kota seedling nurseries are established, introducing
Indicator 4 :
                  improved rubber and cocoa varieties, with sustainable operating models.
Value             0                          3.00              N/A             5.00


                                                    iii
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved   07/29/2010                  06/30/2012          12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments        Achieved: Five nurseries were established and handed over to the local
(incl. %        authorities. All nurseries have already planted cocoa and rubber seedlings and
achievement)    nursery operators were appointed.
                Increased rice yields to 3.3 tons per hectare in targeted groups through
Indicator 5 :
                introduction of improved seeds of high-yielding varieties and fertilizer use.
Value                                                                          up to 5.86 with an
quantitative or 2.50                        3.30                N/A            average of 4.44
Qualitative)                                                                   tons per hectare.
Date achieved 07/29/2010                    06/30/2012          12/31/2012     12/31/2012
                Achieved: 592 farmers belonging to 15 rice groups have planted their rice fields
Comments
                with improved seeds varieties, and 9 groups have harvested twice, with yields
(incl. %
                varies from 3.0 to 5.87 tons per hectare and the average was 4.44 tons per
achievement)
                hectare.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                  approval                           Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                           Target Years
                  At least five Kabupaten/Kota staff (per district) trained in a diverse range of
Indicator 1 :
                  group livelihoods activities.
Value
(quantitative   0                           5.00               N/A           At least 5.00 staff.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/29/2010                    06/30/2012         12/31/2012    12/31/2012
                Achieved:20 district staff and 6 Bappeda Sumut staff have been trained in "Agro
Comments
                pastoral Development Training for Food Security and Energy Self Sufficiency".
(incl. %
                15 district staff and one Bappeda Sumut staff have been trained in agricultural
achievement)
                marketing.
                Methodologies for group selection, formation and strengthening available and
Indicator 2 :
                documented.
                                                                             All groups were
                                            All groups to be
                                                                             established.
Value                                       established and
                                                                             Assessment of
(quantitative   N/A                         their formation    N/A
                                                                             groups' formation
or Qualitative)                             and establishment
                                                                             and establishment
                                            would be assessed.
                                                                             was completed.
Date achieved 01/07/2010                    06/30/2012         12/31/2012    12/31/2012
Comments
                Achieved: All groups were established. Assessment of groups' formation and
(incl. %
                establishment was completed, and the report was finalized.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : 75% satisfaction with group and village selection process.
Value
                N/A                         75.00              N/A           86.46
(quantitative



                                                 iv
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   07/29/2010                   06/30/2012        12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments        Achieved: Selected was made through consultative process with the local
(incl. %        authorities. Community satisfaction survey plan was implementation by M&E
achievement)    Team and found that 86.46% of the groups were satisfied with the process.
Indicator 4 :   Improved diversity of livelihoods as indicated in monitoring surveys.
                                                                              Wide range of
                                                                              livelihoods
                                                                              including the
                                                                              raising of pigs and
Value                                        Wide range of
                                                                              hens; plantation of
(quantitative   0                            livelihoods is    N/A
                                                                              corn, chili and
or Qualitative)                              identified
                                                                              beans; and
                                                                              production of
                                                                              compost and
                                                                              organic pesticides.
Date achieved 07/29/2010                     06/30/2012        12/31/2012     12/31/2012
                Achieved: Wide range of livelihoods including the raising of pigs and hens;
Comments
                plantation of corn, chilli and beans; and production of compost and organic
(incl. %
                pesticides. Survey plan was conducted by M&E Team and results were presented
achievement)
                in the final report.
                At least 20% of livelihood groups are fully functional at mid-term and are being
Indicator 5 :
                supported by functional nursery and other supply systems.
Value
(quantitative   0                            20.00             N/A            95.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/29/2010                     06/30/2012        12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments
                Achieved: All 100 groups have been established and 95 of them received training
(incl. %
                and applied the knowledge for planting rice, cocoa and rubber.
achievement)
                Project management team established, staff trained and using systems and
Indicator 6 : procedures aligned with World Bank procurement and safeguards
                methodologies.
                                                                              All project
                                                                              management teams
                                                                              functioning, and all
                                                                              staff training,
Value                                                                         systems, and
                                             Fully functioning
(quantitative   N/A                                            N/A            procedures
                                             PMU and PIU.
or Qualitative)                                                               delivered, aligned
                                                                              with Bank
                                                                              requirements, and
                                                                              incorporate into
                                                                              operational manual.
Date achieved 07/29/2010                     06/30/2012        12/31/2012     12/31/2012
Comments        Achieved: Management teams were functioning, and all staff training, systems,
(incl. %        and procedures delivered, aligned with Bank requirements, and incorporated into
achievement) operational manual.
Indicator 7 : Baseline survey, benchmark monitoring surveys and evaluation in proposed


                                                v
                  project areas completed on time.
                                             Surveys,
Value
                                             monitoring, and                 Completed but with
(quantitative     N/A                                          N/A
                                             evaluation                      delay
or Qualitative)
                                             completed on time
Date achieved     07/29/2010                 03/30/2011        03/30/2011    12/31/2011
Comments          Achieved with delay: Surveys, monitoring, and evaluation completed with delay.
(incl. %          Baseline survey was conducted in October and November 2011 and the report
achievement)      was completed in March 2012.
                  Annual and final audit, procurement and financial management reports available
Indicator 8 :
                  on time.
Value                                                                        All due reports
                                             Timely completion
(quantitative     N/A                                          N/A           have been received
                                             and compliance.
or Qualitative)                                                              in a timely manner.
Date achieved     07/29/2010                 06/30/2012        12/31/2012    12/31/2012
Comments
                Achieved: All due reports have been received in a timely manner and in
(incl. %
                compliance with the Bank guidelines.
achievement)
                At least 40% of livelihood groups adopt project recommendations by project
Indicator 9 :
                conclusion.
Value
(quantitative   0                           40%                 N/A          69%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/29/2010                    06/30/2012          12/31/2012   12/31/2012
                Achieved: All groups were enthusiastic and found to adhere to the
Comments
                recommendation of good practice of rice, cocoa and rubber farming and
(incl. %
                horticulture; as well as pigs and hens raising. But, 69% showed good behavior
achievement)
                change.
Indicator 10 : Client days of training provided (number).
Value
(quantitative   0                           20,600              N/A          44,940 farmer.day
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/29/2010                    06/30/2012          12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments        Achieved: Around 12 days training on rubber, cocoa and rice farming;
(incl. %        machinery, horticulture; animal husbandry; book keeping; and composting were
achievement) provided accounting for 44940 Farmer.day.
Indicator 11 : Client days of training provided - Female (number).
Value
(quantitative   0                           7665                N/A          16,704 woman.day
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/29/2010                    06/30/2012          12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments        Achieved: Around 12 days training on rubber, cocoa and rice farming;
(incl. %        machinery, horticulture; animal husbandry; book keeping; and composting were
achievement) provided to Female farmers accounting for 16704 woman.day.




                                                vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    09/21/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              1.89
  2    12/25/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              2.54
  3    12/24/2012   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                     7.10


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of the closing date to
 02/24/2012       N       MS    MS            3.89
                                                     12/31/2012.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Nias Disaster Reconstruction: The tsunami of December 2004, followed quickly by the
magnitude 8.7 earthquake in March 2005, caused severe damage to the island of Nias 1.
The island’s damage was estimated at US$392 million, equivalent to 108% of its gross
regional domestic product (GRDP). Over 13,000 houses were destroyed, transportation
infrastructure was badly damaged, and loss of life was estimated at around a thousand
people. The Government of Indonesia (GoI) established the Agency for Reconstruction
and Rehabilitation in Aceh and Nias (BRR), and together with the local and provincial
governments, donors and NGOs, made significant progress toward rebuilding damaged
assets and restoring the local economy. At appraisal, the transport network was in better
condition than before the disasters -- a key element to building community support for
continuing the island’s economic recovery.

Low Capacity in Nias: The BRR’s mandate ended in April 2009, so local and provincial
governments became responsible for continuing the reconstruction efforts. However the
capacity of the district civil service in Nias was low by Indonesian standards. Unlike
Aceh, Nias did not benefit from special autonomy funds and Nias was receiving the
lowest per capita central government allocations in the province of North Sumatra.
Given its severe capacity constraints, continued support to local governments was
required to maintain reconstruction momentum.

Economic and social indicators in Nias were among the lowest in North Sumatra and
lagged behind the national average. Nias’ poverty rate at 32% was double the national
average. Only 15% of households in Nias and 8% of households in South Nias had
access to clean water. Grid connection rated stood at 33% in Nias and 25% in South Nias.
Contributing factors were the island’s remote location, restricted markets and information
access, weak local government capacity, and low levels of public investment.

Nias was and remains a rural society dependent on subsistence farming, which
accounted for 42% of the GRDP and employed some 87% of the workforce compared to
45% nationally. The major crops by planted area were rubber, coconut, rice and cocoa.
Farming was carried out by smallholders largely due to the unavailability of large tracts
of land needed for larger plantation style crops like oil palm. Average agricultural yields
were low for all crops relative to comparable national benchmarks due to pests, low
quality soils, little use of fertilizer, poor genetic stock and post-harvest grading practices.
For rubber, farmers deliberately adulterated latex with rocks, soil, vegetation and water to
increase market weight, but actually this practice resulted in price discounts of up to 30%.
Livestock production was popular especially among women, but capital was a major


1
 Nias is an island 160 kilometers to the west of Sumatra with an area of 5,120 square kilometers and a
population of 757,000.It is vulnerable to natural disasters as it is located on a tectonic fault-line.



                                                    1
constraint, as were disease and parasite control and poor feeding strategies. Nevertheless,
there was considerable scope to improve productivity and incomes for smallholder
farmers. Average farm size (1.5ha) was adequate to achieve reasonable livelihoods
assuming yields and quality could be improved. There were some 100,000 farms on Nias,
and field observations revealed that large tracks of idle land that could be used to
augment rubber and cocoa crops.

With the Multi Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and Nias scheduled to close in December
2012, GoI approached the Bank for a project that could further facilitate economic
recovery in Nias through a short but strategic project aimed at improving the livelihoods
of smallholders. The project would scale up other smaller successful operations and
would provide (a) technical assistance and training to both farmers and local government
staff in best practice agricultural methods, and (b) good quality agricultural inputs to
increase yield and investment capital to help diversify incomes. The project would build
the stepping stones to alleviating food shortages and making smallholders more resilient
to economic shocks and natural disasters.

The tsunami struck in December 2004 while Nias Livelihood and Economic
Development Project (Nias LEDP) was approved only in May 2010. The project was
requested late. The BRR had initially focused on infrastructure reconstruction and not
rural livelihoods. It subsequently sought a project that included in its scope agricultural
livelihood and the construction of access roads to ensure market connectivity. BRR later
realized that a simpler project solely devoted to rural livelihoods and another dedicated to
rural access roads alone was preferred. These factors explained the late processing of
LEDP. The Rural Access and Capacity Building (RACAB) project was processed
separately and implemented by the International Labor Organization (ILO). However, the
two projects maintained their integrity and complementarity where the activities of LEDP
took place at locations served by the RACAB project.

Rationale for Bank Involvement: The Bank was well suited to intervene given its
experience in capacity strengthening and community-driven development especially with
the then ongoing Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas (SPADA) for Aceh and Nias
Project (FY07). The Bank was also active in the reconstruction of Aceh and in the
agricultural sector with the ongoing Farmer Empowerment through Agricultural
Technology and Information Project (FY07). The proposed project addressed the core
theme of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) to invest in institutions and
reduce poverty. The Bank also had very ample donor coordination experience, which it
would use to work closely with the ILO, the agency responsible for implementing
(RACB) project, as a sister project which linked infrastructure reconstruction with
recovery in livelihoods.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)




                                             2
The development objectives of the LEDP were to facilitate post-disaster economic
recovery by improving the ability of the Government to work with poor rural households
in Nias to identify, develop and sustain livelihood opportunities.

The Key Performance Indicators were:

(i) At least five Kabupaten/Kota staff per district 2 trained in program management,
    monitoring and evaluation skills to be able to assist communities;

(ii) At least 25% of livelihood groups retain group technical and organizational skills, and
     are accessing information, finance and markets resulting in improved livelihoods;

(iii)At least five Kabupaten/Kota Dinas Pertanian3 staff per district have acquired specific
     technical skills in tree crops nursery management and fertilizer handling and
     distribution;

(iv) At least three Kabupaten/Kota seedling nurseries are established, introducing
     improved rubber and cocoa varieties with sustainable operating models; and

(v) Increased rice yields to 3.3 tons per hectare in targeted producing groups through the
    introduction of improved high yield varieties of seeds and fertilizer use.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

N/A


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Project activities took place in the four districts and one municipality of Nias. Altogether,
100 farmer groups (82 mixed-gender, 18 female), each composed of about 40 households
received training on improved farming practices, marketing strategies, livestock-raising,
etc., under component 1. They also received agricultural inputs such as improved seed,
seedlings, fertilizer, tools, equipment which helped increase their yields and productivity
and diversify their incomes to build resilience to economic shocks and natural disasters.
The project also provided demonstration effects for neighboring farmers not participating
directly in farmers groups.



2
 Nias had four Kabupaten i.e. Nias (Central), North Nias, South Nias, West Nias and one Kota i.e. Gunung
Sitoli.

3
    The Dinas Pertanian refers to the Department of Agricultural Services at the local-level.



                                                        3
The project provided agricultural extension training for the five local government
departments responsible for agricultural extension services and planning to help farmers
improve their livelihoods. A total of 28 local government extension workers, with at
least five staff from each local government, received training on improving food security,
agricultural marketing, coordination of supply, correct fertilizer usage, etc., to build their
capacity and to assist farmers after closing.

Finally the project provided training to staff of the Ministry of Development of
Disadvantaged Areas (KDPT) and other central and provincial line agencies on subjects
such as group formation, social mapping, program management and livelihoods and food
security.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The LEDP had three components, focusing on empowerment, implementation, and
program management and monitoring as described in greater detail below.

Component 1: Livelihood Groups and Institutional Empowerment (US$ 1.95 million,
24% of the total). This component was to empower beneficiaries (livelihood groups and
district government) to improve their capacity to acquire the social, management,
financial and technical skills for livelihood activities, mostly involving technical training
and group facilitation. The component financed:

   Training for mixed-gender farmer groups in social, technical, marketing, and
    financial aspects of livelihood development for agricultural development. They would
    participate in farming systems development involving rubber, cocoa rehabilitation
    and livestock breeding activities for income improvement and manure supply;
   Training for women’s farmer groups in social, technical, marketing and financial
    aspects of livelihood development. Women’s groups were specifically targeted
    because they offered an opportunity to develop a wider range of livelihood
    opportunities in addition to primary production. It was hoped a wider diversity of
    opportunities would enhance resilience of incomes against economic and disaster
    related stress; and
   Training and equipment for local government agriculture services staff to facilitate
    further involvement in project activities beyond the project’s life. This included
    training on public expenditure planning, selection of target areas, balancing activities
    to improve gender equity, and coordination of supply of foundation and commercial
    rice seed and appropriate fertilizers. It also covered livestock vaccination. Training
    also covered pragmatic measures to educate and integrate disaster resilience
    interventions. Local governments also received training on coordinating project
    activities with other organizations operating in Nias such as the United Nations.

Component 2: Agriculture and Other Livelihoods Improvement (US$ 4.6 million, 56%
of the total). This component supported implementation of program activities set up




                                              4
through component 1 utilizing small group community support grants and technical
support services. This component was composed of three subcomponents:

Subcomponent 2.1: Implementation of Mixed-Gender and Women’s Farmer Group
Activities. This would finance the implementation of activities to address the issues of
low productivity and poor post-harvest processing and market prices for rubber, cocoa,
rice and livestock. It also provided support for marketing agricultural products.
Financing would be provided through the use of community support grants to be
disbursed to farmer groups in two tranches. The aim was to promote ownership of the
activities and use of farming systems to facilitate sustainable agriculture practice through
mixed crop/livestock systems.

Subcomponent 2.2: Support to Local Government Agricultural Services. This was
designed to strengthen agricultural support services to develop improved rice food
security, develop skills in nursery management for tree crops, improve agricultural
diversification, and strengthen support service such as veterinary medicine supply,
marketing linkages, etc. Major activities included (i) provision of foundation seed of
high yield varieties and fertilizer inputs, livestock; (ii) support to develop livestock and
crop activities where there was no private supplier to improve readiness of supply; and
(iii) establishment of tree crops nurseries managed by the local governments, with the
aim to introduce better yielding varieties of rubber and cocoa trees more appropriate for
Nias’ conditions.

Subcomponent 2.3 included a budget of US$150,000 for special studies, trainings,
activities, to be chosen in ad-hoc basis for program needs arising during implementation.

Component 3: Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 1.65 million, 20% of the
total). The objective of this component was to develop management and technical
capacity for implementation of the livelihoods programs in Nias within the local
governments and KPDT. A consultant team would provide the necessary project and
financial procurement, and M&E support. Specifically this component financed:

   Program management to support the Program Management Unit (PMU), and the
    Program Steering Committees (PSCs) for monitoring and evaluation, financial
    management, safeguards, quality assurance, procurement, adherence to the
    governance and accountability framework and program reporting; and
   Livelihoods support, to provide the necessary technical consultants at the district and
    village levels, with dual roles in group strengthening under components 1 and 2. A
    monitoring and evaluation team (M&E) would be supported for the elaboration of the
    baseline survey, monitoring surveys and impact evaluation prior to closure.

Project operational expenses were also covered under this component.


1.6 Revised Components




                                             5
N/A


1.7 Other significant changes

The project underwent a Level II Country Director-approved restructuring on February
24, 2012 to extend the closing date six months from June 30, 2012 to December 31, 2012.
The extension was necessary to complete implementation of training, input delivery and
farmer group activities to fully achieve the PDO.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background Analysis: Background analysis accurately identified the structural constraints
to improving rural livelihoods in Nias as low local government capacity, poor farmer
understanding of crop management, lack of quality inputs and poor market access. The
analysis prioritized the rice, cocoa and rubber sectors for support given their importance
to local household incomes. It highlighted the need to improve agricultural practices,
increase yields, support intercropping, diversify activities into raising livestock,
horticulture and market gardening, and better management of household incomes. The
analysis was informed by pilot experiences conducted under an Oxfam livelihoods
project that showed yield increases of 0.4t/ha were possible and that farmers were keen to
adopt new knowledge to improve their crops. A UNDP pilot demonstrated that improved
seed and fertilizer inputs could have a major impact on rice productivity. LEDP scaled up
these experiences with an innovative post-disaster response program, combining multi-
crop training and input delivery services targeted at both farmer groups and local
government officials.

Design: Project design was purposely kept simple due to the island’s remoteness and its
low capacity. The project’s three components were tightly tailored to provide technical
training, investments in agricultural activities to implement that training, and project
management support. The project as initially conceived supported investments in roads to
improve market access, but this component was wisely separated from the project to
reduce complexity and was instead undertaken in parallel by the ILO’s RACB Project.

In addition to learning from the Oxfam and UNDP pilots, project design also benefited
from lessons learned from implementation of the Bank’s portfolio of CDD projects
including the importance of (a) robust field-based supervision arrangements to overcome
social constraints; (b) selection and training of facilitators with appropriate social,
technical and financial skills before launching project investments; (c) retention of good
facilitators through financial incentives; and (d) offering a simpler mix of activities that
require less supervision, in light of the geographic isolation of the project area. Lessons
learned from two agricultural sector projects were also incorporated including: (a) using
group organizational methodologies to avoid elite capture, ensure women’s participation,


                                             6
and promote equity; and (b) allowing direct transfers to farmer group bank accounts and
requiring female and male signatures and management by elected committee.

Quality at Entry Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Alignment with CPS: The project addressed the core themes of the Bank’s CPS to invest
in institutions to improve effectiveness and accountability and was consistent with the
CPS imperative for poverty reduction and sustainable resource management, particularly
in rural areas. It was also aligned with GoI’s National Poverty Reduction Program
The PDO of facilitating post disaster recovery and improving government capacity was
well defined as the project was able to achieve this objective through building the
capacity of 100 farmers groups. Though this represents 2.5% of the population of Nias,
the knowledge gained by the Nias people and safeguarded by KPDT and local authorities
will enable the project scaling up within Nias in particular and Indonesia in general.
Example of know-how replication were witnessed in some villages where no farmer
groups were selected under LEDP.

In light of the project’s tight timeframe imposed by the mandatory closure of the Multi
Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and Nias on December 31, 2012, and in view of the local
governments’ low capacity, project design outsourced implementation to international
consultants (individual consultants in the first 7 months, followed by a firm from
February 2011 to closing) to ensure swift roll-out.

LEDP design employed community support grants to implement livelihood activities and
facilitate sustainable agricultural practices. However, the LEDP grant system departed
from the community grant model used in other Bank CDD operations. It did not focus on
group formation, community governance and administration and did not foster
competition for funds among competing groups. Rather, LEDP community grants were
rightly designed to increase knowledge, promote ownership and disseminate best practice
using the “farmer-field school approach? already successfully implemented in Nias under
the Oxfam livelihoods program. This approach was more appropriate for Nias given the
social dynamics, limited capacity, and abbreviated implementation period.

LEDP was designed to leverage social capital already available in Nias. It hired local
community facilitators and relied on existing farmer groups. The farmer groups were the
appropriate mechanism to impart improved agricultural technique and distribute tools,
high yield seeds and fertilizer efficiently and effectively to individual cultivators in a
village.

Assessment of risks: The PAD correctly rated the overall risk level after mitigation as
“substantial? and identified five risks: (i) the inadequate spread of benefits from group
knowledge due to social traditions and conflict among villagers; (ii) delays in
procurement due to limited experience of the Bank procurement guidelines and
procedure; (iii) the unavailability of technical support at the village level; (iv) the misuse
or sale of agricultural inputs by farmers; and (v) a high fiduciary risk environment. The
mitigation measures i.e., procurement safeguards, recruitment of community facilitators,



                                              7
audits, phased disbursement of the Community Support Grants, were appropriately
designed and largely effective. The PAD, however, failed to flag risks pertaining to lack
of fiscal sustainability, the perception that KPDT was crowding out other line agencies
(see Borrower performance Section 5.2 for details), and the risk of further natural
disasters. Nevertheless, LEDP was a very short-term pilot emergency recovery project
and addressing local government finance issues was beyond its scope.


2.2 Implementation

Project implementation was completed with only a six month extension and within
budget. The following were factors affecting the project’s implementation.

Performance of the Project Management Consultants (PMC): Bappenas was GoI’s
executing agency responsible for project planning and evaluation; KPDT was responsible
for implementation and budget execution including making annual budget applications to
MoF and managing the annual budget. Realizing its own limited capacity, KPDT
outsourced day-to-day activities to the PMC, including safeguards implementation and
monitoring and evaluation as well as assisting KPDT in procurement and financial
management. PMC’s international, national and community experts were based in Nias
which facilitated hands-on interface with farmer groups, effectively disseminated
agricultural best practices, and completed project implementation in slightly over two
years. The PMC successfully trained farmer groups, helped participating households
diversify their livelihoods, distributed farm inputs and trained district planning and
agriculture officers and met key performance indicator targets for such training.
Unfortunately collected baseline data was compiled and completed only in March 2012 –
too late to be utilized for decision-making at the Mid-Term Review held in September
2011.

Abbreviated project implementation period: The project’s two-year life span , was too
tight despite the simple design. This had been determined by the closing date of the
MDF in December 2012. While the training provided under component 1 commenced in
early 2011, the learning-by-doing modules under component 2 had to be postponed due
to delays in delivering rice seeds (completed only in October 2011), cocoa seedlings
(January 2012), fertilizer and agricultural tools (distributed in April 2012) and rubber
seedlings (delivery started in April 2012 and completed in December 2012.) These delays
further shortened the already brief period available for farmers to learn by doing and
resulted in insufficient time to implement and capture the full benefits of the improved
seed, fertilizers, tools, and best practice advice. This, in turn, further resulted in
inadequate time for monitoring and evaluation, and feeding learning back into subsequent
cropping seasons. The needs on the ground justify a successor intervention to capture
results, disseminate lessons, and allow for a longer M&E period. A larger infusion of
funds could also expand the number of participating farmer groups.

Budget delays: Internal processes to allocate Government budget caused implementation
bottlenecks. There were delays in authorizing the KPDT Ministry budget (DIPA), and



                                           8
further delays in DIPA revisions. Delayed budget allocation, in turn, delayed project
activities, including the release of the second tranche of the Community Support Grant to
farmer groups. The Bank helped the PMU coordinate with MOF to accelerate DIPA
releases and authorize revisions to ensure project activities were completed by closing but
the schedule was very tight.

Slow implementation of community support grants: The community support grants were
to be disbursed directly to farmer groups who were known to have low financial
management (FM) capacity. As a condition of disbursement of the block grants, the client
was to submit a draft sub-project operational manual, giving farmers clear guidance on
block grant eligibility of expenditures, disbursement mechanisms, cash management,
filing, internal controls, bookkeeping and reporting procedures. However, the final
clearance on the operational manuals was given only in mid-2011 and distribution of the
manuals and farmer training did not occur until September 2011. These delays ultimately
slowed the pace of implementation of the livelihood activities financed by the community
grants.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E for design, implementation and utilization are each rated moderately
satisfactory given late start-up. No provision was made for M&E activities after project
closure.

Design: The project design had verifiable outcome indicators linked to the development
objectives and attributable to project interventions. The LEDP design had the PMC
supporting the M&E function due to capacity shortfalls in KPDT.

Implementation: The collection of baseline data for M&E purposes was delayed. The
Bank team had repeatedly reminded the PMU to initiate data collection. The M&E
exercise was begun only in March 2012. The PMC and the PMU subsequently produced
regular M&E reports using primary field data. The M&E team consisted of 3 staff and
one manager. It produced a Baseline Report in March 2012, a Cocoa Seedlings
Distribution Report in April 2012, a Group Formation Report in August 2012, a Report
on Gender Checklist in September 2012 and a Report on Beneficiary Satisfaction in
October 2012.

The reports were integrated into the Semi-Annual Progress Reports. The reports provided
monitoring and evaluation data that included the status of distribution of the production
inputs by district, the implementation status of the first cycle of the community support
grant covering the amount of money transferred, the number of participants, types of
learning activities and demonstration plot activities.

Utilization: KPDT hired a consultant to conduct a M&E and impact assessment exercise
between July 2012 and October 2012. Two sub-districts were identified for survey
purposes in each of the five kabupaten/kota. A sample of four villages was identified in



                                            9
each of the sub-districts. A total of 35 villages were picked for the survey, 28 of which
focused on rubber, 4 on cocoa and 3 on rice. 231 male farmers and 198 female farmers
were interviewed. The study reported on the impact of LEDP on household income and
expenditure. It reviewed levels of satisfaction with the project. It derived data through
questionnaires. Trained enumerators interviewed beneficiaries and collected gender-
disaggregated primary data through surveys and focus group discussions. The final report
tabulated the results of the impact assessment survey in Bahasa Indonesia. The PMC
compiled and submitted the data gathered to KPDT. KPDT in turn developed a project
website that utilized the M&E data in its project progress reports, training modules and
leaflets.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards Compliance

Rating: Satisfactory.

LEDP triggered three safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment, Involuntary
Resettlement and Indigenous Peoples. The Environment and Social Safeguards
Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the Indigenous
People’s Planning Framework were accordingly produced and disclosed on April 22,
2010. The Grant Agreement mandated the incorporation of these frameworks as did the
project operational manual. All three policies were fully complied with satisfactorily.

Environment: LEDP was rated as a Category B project, with no major environmental
risks. It did not introduce species that were inconsistent with local flora and fauna. The
project did not provide chemical pesticides, nor did it include environmental conservation
areas. All project activities took place in a limited area where the environmental impact
was not significant. Generic environment issues pertaining to the rearing of livestock and
poultry, the use of fertilizer and organic pesticides were managed in a suitable manner.
Further, LEDP supported several activities that had a positive impact on the environment
such as the manufacture of organic farm products, natural fertilizer, bio-pesticides and
compost by farmer groups.

Safeguard instruments developed during project preparation included the Environment
and Social Safeguards Management Framework referred to above, the recruitment of an
Environmental Safeguards Specialist and the Environmental and Social Safeguards
Technical Guidelines. These instruments reduced or eliminated any potential negative
impact on project activities. The appointment of an environmental specialist who
developed the Technical Guidelines and provided safeguard advice had its advantages in
terms of early identification of potential environment impact and its mitigation. The
Technical Implementation Guidelines initially lacked directions on how to handle
fertilizer, manage waste and handle manure. The Bank team helped incorporate standard
operating procedures and a list of negative items into the Technical Guidelines. These
included the correct uses of fertilizer for cocoa, rice and rubber, and measures to prevent



                                            10
the pollution of drinking water sources from livestock manure. The 2011 Technical
Guidelines were revised in October 2012 and remained satisfactory to the Bank.

LEDP trained farmer groups in implementing the environmental and social safeguards
technical guidelines. The guidelines can now be used elsewhere in Nias given that the
awareness of managing environment and social safeguards issues is in place at the local
government and community levels.

Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition: The only land acquisition undertake was
for the five nurseries and no major social issues related to land acquisition arose. The
project reasonably handled a case were farmers were using public land allocated for one
nursery for seasonal cultivation. While all of them had major revenue sources from other
farm activities, the project permitted them to harvest their produce on this public land
prior to nursery construction. Furthermore these farmers were employed in the
construction of the new nursery. Showing a great deal of community support, private land
owners collectively leased and donated land for the other four nurseries, about 0.1
hectares each.

LEDP increased the awareness and practice of the five local governments and land
owners to document the land title status of the nurseries. All nurseries now possess
documented land title status. This provides a basis for sustainable operations and future
investment under the local budget.

Indigenous People: Satisfactory. The majority of the participated farmers groups were
classified as indigenous peoples. No case of discrimination against the farmers was
reported thanks to the full engagement of local authorities and the farmers groups.

Fiduciary Compliance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Financial Management: This is rated Moderately Satisfactory. In general, FM complied
with Bank procedures although there were some difficulties as already discussed in
Section 2.2 above.

The PMU submitted the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) on time. It submitted the Audit
Report on time, and it provided an unqualified (clean) opinion on LEDP’s financial
statement. The PMU maintained adequate supporting documents for project expenditure.
It followed up on audit findings and Bank mission recommendations. FM capacity
within the PMU, supplemented with consultant support, was largely sufficient. There
were no significant disbursement issues.


Although the latest audit report had an unqualified opinion on LEDP’s financial
statement, it noted some weaknesses. The report highlighted the uncollected penalty on
account of delays in the delivery of farm equipment and seedlings to beneficiaries. It



                                           11
flagged insufficient supporting documentation on consultant expenditure. The PMU
followed up on the audit findings and reported to the Bank all follow up actions including
the penalty fine and consultant payment deductions.

The PMU audited and verified the distribution of rice seed, cocoa/rubber seedlings,
fertilizer and farm equipment. It audited and verified the use of the Community Support
Grant released to the group accounts of farmers.

Procurement: This is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The procurement plan was fully
implemented and all services were acquired in accordance with Bank guidelines.
However, the procurement of rubber and cocoa seedlings, agricultural tools and fertilizer
was delayed, which impacted project implementation given the tight timeline. The main
delay was encountered in the procurement of rubber seedlings as some bidders provided
incorrect and/or incomplete information on previous contracts. This required seeking
clarification from the bidders’ previous clients during tender evaluation. All contracts
were eventually awarded. The bidding process for LEDP stretched from February 2011 to
December 2011, a time-line that was longer than expected. During contract
implementation, the Bank debarred a joint venture partner on account of irregularity, but
this did not impact implementation.

The Bank had requested the PMU to submit documentation for a sample of contracts in
order to undertake an ex-post review in 2011. The PMU did not provide the
documentation and the Bank did not complete the procurement post-review. However,
the Bank did undertake a physical inspection of deliverables under selected contracts
otherwise subject to a post review. There were no adverse findings during that exercise.

The Bank received a complaint with regards to a prior review contract related to the
procurement of rubber seedling root stock. This included allegations of unethical practice
by one KPDT staff. KPDT responded to the complaint and the General Inspector
concluded that the allegations were false.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Bank requested the KDPT to develop and exit strategy in the Mid-Term Review
mission of September 2011. KPDT is currently assessing its future plans for Nias that
may include elements of LEDP. The local authorities will be responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the nurseries; this provides a basis for sustainable operations and
future investment under the local budget.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation




                                           12
Relevance of the project’s objectives and design was satisfactory from conception
through closing in 2012. Farm incomes, which were already below national average, fell
further in the aftermath of the December 2004 tsunami and March 2005 earthquake and
had not recovered at appraisal in 2009 due to the island’s extreme isolation and low
capacity. LEDP, introduced five years afterwards, responded to continuing rural poverty
and unmet livelihood needs by empowering beneficiaries – livelihood groups and district
civil service staff – to improve their capacity to acquire the skills necessary to improve
farmer livelihoods and by supporting implementation of livelihood building activities
learned under the project sponsored training. There was strong demand for farmer
training throughout the project period, signaling the fact that the training offered was well
conceived.

The objectives of LEDP were towel aligned with the development priorities of Indonesia.
The livelihood and economic development of the disadvantaged outer islands retains a
political salience to national integration. This was also a pillar of the Bank’s engagement
(Core Engagement 2) outlined in the 2008-2012 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The
Bank strategy emphasized the need to strengthen the capacity of Indonesian institutions
to deliver improved infrastructure outcomes.

The LEDP objectives were also relevant to the Bank’s emphasis on strengthening disaster
risk management in Indonesia. The intent was to help Indonesia reduce its vulnerability
to natural disasters as outlined in the CPS (Core Engagement 5). Indonesia is situated on
the Pacific Ring of Fire, extends across three tectonic plates and is prone to natural
disasters. Any attempt at sustainable poverty alleviation needs to include disaster
preparedness. The CPS stressed that the Bank would deepen its relationship with the local
governments of Aceh and Nias in support of Government efforts to build natural disaster
resiliency.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project’s main PDO of facilitating post disaster economic recovery was very
ambitious given the project’s small financing envelope and its two-year implementation
period, which in turn, limited its geographical scope of engagement to only 2.5% of the
population of Nias. However, the key indicators point to the heart of LEDP’s objective
of building local government capacity to assist Nias farmers to develop and sustain
livelihood opportunities. Indeed, LEDP’s design inherently presented a strategy for Nias
to move from post-disaster response to more sustained economic recovery by assisting
participating farmers to improve crop yields, market their produce more effectively, and
diversity their incomes. These steps in turn would help alleviate chronic food insecurity
and build resilience to future shocks. The project was successful in building local




                                             13
government capacity, raising yields for rice, cocoa and rubber, and diversifying incomes
as discussed below.

Strengthened Government Capacity: LEDP improved the ability of local and provincial
KPDT staff to work with poor rural households by teaching staff the skills necessary to
transfer knowledge to farmers on topics such as group formation, social mapping, rice
plantation training, cocoa plantation training, rubber plantation training, post-harvest
handling and marketing, livelihood and food security, nursery management and fertilizer
handling and application. They also received pragmatic training on how to integrate
disaster resilience measures.

The associated key indicators were greatly exceeded for crop management and marketing
and met for tree crops and fertilizer handling and distribution; however there was a small
shortfall in training on program management and M&E as shown below:

                         Table 1: KPDT staff training outcomes

Government      PAD Target for      Crop            Tree crops nursery        Program
                 each training   management       management, fertilizer     management
                   (at right)    & marketing     handling and distribution    and M&E
North Nias                  5            25                      6                   3
Nias                        5            27                      6                   3
South Nias                  5            24                      6                   2
West Nias                   5            15                      4                   5
Gunung Sitoli               5            21                      6                   4
Provincial                  0            10                      0                   0
level staff
Total                    25             122                     28                  17

Building Farmer Groups’ Capacity: In order to improve farmers’ capacity to acquire
skills and know-how from KPDT staff, in the early phases of the project, LEDP provided
agricultural extension experts to train farmers on improved agricultural practices on their
respective crops. Rice farmers were trained in transplanting techniques, use of fertilizer,
care of paddy plants and post-harvest processing. Cocoa farmers were trained in the care
of cocoa pods, pest management, grafting techniques, appropriate pruning and use of
fertilizer. Rubber farmers were trained in appropriate tapping techniques, handling of
latex, use of fertilizer and care of seedlings. Farmers were also trained in group
organization, administration, bookkeeping, basic household financial management,
household economics and the operation of farm machinery. Separate training was
provided on tree crop smallholding improvement, poultry, horticulture, organic
composting and simple irrigation techniques.

In all, the project provided about 12 days of training in these areas to
some 3745 farmers, amounting to 44,940 farmer days, more than double the target of
20,600. Among female farmers, the PAD target of 7665 was also more than doubled at
16,704 by closing. The increase in participating farmers was the result of farmers from
outside the farmers groups wishing to participate in LEDP training, thus demonstrating
the high demand for and relevance of the training. Fully 100% of farmers expressed


                                               14
satisfaction with group and village selection processes, compared to the target of 75% in
the PAD, and this bodes well the sustained use of the methods introduced under LEDP.

The related key performance indicator was that at least 40% of livelihood groups would
adopt the technical knowledge, finance training and market access information provided
under LEDP to improve their livelihoods. In the end, 98 out of 100 livelihood groups
employed their knowledge. However, it must be noted that this data was consolidated
from community facilitator reports and incorporated in the final M&E report, and that the
methodology used to derive this statistic is unclear.

Increasing Rice, Cocoa and Rubber Production: LEDP provided 13,250 kilograms of
higher yield rice seed to the members of 15 farmer groups. It provided 241,000 cocoa
seedlings to 222 cocoa farmers organized into six farmer groups. It provided 705,139
rubber seedlings to 2,940 rubber farmers organized into 79 farmer groups. The project
provided 299,242 kilograms of Urea, 232,175 kilograms of SP-36 fertilizer, 158,867
kilograms of KC1 fertilizer and 87,500 kilograms of ZA fertilizer to all 100 farmer
groups to expose cultivators to its benefits. LEDP in addition provided agricultural tools
and implements to improve agricultural technology and returns. Farming equipment, such
as chain saws, tapping bowls, tapping knives, grass cutters, farming scissors, graft knives,
hand tractors and power threshers, was provided to all 100 farmer groups according to
their needs.

Rice: Only two cropping season could be undertaken in the life of the project. It is worth
noting that, during the first season, rice yields increased from an average of 2.5 tons per
hectare to 3.84 tons per hectare in the land cultivated by the 15 rice farmer groups. Then,
for the second season, the yield reached an average of 5.34 tons per hectare. This
compares very favorably to the PAD target of increasing rice yields to 3.3 tons per
hectare. This was achieved by using higher yield genetic strains, improving methods of
transplanting rice, using fertilizers, and by mechanizing threshing and winnowing. Thus
farmers achieved self-sufficiency and, in some cases, were able to generate some
revenues by selling their surpluses. Rice yields increased among the five local
governments as shown in the table below:

                Table 2: Rice Production Increase by Local Government

         Local       Baseline (from   1st season    % increase   2nd season   % increase
       Government        PAD)             t/ha         over         t/ha         over
                          t/ha                       baseline                  baseline
        North Nias             2.5      4.71          88.4%         N/A
          Nias                 2.5      N/A                          4.8        92%
        South Nias             2.5      3.08          23.2%         N/A
        West Nias                       N/A                         N/A
         Gunung               2.5       3.74          49.6%         5.87        134%
          Sitoli
        Combined              2.5       3.84          53.6%         5.34       113.4%
         Average




                                               15
Example case: The experience of one rice farmer group (15 farmers, of which 13 women
and five men) in Nias (Central) demonstrates LEDP’s impact. Previous yields were
already a respectable 3.5 tons per hectare in contrast to the 2.5 tons per hectare average in
Nias. Their yields increased further to 5.78 tons per hectare thanks to improved inputs
and training. Furthermore, the use of the hand tractor and thresher supplied by the project
saved time, enabling farmers to diversify into pig-rearing, sweet potato cultivation and
river sand mining. The Community Support Grant was used to purchase a water pump to
irrigate land for cultivation in the dry season. Diversifying into pig-rearing and sweet
potato cultivation increased food security and engaging in river sand-mining further
increased incomes.

Cocoa: The LEDP interventions led to an increase in cocoa yields among the six
participating cocoa farmer groups. The use of fertilizer, the grafting of higher yield
strains, regular pruning to ensure vigorous regrowth and more sun light, the protection of
the cocoa pod with plastic covering, improved sanitation and removal of fallen leaves to
prevent pests led to increased output (productivity increased from 10 to 13 grams per tree
per week). However, the full yield can only be assessed in two to four years when the
new cocoa seedlings reach maturity. A further increase in output is anticipated at that
point provided the appropriate farm techniques are retained.

Example case: One cocoa farmer group interviewed in South Nias indicated they had
harvested five kilograms of wet bean per week before LEDP whereas now they harvest
approximately 50 kilograms of wet bean. While this was not a rigorous measurement
validated by outside evaluators, it reflected the increase in output before the new higher
yield seedlings had even begun to bear fruit. The farmers had also diversified their
agricultural base to include chilies, corn and eggplant, the latter two being new ventures,
while LEDP introduced higher yield chilies. The cocoa farmers had also expanded
ongoing livestock-rearing and were exploring the possibility of venturing into soya bean
cultivation.

Rubber: A similar increase was witnessed in rubber productivity among the 79
participating rubber farmer groups (increased from 3.5 to 6.25 kg per 100 tree per week).
There had been no replanting since the 1950s until the post-disaster recovery effort. The
rubber was viewed locally as “jungle rubber? with low yields compared to neighboring
Sumatra. LEDP introduced improved tapping techniques, the grafting of new strains and
use of fertilizer, and eventually supplied 705,139 seedlings to sustain and improve
production after project closing.

Example case: A rubber farmer group in North Nias interviewed revealed that their
weekly latex collection had increased from 15 kilograms to 25 kilograms per 400 rubber
trees on account of the new tapping techniques. An increase in rubber output is
anticipated in five to seven years once the higher yield seedlings mature. Initial farmer
reports envisioned robust yields given the swift growth of seedlings. FAO had provided
them with seeds and fertilizer in 2006 but without hands-on training. While the yield
from the old rubber trees was one kilogram of latex from 25 trees, yields had risen to one
kilogram of latex from 10 to 15 of the newer FAO stock. Similar increases in yields are



                                             16
anticipated once the LEDP provided seedlings mature. The new tapping techniques
moreover should prolong the lives of their rubber trees.

LEDP encouraged rubber farmers to intercrop in order to diversify their income base by
training them to manufacture compost and organic pesticides, and to cultivate chilies,
corn and bananas, until then not undertaken by this particular farmer group.

Nurseries: The PAD included the establishment of 3 nurseries. This target was exceeded
and 5 nurseries were established (one in each of the 4 districts and the fifth in Gunung
Sitoli) to facilitate the local production of new high-yield seeds and good quality
seedlings. The intent was to make available such seeds and seedlings to local farmers.
The nurseries run by the district administration would ensure a continued post-project
partnership between the district administration and individual farmers. The nurseries
doubled as demonstration plots and seed centers. The nurseries would be financially self-
sustaining as the income from the sale of seeds would likely cover management costs

Promoting further livelihood diversification: Several examples of how LEDP encouraged
diversification are incorporated in the paragraphs above. These activities were carried out
with support provided by the project’s Community Support Grant which was an
innovative fund to help farmers pilot other revenue-generating farm activities and
broaden their livelihood base. Implementation of the grants in two tranches helped
farmers expand their outlook and invest in other productive activities like livestock
raising and vegetables production for market purposes. In addition, use of cocoa side
products such as the husk led to a new focus on the commercial manufacture of organic
fertilizer, biological pesticides and compost. This was an enduring legacy of LEDP that
linked the cash grant to knowledge transfer, provided capital for new economic activity
and was yet demand-driven. The farmer groups prioritized what activity they wanted to
engage in and received specific training accordingly. In this way, the project employed a
farmer field-school approach with “just-in-time? training. Annex 2 provides more
information about the various uses of the community support grants and their role in
sustaining livelihood diversification.

Other Achievements: In facilitating post disaster economic recovery, the project had two
other important contributions: (a) increasing food security; and (b) mitigating against
future disasters and increasing resilience as discussed below.

Disaster mitigation and resilience: The project contributed to enhancing food security,
increasing natural disaster mitigation and controlling pests, which together have had a
very beneficial impact on the project areas. To protect against landslides – an important
measure on a hilly island prone to earthquakes -- the project introduced terracing and
steps to ensure proper drainage. It also introduced the cultivation of bananas on the
slopes and hillsides to stabilize them. To mitigate potential flooding in irrigated rice
fields, the project demonstrated the importance of cleaning and maintaining irrigation
channels by removing soil and debris to facilitate the regular outflow of water. The
growing of vegetables on high ground ensured food security in the event of a tsunami.
The planting of cassava, yams and sweet potatoes guaranteed food security in the context



                                            17
of a future earthquake. Food diversification was a key disaster-preparedness response.
Timely removal of fallen leaves and pruning to ensure that sun light reaches the ground
were appropriate pest control mechanisms. LEDP published leaflets in an easy to
understand format to help farmers understand and remember these important mitigation
steps.


3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory.

Investment in training on good farm practices and the supply of high quality rice seeds,
cocoa and rubber seedlings, harvesting and composting tools, and farm machinery has
increased or is anticipated to increase farm productivity. Based on a preliminary analysis,
the financial rate of return of the project is about 43.7%. This is mainly attributed to the
high improvement in rubber and rice productivity. While this return is based on the direct
returns and improvement, targeting 100 farmer groups, it is expected that the benefit
would be much higher as a result of the anticipated scaling up in Nias and other parts of
Indonesia. Please see Annex 3 for a fuller analysis.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating is based on the combined assessment of the (i) strong
relevance of the PDO and design to the specific post-disaster ground context in rural
Nias; (ii) satisfactory achievement of the PDO; and (iii) the satisfactory financial rate of
return. The PDO of improving rural livelihood was appropriate given the still unmet post-
disaster needs in Nias, even if the goal of facilitating post-disaster recovery in Nias and
strengthening Government capacity was overly ambitious in context of the limited
envelop. The achievement of the PDO was significant in terms of the training delivered,
the increased rice yields, the improved outputs in cocoa and rubber, despite the fact that
the new crop is yet to mature, and the investment in agricultural diversification and
livestock rearing. Further, LEDP resulted in a 43.7% Financial Rate of Return.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Gender: LEDP design envisioned support for 50 mixed-gender farmer groups and 50
female-only farmer groups, with the objective of empowering women in an otherwise
fractured patriarchal society. However, the project ended up supporting 82 mixed gender
groups and just 18 women farmer groups. It largely relied on farmer groups established
under earlier NGO-financed pilots--there were only 20 women’s groups in existence.



                                            18
LEDP did not create new women’s groups, a shortcoming. However, women's
participation in the mixed gender groups was significant, not just as members but as
wives who represented their farmer husbands in training. The rice farmer groups in
particular had active women's participation.

Many women improved their economic profile as cultivators of rice. With mechanization,
the time spent on winnowing and threshing, activities traditionally delegated to women,
was reduced. This freed them to expand their economic base to include livestock rearing,
vegetable gardening and the manufacture of local fertilizer. Women led several of the
farmer groups, albeit at times in their capacity as the wives of locally influential men.

The project created a platform for improved women’s participation in decision-making
and economic activity. Women were in fact more active than men in attending training
and in implementing the knowledge they had obtained such as initiating seasonal/cash
crops and small food-based manufacture that generated income for the family4. The M&E
data collected was gender disaggregated.

Inclusion: LEDP had spin-off effects on farmers who were not members of the farmer
groups. While only 3,744 farmers were formally enrolled in LEDP, 7,675 benefited from
training in the rubber and cocoa sectors alone, and received seedlings. This said, there
were reports of resentment from agricultural households not included in LEDP. (One
village had 100 farmer households but only 19 were members of the farmer group.) This
led to resentment by others, some of whom were subsequently included to informally join
the training modules and receive seeds. Many farmer groups requested a Government
financed continuation of LEDP to reach more cultivators.

Social Development: LEDP enhanced social cohesion within the farmer groups. Farmers
shared new agricultural knowledge and equipment. Some farmers not part of the project
benefitted from the information on new farming practices and technology that they had
gained from neighboring farmers who participated in LEDP

Farmer households faced a temporary loss of income as they cleared the land awaiting the
arrival of seedlings and the plants maturing. Farmers were cognizant that they would
forgo income while awaiting the eventual rubber and cocoa harvest. They anticipated that
the returns of the new plants would be higher. LEDP provided community support block-
grants to farmer groups to initiate other agriculture-related activities such as the
manufacture of compost, organic fertilizer, edible products, etc., and cultivation of cash
crops to generate revenue.

      (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As discussed in Section 3.2, LEDP provided on-the-job training to KPDT staff,
provincial and local governments and members of the farmer groups. The project trained


4
    PMC Final Report, November, 2012



                                           19
district agriculture and planning officials. KPDT built up its procurement and planning
capacity and its interface with other line agencies. KPDT gained valuable experience
running the project be it the preparation of bid documents, undertaking a monitoring
exercise or implementing the audit observations. These experiences would serve it in
good stead if it replicates similar programs elsewhere. It published the training modules
in an easy to understand format in the local language with illustrations in order to target a
semi-literate segment of society. These training manuals can now be used elsewhere in
Indonesia once translated.

Fourty of the 42 community facilitators recruited and trained were Nias residents and will
therefore be able to provide institutional memory. It would be ideal if they were absorbed
into the district administration. The LEDP institutional memory likewise remains
embedded in the 100 farmer groups and 42 community facilitators. The implementation
mechanism was intended to obtain the engagement of various stakeholders and the buy-in
of provincial and local authorities, even if not always successful.

The project, for instance, had less success in strengthening district institutions. Despite
increases in agricultural outputs, the diversification of livelihoods and the training of
KPDT and district officials, the local government machinery continued to face human
resource and financial constraints that were beyond the scope of an US$ 8.2 million
project. Several district staff lacked fuel for their motorcycles to follow up with farmer
groups. Such constraints will likely impede the ability of the participating local
governments to sustain the agricultural extension services initiated under LEDP.

Further, KPDT assumed the lead role in project implementation, crowding out the district
administration and line agencies such as the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Public Works. While KPDT and its PMC delivered project outputs, the buy-in of the
districts was not uniform. The District Regent or Bupati at times criticized LEDP on this
score. While LEDP may have helped address rural income poverty on a pilot basis, its
sustainability is at risk given the departure of the PMC and the lack of financial means by
the districts to continue its activities unless KPDT were to remain engaged.

On a positive note, LEDP established nurseries to facilitate the local production of new
high-yield seeds. The intent was to make available such seeds and seedlings to local
farmers. The nurseries now run by the district administration would ensure a continued
post-project partnership between the district administration and individual farmers. The
nurseries doubled as demonstration plots and seed centers. The nurseries would be
financially self-sustaining as the income from the sale of seeds would likely cover
management costs. If managed as envisaged in the project design and the training
provided under LEDP is leveraged appropriately, the nurseries would demonstrate a
sustainable operating model in the years to come.

   (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The new cocoa seedlings have not begun to yield outputs. However, the improved
productivity of the existent stock and the grafted crops has encouraged some farmers to



                                             20
strategize how to secure start-up capital for the purchase of cocoa beans from
neighboring farmers and scale-up marketing. They have begun to think in terms of value
addition in order to obtain improved returns. While these are incipient steps, they reflect a
new confidence to plan ahead given initial gains under LEDP5.


The increase in income was then invested in the primary, secondary and tertiary
education of their children, in home improvement and in household expenses. Funds were
also saved in local church credit societies. One women’s group used its revenue as
collateral to secure a loan for investment in farming productive activities.

The most significant impact however was an incipient green revolution and a pilot
introduction of a more scientific agriculture in an otherwise isolated, fragile and low
capacity island context. LEDP helped introduce the concept of crop husbandry and a
small holder plantation to a remote island hitherto characterized by very weak extension
services.

There was a 27.85% mortality rate for new rubber seedlings because of poor
maintenance6. About 4% of the cocoa seedlings died before planting due to improper
handling. The supplier replaced the seedlings at its expense. It attributed the relatively
higher mortality rate for rubber and cocoa seedlings to the excessive use of fertilizer. This
led to more emphasis being placed on training in the area of fertilizer application and
seedling handling.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

The overall risk to sustained development outcome is rated substantial given the absence
of a follow-on project, local budget shortfalls and inadequate local capacity.

LEDP was designed to help Government work with poor rural households in Nias to
develop their livelihood opportunities. This two year operation was extended by six
months which remained a tight time-line given the two years it took for preparation. The
project closing date was determined by the Multi-Donor Fund's end date.


5
    Interview with cocoa farmer group in Gunung Sitoli

6
    Aide Memoire September 2012



                                                     21
Continued Fiscal Constraints: This risk is rated Substantial. A fragile low capacity
environment and tight time-line necessitated the outsourcing of project implementation to
the PMC. However, the PMC’s role ended with project closure. LEDP’s mandate did not
cover the budgetary constraints at the district level. The Dinas Pertanian staff lack
resources to sustain the extension services. The fiscal constraints means that support to
farmers may end with the departure of the PMC. This poses a risk to the sustainability of
the development outcomes achieved.

Fiscal decentralization was beyond the scope of LEDP whose goals were more immediate
and modest i.e. a post-disaster improvement in rural livelihoods. Improved livelihood, not
local government finance, was the end. This said, the Bank team did push for an
increased Government budgetary allocation for Nias to equal the rest of North Sumatra in
its discussions with the Governor of the province.

The risk to operational sustainability is substantial. KPDT will need to continue LEDP
activities with Government funds until such time that local government is able to assume
responsibilities. In fact, KPDT, in its plans, has adopted the scaling up of LEDP but the
realization of such plan will face many challenges given the limitations in the resources
(human and financial)

Fiduciary Risks: This risk is rated Moderate. The mitigation measures incorporated in
project design helped address much of the procurement, fiduciary and social risks. An
international procurement consultant experienced in Bank procedure was recruited. A
procurement firm financed with bilateral donor funds supported KPDT. There were
regular audits. FM training was provided to community facilitators and project staff.
Project implementation itself was outsourced. Nevertheless, procurement bottlenecks
delayed the distribution of seedlings and equipment. Similar delays were witnessed in the
finalization of a training plan, the seed distribution plan and the cash grant operational
manual. While such delays were to be expected in a fragile ground context, the impact on
LEDP necessitated a project extension. The initial time-line was unrealistic. However, as
appropriate mitigation measures had been introduced, the fiduciary risk to development
outcome is rated moderate.

Natural disasters and climate change: This risk is rated Substantial. Nias is prone to
tsunamis, earthquakes and floods. Future natural disasters pose a substantial risk to
development outcome. However, the training on agricultural best practice provided and
the social capital created under LEDP will stand the beneficiaries in good stead in any
future post-disaster recovery. Unknown climate change impacts, such as drought can also
pose risks to crops and trees. The risk is therefore rated substantial

Sustainability of Farmer Groups: The risk is rated Moderate. The farmer groups were
created under an earlier Oxfam pilot. LEDP availed of this already tested mechanism.
The farmer groups were a mean to reach the individual cultivator, not an end in
themselves. Nonetheless, these groups are likely to remain a vehicle for a community-
level development partnership.



                                           22
Turn-over among local government staff: The risk is rated Moderate. Administration in
Indonesia is now decentralized and staff turn-over to other provinces is less likely as the
staff is mapped to the province. Moreover, the training received is likely to stand
Indonesia in good stead any way even if the officials were to move elsewhere.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The PAD captured the livelihood constraints and low yield agriculture in Nias. The
project design was kept simple and implementation outsourced to management
consultants. Space was provided to the provincial and district administration in the
steering committee. The emphasis on small holder agriculture was appropriate given the
lack of economies of scale, environment constraints and transport bottlenecks for large
scale plantations. The task team had done its due diligence.

Project preparation took two years. The initial plan was to combine support for rural
roads, bridges and agricultural livelihoods in a single operation, but that complex project
design led to delays. The Bank recommended that the project be split into an ILO-
supported RACB and a Bank-supported LEDP. This decision helped simplify the latter
and jump-started preparation momentum. Both projects continued to have the same
steering committee at the center and province, and operated in the same geographic areas.
This reinforced a mutual synergy and complementarity without over burdening either
project.

The team had appropriately reviewed the safeguards and fiduciary aspects of the project
and had clearly enumerated the potential risks that the project was likely to face.

The project legal covenants were also kept simple and met without burdening the startup
of the project. In accounting for the delays that might be encountered in the selection of
the PMC, the project team assisted KPDT to start the selection process six months before
negotiations of the grant agreement. Moreover, the task team followed closely with the
KPDT and Bappenas the development of the project operation manual and the formation
of the Project Steering Committee in an attempt to expedite project launch.

During Appraisal, the project benefitted from the existing community groups that were
established under previous community development projects. These farmer groups
worked with international NGOs before which made them easy to socialize under LEDP.
Moreover, the readily established groups (majority) enabled quick start of the project.




                                            23
The Groups were also mapped to communities within RACAB project area which
ensures easy access and mobilization of goods to and from the targeted LEDP groups.
.

Around US$ 420,000 from the MDF budget was spent on the project preparation

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank fielded four supervision missions during project implementation i.e. May 2011,
September 2011, May 2012 and September 2012. The mid-term review was in September
2011. The team undertook due diligence to ensure that LEDP implementation complied
with the Bank’s fiduciary, procurement and safeguard policies.

The Aide Memoires provided an informative account of progress every six months, what
needed to be addressed and implementation advice. It flagged delays in procurement and
the need to finalize the training plan, the seed distribution plan, the CSG operational
manual and collection of baseline data for monitoring purposes. It noted the delays in the
acquisition of land for the five nurseries and the initial communication bottlenecks
between the PMU and PMC, the PMU and local government, the PMU and farmers. It
recorded the irregular attendance at the provincial level steering committee.

The pro-activeness of Bank supervision despite implementation difficulties is noted. The
Bank worked with the PMU to address weaknesses in reporting and financial
management. It helped the PMU liaise with the MoF to accelerate budget effectiveness. It
helped the PMC develop basic book keeping practices for Farmer Groups. The Bank
undertook a physical inspection of deliverables under selected contracts. It helped the
PMU improve guidelines on how to handle fertilizer, manage waste and handle manure.
In short, it provided increased attention to implementation quality. The PMU meanwhile
followed-up on Bank guidance on financial management and environment. It initiated the
M&E activity albeit late given Bank follow-up.

The team undertook supervision missions in a constructive manner. Mission teams
included the financial management, procurement, environment, social development,
agriculture and other experts needed to discuss relevant supervision topics. The
supervision missions took place twice a year. This was supplemented by frequent
meetings with KPDT in Jakarta. Comments received from PMU, KPDT, MoF and
Bappenas reflected a respectful work relationship and a flexible approach by Bank staff.
Aide Memoires, Management Letters, ISRs and other project communication were
completed in a timely manner with clear references to needed actions covering all project
components, safeguards and fiduciary issues.

US$ 315,000 from the MDF supervision budget was spent on supervision over the project
implementation period.




                                           24
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's overall performance rating is based on satisfactory ratings for both quality at
entry and supervision.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Performance of GoI was satisfactory given the sustained commitment to the project
development objective. The agencies (KPDT, Bappenas, MoF and North Sumatra
Provincial Government) were effective in taking decisive action with regard to the Bank
recommendations on implementation activities, including allocating ministry budget
resources (DIPA) and preparing sufficient annual budget allocations. This was despite the
initial delay in start-up. There were delays in procurement and the delivery of seeds and
agricultural tools. KPDT eventually treated LEDP with urgency and priority due to the
tight implementation time-line. KPDT played an important role in keeping all players
represented in the PSC and the LSC engaged in the project. KPDT management
participated in all supervision missions and facilitated the implementation of all
recommendations. More could have been done however to ensure greater participation of
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Public Works in routine project
implementation. The project was steered by KPDT. It set the policy and worked with the
MoF to allocate the budget. While the budgetary allocations were sufficient, delays in its
authorization contributed to delays discussed in Section 2.4.

During project preparation, Government had designed and established the
implementation mechanisms and fiduciary safeguards related to procurement,
disbursement and financial management. The PSC, the Local Steering Committee (LSC),
the PMU, and the PSC were established and staffed by grant negotiations. The FM
specialist was on board before project effectiveness. The PMU oversaw project
implementation with the support of the PMC. In anticipation of the lengthy process of
consultant selection, KPDT initiated the tender process during project preparation. This
led to the selection of the PMC consultant firm within four months of project approval.

BRR was closed in 2009. KPDT assumed responsibilities for continued post-disaster
activity at that point given its mandate for disadvantaged areas. As the local government
reforms of 1999 had decentralized policy implementation, KPDT was expected to work
closely with the districts.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                            25
Performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. The PMU at KPDT
coordinated all activities and supported the PMC in communicating with farmer groups
and the local authorities of Nias.

The PMU factored in the initial delay in procurement of goods and appointed a specialist
with suitable procurement experience to expedite the process. The PMC performance was
exemplary although more could have been done to ensure greater buy-in from the district
authorities.

The legal covenants and fiduciary and safeguards policies were ,significantly, in
compliance. The PMU failed to submit documentation for a sample of contracts for an
ex-post procurement review in 2011.

The Community Facilitators had earned the trust of Farmer Groups, including women
farmers, and linked-up with the local government agricultural extension officers. The role
of the Community Facilitators was crucial to the roll out of implementation. Almost all
were from Nias itself. They facilitated the training modules in a timely manner. While the
release of funds for the Community Support Grant was delayed, once received it helped
support livelihood diversification activities. The Community Facilitators helped Farmer
Groups prioritize and define their training needs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Project implementation by the Government of Indonesia and the Implementing Agency
KPDT is rated satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

The lessons from this project are many but the ICR will focus on the main three.

Project life and impact assessment: Two-year duration is too tight to assess the project
outcomes. The project implementation duration was too short to assess the outcomes and
sustainability of the LEDP intervention. A continuous monitoring of the impact and
outcome is needed to be in place for many years to assess the success of the new rubber
and cocoa crop, the proper management of the nurseries and the sustainability of the
enhanced agricultural practice. Likewise the continuation of good practice vis-à-vis
environment and social safeguards at the farmer group and local government level
remains to be seen.

The LEDP implementation time line had been determined by the closing date of the
MDF. It would be useful in future to provide space at the mid-term review for a
provisional IDA envelops to co-finance any innovative pilot. The IDA mechanism is




                                           26
better suited for project extension when the needs on the ground justify that and an
additional financing to support successful initiatives, flexibility that trust funds lack.

Implementation arrangements in a low capacity environment: KPDT had outsourced
project implementation to the PMC. Nias had a fragile post-disaster environment and
inadequate local capacity. Implementation by outside consultants ensured the swift roll-
out of the project in the 22 months that the LEDP was operational. LEDP activities
should have, under ideal circumstances, been implemented by the districts as part of their
mandate of providing agricultural extension services. However, the districts could not
have addressed the post-disaster needs in the tight time-line given their capacity and
resource constraints Outsourcing implementation was inevitable in such a low capacity
environment.

Community Support Grants: Despite the low capacity of the farmer groups, the block
grants proved to be successful as they responded to the community needs and could
finance capacity building activities besides the learning by doing. Proposals like
composting, biological pesticides, pigs and hens’ raising and vegetable planting were
genuine and proved to be economically successful. They resulted in diversifying the
livelihoods options and improved Nias resilience in facing disasters and capacity to
achieve food security.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

The government of Indonesia was very satisfied with the project’s outcomes. The ICR
report prepared by the implementing agency (KPDT) reflects great deal of satisfaction
and pride with the project outcomes, (Annex 7). The Bank appreciates the inputs and
support of the MDF in preparing the ICR.

KPDT is also very satisfied with the level of support they received from the Bank during
the project preparation, implementation and in particular facilitation of procurement. The
Bank concurs with the KPDT future plans for further development of Nias economy and
livelihoods through (i) building the farmers capacity in producing local vegetables and
fruits to the self-sufficiency level; (ii) allocation of budget to the local authorities to
pursue the project successes; (iii) maintaining and management of the nurseries.

KPDT also highlighted very important lessons learned including the use of local expertise
and the strong engagement of the local community and local authorities in priority
identification and close cooperation with all players including funding agencies and
governmental agencies., and does not have any comments about issues raised by the
MDF.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors




                                            27
The Multi-Donor Fund (MDF) was also generally positive about the outcomes of the
project (see Annex 8 for comments provided by the MDF Secretariat). The Bank
appreciates the inputs and support of the MDF in preparing the ICR, and concurs with the
MDF about the sustainability risk for the LEDP, especially in terms of local governments’
capacity to continue providing support to Nias’ farmers beyond the project’s end.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                          28
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                       Appraisal
                                                       millions)

              Total Baseline Cost         8.20              7.87          95.98
Livelihood Groups and
Institutional Empowerment
                                          1.95              1.95           100
Agricultural and Other Livelihoods
                                          4.60              4.27          92.83
Improvement
Management, Monitoring and
                                          1.65              1.65           100
Evaluation

Physical Contingencies
                                          0.00              0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies
                                          0.00              0.00          0.00
             Total Project Costs          8.20              7.87
Project Preparation Costs                 0.00              0.00            -
                                          0.00              0.00            -
     Total Financing Required             8.20              7.87          95.98


(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
Trust Funds                             Grant        8.20        7.87       95.98




                                           29
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

SUMMARY OF OUTPUTS
The project was designed with three components and several sub components to respond
to the most needs of livelihood improvement of people in Nias Islands as summarized
below together with the respective outputs.

  Components/ sub
                                       Planned Outputs                            Actual Outputs
    components
Component 1:                up to 50 mixed gender groups trained on    83 mixed gender groups trained on
Livelihood Groups           various livelihood opportunities           various livelihood opportunities
and Institutional
Empowerment
                            Up to 50 Women’s Livelihoods Groups        17 Women’s Livelihoods Groups
                            trained on a wider livelihood              trained
                            opportunities
                            At least 5 district Government             140 district staff trained and 13
                            Agriculture Services staff in each         Provincial staff trained on various
                            district are trained                       agricultural technology and nursery
                                                                       management; 28 Field extension
                                                                       workers trained on farmer
                                                                       organization
Component 2:
Agricultural and
Other Livelihoods
Improvement
Sub-component 1.            Provision of Community Block Grant to      100 community groups received one
Implementation of           100 Community groups @ USD 2500            cycle grant amounting USD 2500
Agriculture and                                                        each, and 35 good performing groups
Women’s Livelihoods                                                    received the second cycle of grant
Group Activities                                                       amounting USD 2500 each.
                            Provision of agricultural inputs to 100    Distribution of all agricultural inputs
                            community groups including rice seeds;     to all 100 groups was completed by
                            rubber and cocoa seedlings; fertilizers;   December 2012
                            agricultural tools and hand tractors
Sub-component 2.            Establishment of nursery in 3 districts    5 nurseries established- each nursery
Support to Local                                                       in each district.
Government
Agriculture Services
Sub-component 3.            Not specify                                Baseline survey, benchmark
Special studies,                                                       monitoring surveys and evaluation,
training activities, etc.                                              gender in proposed project areas
                                                                       completed on time
Component 3:                Program Management Unit (PMU) and          PSC established , Local Steering
Management,                 Program Steering Committees (PSCs)         Committee established, Project
Monitoring and              established.                               management team established, staff
Evaluation                                                             trained and using systems and
                                                                       procedures aligned with World Bank
                                                                       procurement and safeguards
                                                                       methodologies




                                                      30
     Components/ sub
                                  Planned Outputs                           Actual Outputs
       components
                       Project Management Consultant (PMC)        Mobilization of core consultants was
                       recruited with core expertise supporting   completed as indicated in the
                       i) monitoring and evaluation; ii)          contract; 42 field facilitators
                       financial management; iii) safeguards;     recruited by PMC; PMC assisted
                       iv) quality assurance; v) procurement;     PMU on preparing Annual and final
                       vi) adherence to the governance and        audit, procurement and financial
                       accountability framework; and vii)         management reports to be available
                       program reporting                          on time


I.        DETAILS OF COMPONENT AND SUB COMPONENT OUTPUTS

Component 1: Livelihood Groups and Institutional Empowerment:
This component aims to empower beneficiaries and improve their capacity to acquire the
technical, social, organizational, financial, management and marketing skills for
livelihood development activities. The scope of this component includes technical
training and group facilitation, including : (i) Training for Agriculture Livelihoods
Groups: in social, technical, marketing, and financial aspects of livelihood development ;
(ii) Training for Women’s Livelihoods Groups: to develop a wider range of livelihood
opportunities in addition to primary production (retail, processing, marketing, business
skills transfer) to enhance their incomes; (iii) Training and Equipment for Local
Government Agriculture Services staff will be provided to facilitate further involvement
for activities beyond the project life.
This component was completed with unexpected outputs which are more than the
planned outputs : (i) 100 community groups established and each district has released a
Bupati Decree to acknowledge of the groups; (ii) all groups trained on good agricultural
practices of planting and maintaining cocoa, rubber, rice and on other livelihood
activities; (iii) 140 district staff and 13 provincial staff of North Sumatera (planning staff)
trained in program management associated with technical skills in tree crops (cacao and
rubber) and nursery management; (iv) 28 Field Extension workers and district
agricultural staff trained on farmer organization; (v) 20 district staff and 6 Bappeda staff
of North Sumatera Province trained in Agro-pastoral Development Training for Food
Security and Energy self-sufficiency; (vi) 15 district staff and 1 Bappeda Sumut staff
trained in agricultural marketing; (vii) 28 district staff trained in Nursery management

Component 2: Agricultural and Other Livelihoods Improvement:
This component aims to support the implementation of program activities under
Component 1 by utilizing the Community Support Grant, technical support services and
agriculture production inputs.

Sub-component 1: Implementation of Agriculture and Women’s Livelihoods Group
Activities




                                                 31
This sub-component will implement activities identified and proposed by (i.) around 50
agriculture livelihoods groups and (ii.) around 50 women’s livelihoods groups – each
group is composed of roughly 40 households by providing Community Support Grants.
The outputs of this sub component are adjusted to the local conditions in which only 17
women groups and 83 mixed groups participating in the project. The low number of
participating women groups is due to the fact that many women prefer to join mix groups.
Among 100 groups as community grant recipients, 35 of which is categorized as good
performing groups using a set of criteria, and eligible for the second round of community
grants, USD 2500 / group. Using the community grants, the groups have demonstrated
good capacity building in good practices to produce compost, organic pesticides,
vegetables and breeding hens and pigs (Attachment 1 illustrates activities and training
sponsored by the grants).

Sub-component 2: Support to Local Government Agriculture Services

This sub-component will strengthen agricultural support services from the District
Government to: (i) develop improved rice food security by providing support to farmer
groups with foundation seed of high-yield varieties and fertilizer inputs; (ii) develop
skills in nursery management for tree crops. The project will establish tree crops nurseries
managed by District government. The nurseries will introduce better yielding varieties of
rubber and cocoa trees, more appropriate for Nias; and (iii) improve agriculture
diversification to develop opportunities to support livestock and crop activities. Support
would also be provided to Dinas staff to provide information on sources of advice and
services outside government.

The output of this sub component has been achieved as follows : (i) 79 rubber groups
have received rubber producer seedlings, fertilizers and agricultural tools; 6 cocoa
producer groups have received cocoa seedlings fertilizers and agricultural tools; and 15
rice producer groups have received rice seeds, fertilizers and agricultural tools. With this
technology and proper farm management as well as production inputs, rice farmers are
able to improve their yields to reach 3.3 ton/ ha in average, compared to 2.2 ton/ha prior
to the project implementation.

Five nurseries each in Nias, South Nias, North Nias, West Nias districts and one
municipality have been constructed. All nurseries had rubber and cocoa seedlings planted.

Sub-component 3: Special studies, training activities, etc.

The sub component will address as-hoc program needs for activities supporting
livelihoods and not addressed through other components arising during program
implementation.

This sub component has provided training to rubber producer groups on pest management
(Thricoderma). The training was conducted in Rubber Research Center in North
Sumatera.




                                            32
Component 3: Management, Monitoring and Evaluation:

This component aims to develop management and technical capacity for the
implementation of livelihoods programs in Nias. A consultant team will provide the
necessary project implementation and management as well as livelihood supports.

The output of this component includes:

      Establishment of a PMU, recruitment of individual consultants comprising Project
       Management Specialist, Financial Management Specialist, and Procurement
       Specialist, and contracting a multidisciplinary PMC comprising various
       management specialist and technical experts. 42 field facilitators were also
       recruited.

      Establishment of the Local Steering Committee through a Governor Decree of
       North Sumatera Province in November 2010 comprising of the Head of Bappeda
       of North Sumatera Province as the chair person; and members consist of
       representatives from Bappeda, Agriculture Agency of North Sumatera and of the
       five participating district and municipality in Nias.

      Collection and compilation of monitoring and evaluation data in the progress
       report including the status of distribution of the production inputs by districts and
       city, the implementation status of the first cycle of the community support grant
       covering the amount of money transferred, the number of participants, types of
       learning activities and demonstration plot activities.




                                            33
                         Attachment 1: Summary of Training sponsored by the Community Support Grants

Training sponsored by the Community Support Grants Funding for the Farmer's Groups
                                                    First Grant                                        Reward Grant
                                    Tranche 1        Tranche 2         TOTAL             Tranche 1        Tranche 2         TOTAL
   Community Support Grant        Total            Total            Total              Total            Total            Total
         Activity                 No. of           No. of           No. of             No. of           No. of           No. of
                                             %                %              %                    %                %              %
                                 Farmers'         Farmers'         Farmers'           Farmers'         Farmers'         Farmers'
                                 Groups           Groups           Groups             Groups           Groups           Groups
Tree Crop Small holdings
(Rubber and Cocoa)                 17     14.17      12     9.09         29   11.51      3      8.11      3      8.57      6     8.33
Livestock Rearing                  21      17.5      20    15.15         41   16.27     11     29.73     11     31.43     22    30.56
Farming and Horticulture           42       35       44    33.33         86   34.13      6     16.22      5     14.29     11    15.28
Activities
Organic  Composting Activities     39      32.5      55    41.67         94    37.3     17     45.95     16     45.71     33    45.83
Simple Irrigation Activities        1      0.83       1     0.76          2    0.79      0        -       0        -       0       -
               Total              120      100      132     100         252    100      37      100      35      100      72     100

Training sponsored by Community Support Grants Funding for the Mixed Groups
                                                    First Grant                                        Reward Grant
                                    Tranche 1        Tranche 2         TOTAL             Tranche 1        Tranche 2         TOTAL
   Community Support Grant        Total            Total            Total              Total            Total            Total
         Activity                 No. of           No. of           No. of             No. of           No. of           No. of
                                             %                %              %                    %                %              %
                                 Farmers'         Farmers'         Farmers'           Farmers'         Farmers'         Farmers'
                                 Groups           Groups           Groups             Groups           Groups           Groups
Tree Crop Small holdings
(Rubber and Cocoa)                 17     16.83      11    10.68         28   13.73      3     10.71      1      3.57      4     7.14
Livestock Rearing                   8      7.92       8     7.77         16    7.84      6     21.43      6     21.43     12    21.43
Farming and Horticulture           36     35.64      40    38.83         76   37.25      6     21.43      5     17.86     11    19.64
Activities
Organic Composting Activities      39     38.61      43    41.75         82    40.2     13     46.43     16     57.14     29    51.79
Simple Irrigation Activities        1      0.99       1     0.97          2    0.98      0       -        0        -       0       -
               Total              101      100      103     100         204    100      28      100      28      100      56     100




                                                                   34
Training sponsored by Community Support Grants Funding for the Women Groups
                                                   First Grant                                       Reward Grant
                                   Tranche 1        Tranche 2         TOTAL            Tranche 1        Tranche 2         TOTAL
   Community Support Grant       Total            Total            Total             Total            Total            Total
         Activity                No. of           No. of           No. of            No. of           No. of           No. of
                                            %                %              %                   %                %              %
                                Farmers'         Farmers'         Farmers'          Farmers'         Farmers'         Farmers'
                                Groups           Groups           Groups            Groups           Groups           Groups
Tree Crop Small holdings
(Rubber and Cocoa)                 1      5.26      1      3.45         2    4.17      0       -       0        -        0      -
Livestock Rearing                 13     68.42     12     41.38        25   52.08      5     71.43     3      42.86      8    57.14
Farming and Horticulture           4     21.05      4     13.79         8   16.67      0       -       0        -        0      -
Activities
Organic Composting Activities      1      5.26     12     41.38        13   27.08      2     28.57     4      57.14      6    42.86
Simple Irrigation Activities       0        -       0        -          0      -       0       -       0        -        0      -
               Total              19      100      29      100         48    100       7      100      7       100      14     100




                                                                  35
Attachment 2: Selected pictures illustrating the Activities of LEDP




                   First Rice season Harvesting                                  Rice milling
Women Farmer group harvesting the first season rice and are given hand-on training using the rice mill financed under
the LEDP.




Rubber seedlings being planted by one of the farmer          Cocoa Seedlings received by one of the farmer groups
groups.




                                                        36
Women were empowered and most cases represented their community groups.




One of the five newly established Nurseries with new       High quality rubber seedlings provided under
rubber seedlings already planted to maintain good          the LEDP. The project provided around
quality clones                                             705,000 grafted good quality seedlings.




Compost produced by a farmer group and financed          Biological pesticide produced by a farmer group
from the community support grants.                       and financed from the community support grants.




                                                    37
                    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project is focusing on the capacity building, training and program management.
However, the knowledge gained and the application of proper techniques in farming the
three major strategic crops, namely- rice, cocoa and rubber seems to well justify the
investment (around US$ 8.0 million). The financial analysis was conducted to
demonstrate the potential viability of the project. The following assumptions were
considered:

   1. The analysis is based on 20 years projection. For presentation, only data for the
      first ten years are illustrated in Table 1. However, the calculations are based on 20
      years projections. Respective data is repeated for the year 11 to 20.
   2. The productivity is assumed to be linked to the existing impacted farming areas
      and the new cocoa and rubber seedlings. This is a very conservative assumption
      as it is expected that the know-how acquired would be applied elsewhere and by
      other farmers not part of the 100 farmer groups.
   3. Productivity improvement for rice, rubber and cocoa are those averaged from the
      involved groups but not related to the groups with best practice (to be in the
      conservative side)
   4. Productivity of the new cocoa and rubber seedlings are assumed to be in full at
      the age of 5 and 7 years respectively.
   5. Costs of fertilizers and machinery are assumed as the costs associated with the
      procurement of these inputs for the entire project.
   6. The labor cost was assumed at the high side of $5/day and a 2 full time workers
      serves each farmer.

Based on the assumptions and as illustrated in Table 1 below, the project showed an
internal rate of return of 43.7%. This is a very conservative rate of return that includes
only the direct financial benefits from rice, cocoa and rubber for the participated farmers
groups. The gains from increasing the scope of the application of knowledge acquired
would lead to a much higher rate of return. This entails that the project is highly feasible
and the GoI should pursue its scaling up and sustaining the project outcomes.




                                            38
Table 1. Financial analysis and cash flows related to LEDP project. The projection is for 20 years. Data is presented for years 1 to 10
but repeated for years 11 to 20. Analysis shows that IRR is 43.73%
Financial Analysis of Nias LEDP Project
                                                                                                                                                                                           Year
                                             Item                                               Units                        1             2             3             4             5             6             7             8             9            10
                                                                                                                         2012            2013          2014          2015          2016           2017         2018          2019          2020          2021
                                           Rice Crop
Average rice output in 2010 in Nias (study base line)                                   ton/ha                   2.50            2.50          2.50          2.50          2.50          2.50          2.50          2.50          2.50          2.50          2.50
Improved Rrice output per hectare for participant LEDP farmer groups in 2012 December ton/Ha                     4.31            4.31          4.31          4.31          4.31          4.31          4.31          4.31          4.31          4.31          4.31
Area Planted                                                                            Ha                       436             436           436           436           436           436           436           436           436           436           436
Number of seasons                                                                       Seasons/yr                 3               3             3             3             3             3             3             3             3             3             3
Price of rice.                                                                          IDR/kg                13,000      13,000          13,000        13,000        13,000        13,000         13,000       13,000        13,000        13,000        13,000
Annual Production Increase                                                              kg/yr               2,367,480   2,367,480       2,367,480     2,367,480     2,367,480     2,367,480     2,367,480     2,367,480     2,367,480     2,367,480     2,367,480
Annual Extra Returns as a result of the project                                         $/yr                3,077,724   3,077,724       3,077,724     3,077,724     3,077,724     3,077,724     3,077,724     3,077,724     3,077,724     3,077,724     3,077,724


                                          Cocoa Crop
Average cocoa output in 2010 in Nias                                                    g/tree/week             10.00        10.00         10.00         10.00         10.00         10.00          10.00        10.00         10.00         10.00         10.00
Improved cocoa output per tree for participant LEDP farmer groups in 2012 December      g/tree/week             13.00        13.00         13.00         13.00         13.00         13.00          13.00        13.00         13.00         13.00         13.00
New cocoa trees output                                                                  g/tree/week             13.00        13.00         13.00         13.00         13.00         13.00          13.00        13.00         13.00         13.00         13.00
Numberof affected Cocoa trees                                                           Number               240,000     240,000         240,000       240,000       240,000       240,000        240,000      240,000       240,000       240,000       240,000
Number of new Cocoa trees                                                               Number               240,000     240,000         240,000       240,000       240,000       240,000        240,000      240,000       240,000       240,000       240,000
Price for cocoa                                                                         IDR/kg                25,000      25,000          25,000        25,000        25,000        25,000         25,000       25,000        25,000        25,000        25,000
Annual Production Increase from existing trees                                          kg/yr                 37,440      37,440          37,440        37,440        37,440        37,440         37,440       37,440        37,440        37,440        37,440
Annual Production Increase from new trees                                               kg/yr                162,240               0             0             0      81,120        81,120        162,240      162,240       162,240       162,240       162,240
Annual Extra Returns as a result of the project from existing trees                     $/yr                  93,600      93,600          93,600        93,600        93,600        93,600         93,600       93,600        93,600        93,600        93,600
Annual Extra Returns as a result of the project from new trees                          $/yr                 405,600               0             0             0     202,800       202,800        405,600      405,600       405,600       405,600       405,600


                                          Rubber Crop
Average rubber output in 2010 in Nias                                                   kg/100 trees/day         3.50            3.50          3.50          3.50          3.50          3.50          3.50          3.50          3.50          3.50          3.50
Improved rubber output per tree for participant LEDP farmer groups in 2012 December     kg/100 trees/day         6.25            6.25          6.25          6.25          6.25          6.25          6.25          6.25          6.25          6.25          6.25
New Rubber tree output                                                                  kg/100 trees/day         7.00            7.00          7.00          7.00          7.00          7.00          7.00          7.00          7.00          7.00          7.00
Number of affected Rubber trees                                                         Number               700,000     700,000         700,000       700,000       700,000       700,000        700,000      700,000       700,000       700,000       700,000
Number of new Rubber trees                                                              Number               700,000     700,000         700,000       700,000       700,000       700,000        700,000      700,000       700,000       700,000       700,000
Price of rubber latex                                                                   IDR/kg                12,000      12,000          12,000        12,000        12,000        12,000         12,000       12,000        12,000        12,000        12,000
Annual Production Increase from existing trees                                          kg/yr               7,026,250   7,026,250       7,026,250     7,026,250     7,026,250     7,026,250     7,026,250     7,026,250     7,026,250     7,026,250     7,026,250
Annual Production Increase from new trees                                               kg/yr              17,885,000              0             0             0             0             0    8,942,500 17,885,000 17,885,000 17,885,000 17,885,000
Annual Extra Returns as a result of the project                                         $/yr                8,431,500   8,431,500       8,431,500     8,431,500     8,431,500     8,431,500     8,431,500     8,431,500     8,431,500     8,431,500     8,431,500
Annual Extra Returns as a result of the project from new trees                          $/yr               21,462,000              0             0             0             0             0 10,731,000 21,462,000 21,462,000 21,462,000 21,462,000


Total Annual Revenues                                                                   $/yr               33,470,424 11,602,824 11,602,824 11,602,824 11,805,624 11,805,624 22,739,424 33,470,424 33,470,424 33,470,424 33,470,424


Annual cost of fertilizers                                                              $/yr                 125,000     125,000         125,000       125,000       125,000       125,000        125,000      125,000       125,000       125,000       125,000
Annual cost of machinery                                                                $/yr                 100,000     100,000         100,000       100,000       100,000       100,000        100,000      100,000       100,000       100,000       100,000
Labor Cost                                                                              $/yr               10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480 10,932,480
Total Annual Operation costs                                                            $/yr               11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480 11,157,480
Net Revenue (at year Zero it is the project cost)                                       $/yr               -8,000,000    445,344         445,344       445,344       648,144       648,144 11,581,944 22,312,944 22,312,944 22,312,944 22,312,944


Internal Rate of Return                                                                 %                     43.73%
Exchange Rate                                                                           IDR/1$                 10000
Labor cost is based on 2 worker fro farmer with daily wage ofUS$ 4.0. The number of farmers is 3744.




                                                                                                                        39
    Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision
                                Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
             Names                          Title                    Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Khairy Al-Jamal             Project Team Leader                   EASIS      Overall
Andre Bald                  Project Team Leader                   EASVS Overall
Shobha Shetty               Sr. Rural Economist                   EASRD Economist
Lilik Hidayat               Operations Specialist                 Consultant Operations
Melinda Good                Sr. Counsel                           LEGES Legal
Richard Chisholm            Sr. Agriculture Economist             EASRD Economist
Indira Dharmapatni          Sr. Operations Officer                EASIS      Social safeguard
Andrew Sembel               Environmental Specialist              EASIS      Environmental
                                                                             Safeguard
Yogana Prasta               Operations Advisor                    EACIF      Operations
Rajat Narula                Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM Financial
Unggul Suprayitno           Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM Financial
Christina I. Donna          Financial Management Analyst          EAPFM Financial
Bisma Husen                 Sr. Procurement Specialist            EAPPR Procurement
Amien Sunaryadi             Sr. Operations Officer                EACIF      Governance
Dayu N. Amurwanti           Operations Analyst                    EACIF      Operations
Rebekka Hutabarat           Team Assistant                        EACIF      Assistance
Ira Marina                  Team Assistant                        EACIF      Assistance

Supervision/ICR
Khairy Al-Jamal             Project Team Leader                   EASIS     Overall
                            Operation Officer – Agriculture
Mariam Rikhana                                                    EASIS     Agriculture
                            Specialist
Indira Dharmapatni          Sr. Operations Officer                EASIS     Social Safeguard
Purwanto                    Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM     FMS
Krisnan                     Environmental Safeguards Specialist   EASIS     Environmental
                                                                            Safeguard
Fandi Nasution              Governance specialist                 EACIF     Governance
Rebekka Hutabarat           Team Assistant)                       EASIS     Assistance
Naresha Duraiswamy                                                EASIS     ICR Primary Author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending(1)
  FY08                                              0.00                         0.00
  FY09                                              0.00                         0.00
  FY010                                             0.00                         0.00
                            Total:                  0.00                         0.00
                     (2)
Supervision/ICR


                                             40
 FY10                                          0.00                      0.00
 FY11                                          0.00                      0.00
 FY12                                          0.00                      0.00
 FY13                                          0.00                      0.00
                          Total:               0.00                      0.00
(1) All preparation costs were covered from the MDF (US$421,645.28)
(2) Almost all supervision costs were covered from MDF supervision budget totaling
US$ 315,398.93 over 3 years and were consistent with the normal supervision cost for
Indonesia.




                                          41
      Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                      42
              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No workshop, per say, took place. However, on November 19, 2012 in Jakarta; KPDT
organized a seminar to share the results of LEDP with the stakeholders (including the
MDF, BAPPENAS, MoF, Local Steering Committee members, Provincial Government
of Aceh, local governments, local NGOs, community individuals and farmers groups)
and discuss lessons learned. The seminar highlighted that the project represented a good
model of partnership between GoI, MDF and the Bank. It emphasized that the project
objective had been achieved and all remaining works would be completed by the project
closing date on December 31, 2012. This included the provision of rice seeds; cocoa and
rubber seedlings; farming equipment, tools and machinery; establishment of the five
nurseries; Utilization of community support grants; and training offered to KPDT, local
authorities and farmer groups.

The seminar also highlighted that the scope of the project was developed by in close
cooperation with Bappenas, KPDT, local authorities and communities and farmer groups
were selected in a balanced way to represent the various communities of Nias in
consultation with the project SC and the Local Steering Committee.

A number of farmer groups (mixed and women groups) presented their success in the use
of the community support grants in composting, growing vegetables, producing organic
pesticides and raising pigs. The groups were among the good performing ones which
received the award grants. They urged KPDT to keep their engagement and build on the
success on LEDP.

Finally the seminar highlighted on the importance of developing exit strategy for scaling
up the project and sustaining its outcomes through supporting Nias farmers, monitoring
the cocoa and rubber seedlings progress, maintenance and management of the five
nurseries and facilitation of access to farming inputs including fertilizers, good quality
seeds and seedling at reasonable price. The nurseries are expected to play an important
role to secure the availability of such inputs.




                                           43
    Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


       A. Operational Experience

1.     KPDT/Project Management Unit (PMU). KPDT/PMU has gained a wealth of
experience on project management involving aspects on planning, budgeting, execution
of project activities, resolving of problems and issues, project reporting. Likewise,
coordination with the PSC at the central level and with the LSC at the local level was
enhanced. The capacity of the Procurement Committee at KPDT level involved in the
procurement of required project inputs was also strengthened.
2.      FG/Farmer Level. With the implementation of the technical training programs
for the rubber, cacao and rice commodities, the participating farmers have gained
valuable experiences particularly on technical aspects involving land clearing and
preparation, planting, fertilizing, maintenance, pruning and sanitation for cacao, proper
tapping techniques for rubber, harvesting and collection for cocoa and rice, latex
processing, cocoa beans fermentation, etc. Likewise, with the implementation of the
BLM support grant, the participating farmers have also gained experience on the
production of organic fertilizers (composting) and production of bio-pesticides,
diversification of food crops (corn production) and vegetable production (chili and
eggplant) and chicken and pig raising.
3.      The participating farmers have applied the technical knowledge and skills they
obtained from the training programs in the cultivation of rice, rubber and cacao
commodities. The impact could be seen significantly in the case of the rice farmers, as
reflected by the remarkably good performance of their rice harvest during the first season
wherein the "weighted average production of “Ciherang variety? high-yielding rice
for the whole Project was 4.25 tons/ha or 0.95 tons/ha over the Target Key Indicator
of 3.3 tons/ha.
4.      In the case of rubber farmers, the benefits from the development of rubber could
only be seen when the new plantings start to produce from the 5th to 6th year. With the
application of the proper technology for the maintenance, tapping and processing of
rubber produce, the farmers were able to increase their income from their old rubber
stand. One farmer from FG Karamodoi (North Nias district) informed the ICR mission
that he was able to produce latex from 10 kg-15 kg to about 25 kg per week for his 400
trees after joining Nias LEDP with the employment of proper maintenance, tapping
techniques and better quality rubber produce with the use of processing and harvesting
techniques.
5.      For cacao farmers, the benefits derived from the development of cacao plantings
could not be seen yet as the production from the plantings will start within three to four
years from planting. With the application of the proper technology for the maintenance
(sanitation and use of plastic cover on cacao pods) and processing of cacao produce, the
farmers were able to increase their income from their old cacao plantings. The ICR
mission was informed by one farmer from FG Fahasaradodo (South Nias district) and
another farmer from FG Fandrou’u ((Nias district) that they were able to produce wet
cacao beans from 5 kg to about 50 kg per week (ten fold increase) after joining Nias


                                           44
LEDP with the use of proper maintenance (pruning and sanitation techniques which
eliminated/greatly reduced the effect of cocoa pod borers and use of use of plastic cover
on cocoa pods) and also better quality of cocoa beans produce through the use of
fermentation.




6.     It is worthwhile to note that non-project farmers also joined in the training
programs and farmer field schools conducted for the Project, and in some farmer
groups, non-project farmer relatives of project beneficiaries were also supplied with
rubber and cacao plantings materials by the project beneficiaries.
7.         Local Government Staff.
        207 LG staff (Bappeda and Dinas Pertanian/Peternakan/ Kelautan/Kehutanan)
were trained on aspects involving farmer groups organization, program management and
monitoring, program management associated with technical skills in tree crops (cacao
and rubber), nursery management, agro pastoral development training for food security
and energy self sufficiency, and agricultural marketing involving livelihoods activities.
These training programs were designed to improve the knowledge and skills of LG staff
for purposes of post-project sustainability.




      I.      Assessment of the outcome of the operations against the agreed objectives
8.      The following presents the outcome of the operations against the target key
indicators.

     Project Development
                                  Outcome Indicators        Status as of 31 December 2012
          Objective


                                            45
To facilitate post-disaster    At least 5 Kabupaten staff       Fulfilled
economic recovery by           (per district) trained in with   - 28 field extension officers
improving the ability of       program management and             (PPL) were trained in farmer
the Government to work         monitoring and evaluation          groups’ organization.
with poor rural households     skills to be able to assist      - 16 LG government staff were
in Nias to identify, develop   communities                        trained       in      Program
and sustain livelihood                                            Management and Monitoring
opportunities.                                                    by the project.


                               At least 25% of livelihood       Fulfilled
                               groups retain group              - 98 FGs of the 100 FGs
                               technical and                      supported by the project retain
                               organizational skills, and         group        technical       and
                               are accessing information,         organizational skills.
                               finance, and markets             - The project trained a total of
                               resulting in improved              11,451 farmers (6,020 men
                               livelihoods                        and     5,431    women)       on
                                                                  agricultural technical skills for
                                                                  rubber, cacao and rice
                                                                  plantation management. The
                                                                  trainings included sessions on
                                                                  organizational skill, access to
                                                                  information, financial and
                                                                  market understanding and a
                                                                  special training for 17 women
                                                                  groups on household financial
                                                                  management. Note: The total
                                                                  number of farmers is
                                                                  actually 3,744 but most
                                                                  farmers have attended 3-4
                                                                  training programs, thus
                                                                  adding it up to a total of
                                                                  11,451 farmers.


                               At least 5 Kabupaten Dinas Fulfilled
                               Pertanian staff (per district) - 121 staff from Nias Kabupaten
                               have acquired specific           and 7 Bappeda Sumut staff
                               technical skills in tree crops   were trained in program
                               nursery management and           management associated with
                               fertilizer handling and          technical skills in tree crops
                               distribution                     (cacao and rubber) and also on
                                                                nursery management
                                                              - Each Kabupaten has appointed


                                              46
                                                                    a counterpart nursery staff to
                                                                    work with the project staff in
                                                                    charge        of      nursery
                                                                    establishment.
                                                                -

                              At least 3 Kabupaten              Fulfilled
                              seedling nurseries are            All nursery sites established and
                              established, introducing          functional at project conclusion
                              improved rubber and cacao         (December 2012)
                              varieties, with sustainable
                              operating models


                              Increased rice yields to 3.3      Fulfilled
                              tons per hectare in targeted      - Weighted average production
                              producing groups through            of “Ciherang variety? high-
                              introduction of improved            yield rice for the whole
                              seeds of high-yielding              Project was 4.25 tons/ha or
                              varieties seeds and fertilizer      0.95 tons/ha over the Target
                              use.                                Key Indicator of 3.3 tons/ha.
                                                                - Farmers with harvest yields of
                                                                  3.3 and over tons/ha totaled
                                                                  372 (72.80%) of the 511
                                                                  farmers who planted the
                                                                  high-yield “Ciherang variety?.
                                                                - Farmers with harvest yields
                                                                  of over 2.5 tons/ha (reported
                                                                  yield before Nias LEDP)
                                                                  totaled 457 (89.43%) of the
                                                                  511 farmers who planted the
                                                                  high-yield “Ciherang variety?.

   Intermediate Results
       Component 1
                                Intermediate Outcome
     Community and                                              Status as of 31 December 2012
                                      Indicators
       Institutional
 Empowerment Outcome
Livelihood Improvement        At least five Kabupaten           Fulfilled
Groups in selected villages   staff (per district) trained in   - 20 staff from all Nias
are supported by local        a diverse range of group            kabupaten and Kota and 6
governments with              livelihoods activities              Bappeda Sumut staff trained
technical, administrative,                                        in        “Agro      pastoral
and financial skills, and                                         Development Training for
able access to relevant                                           Food Security and Energy self
information and prioritize                                        sufficiency?


                                             47
opportunities.                                 - 15 staff from all Nias
                                                 kabupaten and 1 Bappeda
                                                 Sumut staff trained in
                                                 agricultural        marketing
                                                 associated with livelihoods
                                                 activities in Nias.



                 Methodologies for group       Fulfilled
                 selection, formation and      PMC M&E team completed the
                 strengthening available and   following reports associated with
                 documented                    this topic:
                                               (i) Report on group formation
                                               (ii) Report on beneficiaries’
                                               satisfaction
                                               (iii) Project Gender checklist.


                 - 75% satisfaction with Fulfilled
                 group and village selection The M&E PMC assessed the
                 process                     group formation process and
                                             evaluated the groups and local
                                             stakeholders’ satisfaction with
                                             the village and group selection
                                             process.
                                             The assessment resulted as
                                             follows: (i) 67.71% of the
                                             respondents had a level of
                                             satisfaction >75-100%, (ii)
                                             18.75% of the respondents had a
                                             level of satisfaction >50-75% and
                                             (iii) 13.54 % of the respondents
                                             had a level of satisfaction> 0-
                                             25%.
                                             The combined level of
                                             satisfaction in the selection of the
                                             groups of the two first quartiles
                                             (level of satisfaction >50) is
                                             86.46%. As a result, it can be
                                             concluded that more than 75%
                                             of the respondents were satisfied
                                             with the process.

                 Improved diversity of         Fulfilled
                 livelihoods as indicated in   The project has promoted: (i) the
                 monitoring surveys            diversification of livelihoods


                               48
                                                             activities the implementation of
                                                             community support grants;
                                                             activities introduced among
                                                             others are: cultivation of corn,
                                                             chili, vegetables; chicken and pig
                                                             raising; and (ii) Supported
                                                             diversification of livelihood via
                                                             local gov't training on food
                                                             security and sustainability of
                                                             agro pastoral activities.

   Intermediate Results
       Component 2                Intermediate Results
  Agricultural and Other               Indicators            Status as of 31 December 2012
        Livelihoods
       Improvement
Outcome:                       - At     least    20%     of Fulfilled
Livelihood groups in           livelihood groups are fully - 98 of the 100 FGs (98%) are
adopting an agreed             functional at midterm and      functional      as    learning,
package of technical,          are being supported by         discussion and communication
social, and marketing skills   functional nursery and other - Five       Nurseries      were
for improvement of cacao,      supply systems                 established and is expected to
rubber, rice, vegetable,                                      be taken over by the relevant
livestock and other                                           government       agencies    at
livelihood activities.                                        project conclusion.
                                                            - Nursery support to the farmers
                                                              will be the responsibility of
                                                              the concerned LG after
                                                              turnover to the LGs.

                               At least 40% of livelihood    Fulfilled
                               groups adopt project          The result of Nias LEDP training
                               recommendations by            activities indicated that 69% of
                               project conclusion relative   the supported groups, at project
                               to baseline                   end, have adopted key farming
                                                             and livelihood project
                                                             recommendations.

  Intermediate Results
      Component 3
                             Intermediate Results
      Management,                                            Status as of 31 December 2012
                                   Indicators
    Monitoring and
       Evaluation
Outcome                   Project management team            Fulfilled
- A       system       of established, staff trained         (i) Project management team
management, monitoring and using systems and                 established under Minister


                                             49
and evaluation established   procedures aligned with      Decree No.034.1/KEP/M-
within the PMU for project   World Bank procurement       PDT/II/ 2009 dated 3 February
implementation and longer    and safeguards               2009.
term support to livelihood   methodologies                (ii) Project Operational Manual
development                                               delivered as condition of Grant
                                                          Effectiveness. Bahasa Indonesia
                                                          version finalized by PMU and
                                                          PMC consultants. Revised
                                                          English and Bahasa Indonesia
                                                          versions finalized by PMU and
                                                          PMC consultants
                                                          (iii) Supported PMU in planning
                                                          and managing procurement
                                                          activities.
                                                          (iv) PMU staff trained in
                                                          procurement using WB
                                                          methodologies, involving quality
                                                          assurance, good governance and
                                                          anti-corruption practices.

                             Baseline survey, benchmark Fulfilled
                             monitoring surveys and     Baseline survey Final Report
                             evaluation in proposed     completed in March 2012.
                             project areas completed on
                             time


   II.    Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation
          and implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons
          learned that may be helpful in the future
9.     During project preparation and implementation, the Government of Indonesia
(Bappenas, KPDT and Ministry of Finance) had worked closely with the World Bank and
MDF which provided very valuable support and cooperation to the Project and Project
stakeholders,
10.     During project preparation, the Project stakeholders worked closely with World
Bank staff in preparing the Project Operations Manual, which was one of the
administrative requirements for the negotiations of the project grant. Likewise, the
Project worked closely with World Bank staff in the preparation of the draft Request for
Expression of Interest (EOI), Project Procurement Plan, draft Request For Proposal
(RFP) for consulting firm, Terms Of Reference (TOR) of three (3) Individual
Consultants, consisting of Project Management Specialist (PM), Financial Management
Specialist (FM) and Procurement Specialist, and TOR for the Safeguards
Framework. The Project also worked closely with World Bank staff in the recruitment
of the project consultants through the hiring of an international procurement consulting
firm, Crown Agent Consultant, with funding from the UK Department for International



                                          50
Development (DFID). Crown provided assistance to KPDT in the procurement process
from preparing required tender documents up to its announcement in Dg Market or
international newspaper ((Jakarta Post) and local newspaper (harian Media Indonesia).
Lesson Learned. The criteria for the evaluation of consultants used in the evaluation
of project consultants for Nias LEDP required changes so that more relevant
information are highlighted to have better qualified consultants for the relevant
positions. For future projects, the project has prepared revised criteria for the
evaluation of consultants when there was a change in the position of Team Leader for
Nias LEDP. A copy of the revised criteria for the evaluation of the Team Leader is
attached as Annex 1. The criteria can also be applied to evaluate other key consultants.
11.     Selection of the 100 farmer groups that participated in the Project was conducted
by       the      local     governments        through      Bappeda         and     Dinas
Pertanian/Peternakan/Kelautan/Kehutanan. The selected 100 FGs came from 92 villages,
wherein seven (7) villages had two FGs each and one village with three FGs. [Note: The
7 villages with two FGs each were from South Nias district (3 villages), Nias Kabupaten
(3 villages) and in Kota Gunungsitoli (1 village), whereas the village with three FGs was
from Nias district. Six FGs had good implementation performance as evidenced by their
selection to implement the Community Support Grant (BLM reward).
Lesson Learned. For future projects, criteria for inclusion of farmer groups should
still be done by the local government concerned but with an additional requirement
that should follow “one FG per 1 desa concept? to be consistent with the Government’s
policy of “Equitable Development and Poverty Alleviation?.
12.      At the start of project implementation, criteria for the selection of the PMC field
facilitators required experience in field facilitation and willingness to work in Nias for
non-Nias applicants, with preference being given for experienced Nias field facilitators.
The established criteria were very difficult to achieve because the recruitment of field
facilitators experienced in field facilitation and willing to work in Nias were very few.
As a result, 29 (69%) of 42 field facilitators recruited for the Project are from Nias. The
other 13 field facilitators from other provinces in Indonesia who were mostly experienced
in field facilitation and willing to work in Nias. The 29 facilitators from Nias were less
experienced in field facilitation but field experience indicated that field facilitation
requires knowledge of the Nias dialect in order to be effective in dealing with Nias
farmers. Note that a significant number of the project farmers are not fluent in Bahasa
Indonesia. By the end of project implementation, there were 21 of the 23 facilitators are
from Nias.
Lesson Learned. For future projects in Nias or other similar areas, field facilitators
who have the facility of the local dialect will be more effective in field facilitation
provided they have the related educational background/experience and provided
training is provided for them.
13.      The PMC Consultants established the Regional Office Coordinators’ offices in
different locations, which situation has resulted in less coordination with the Agricultural
offices (Dinas Pertanian/Perkebunan). The ROCs hold their regular meetings with the
facilitators at the Regional Office Coordinators’ offices.



                                            51
Lesson Learned. The performance of the ROCs/facilitators would have been more
effective if the ROCs were holding their offices at the Dinas Pertanian/Perkebunan
offices of the concerned Kabupaten/Kota. Coordination with Dinas
Pertanian/Perkebunan would have been easier and the feeling of “Ownership of the
Project? would have been enhanced from the side of the LGs.
14.     KPDT worked in close consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in
determining the required technical specifications of the rubber and cacao planting
materials and rice seeds required for the Project. These technical specifications were
used in the procurement of the required Project inputs.
Lesson Learned. Consultations with the Ministry of Agriculture or other relevant
stakeholders are very helpful for KPDT since the technical specifications of the project
inputs are required for the procurement activities of the Project and also to avoid
possible problems in the future about the authenticity of the technical specifications.
15.    The contracts for the provision of rubber and cacao planting materials do not
provide the timeframe to replace dead planting materials delivered by the suppliers. .
Lesson Learned. Contracts for the provision of rubber and cacao planting materials
usually contain a provision stating that replacements have to be made for the mortality
on the planting materials delivered. The replacements however, is a certain percentage
of the quantity delivered to cover the normal mortality rate for live planting materials.
16.      During project implementation, the Project worked hand in hand with the World
Bank which provided very useful and timely advices in resolving Project issues and
problems, particularly those involving preparation of required project technical guidelines,
procurement of required Project inputs, (rubber and cacao planting materials, rice seeds,
fertilizers, and agricultural tools and equipment), distribution of the project inputs to the
farmer participants, and in the issuance of required no-objection letters involving the
technical guidelines prepared and procurement of project inputs in a timely manner. The
World Bank also assisted the project in providing on-the-spot recommendations during
field implementation supervision missions. The Multi Donor Fund also joined the World
Bank during the field implementation supervision missions and also provided the
necessary conduit with the implementation of the lLO Rural Access and Capacity
Building Project (RACBP).
Lesson Learned. Close coordination between the GOI stakeholders and Donor
organizations (MDF and World Bank) is very effective in resolving problems or issues
requiring immediate action by either party.

   III.    Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co-financiers, or of other
           partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation,
           including the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on
           lessons learned
17.     The World Bank has provided very valuable support and cooperation to the
Project and to Project stakeholders,
18.    During the start-up of the project, the World Bank assisted the project in
preparing the Project Operations Manual, which was one of the administrative


                                            52
requirements for the negotiations of the project grant. Likewise, the World Bank assisted
in the recruitment of the project consultants which was made through the hiring of an
international procurement consulting firm, Crown Agent Consultant with funding from
the UK Department for International Development (DFID), which provided assistance to
KPDT in preparing required tender documents up to its announcement in Dg Market or
international newspaper ((Jakarta Post) and local newspaper (harian Media Indonesia).
19.     During project implementation, the World Bank assisted the Project by providing
very useful and timely advices in resolving problems, particularly those involving
preparation of required project technical guidelines, procurement of required Project
inputs, (rubber and cacao planting materials, rice seeds, fertilizers, and agricultural tools
and equipment), distribution of the project inputs to the farmer participants, and in the
issuance of required no-objection letters involving the technical guidelines prepared and
procurement of project inputs in a timely manner. The World Bank also assisted the
project in providing on-the-spot recommendations during field implementation
supervision missions. The Multi Donor Fund also joined the World Bank during the field
implementation supervision missions and also provided the necessary conduit with the
implementation of the lLO Rural Access and Capacity Building Project (RACBP).
Lesson Learned. Close coordination between the GOI stakeholders and Donor
organizations (MDF and World Bank) is very effective in resolving problems or issues
requiring immediate action by either party.




   IV.     Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the
           project
20.     Since the Project will close on December 31, 2012, there is a need to have an
overall program to sustain the activities undertaken during the implementation of Nias
LEDP. This will involve post-project activities for the development of rubber and cacao
planted under the Project, as well as continuity of paddy development. There is a need to
integrate agricultural plans and opportunities in the concerned kabupaten RPJMD plans.
Such integration would support project sustainability and will have a significant and
sustainable impact on the livelihoods of the greatest number of poor households. In this
regard, the local government should identify the needed activities to support Nias
kabupaten/ kota rubber, cacao and rice agricultural processing and marketing plan that


                                             53
would be incorporated and integrated into the existing strategic plan interventions and
targets for the next 5 years. The funding requirements of the post-project activities
should be included in the overall budget of the concerned kabupaten/ kota
21.     The nurseries established at the kabupaten/kota level by the Project should be
maintained and the cost of maintenance be funded by concerned kabupaten/ kota. The
nurseries established at the kabupaten/kota level will be the source of high-yielding
rubber and cacao varieties to be provided to the farmers. As part of the post-project
sustainability plan, the development of nurseries in small-scale at the desa level can also
be planned so that high-yielding rubber and cacao varieties are also available at the desa
level.




22.    While capacity building for the rubber, cacao and rice farmers was very effective
during the Project implementation, similar training programs given under Nias LEDP,
including training on processing and post processing should be included in the overall
program of agricultural development of the concerned kabupaten/kota.
23.     Another area which should be included is the preparation of an overall strategy to
achieve “swasembada sayur mayur? and production of fruits at optimal productions
levels during the post-project period, which should be part of the overall exit strategy of
the project and to be included in the overall RPJMD plans of the concerned kabupaten
and kota.




                                            54
24.     The post-project sustainability program and overall exit strategy plan are activities
on horticulture (vegetables and fruits), such as:
          vegetables “imported? from Sumatra mainland but could potentially be grown
           in Nias;
           fruits sold to the mainland (already part of existing farmers’ livelihoods
           activities) will be identified and be grown in Nias and increase production
           volume to optimal quantities that would be able to provide additional income
           to both farmers and local governments;
          production of vegetables as one of the BLM activities implemented by some
           farmer groups should be included in the local governments’ strategic plan for
           possible interventions to undertake for its market potential.




                                             55
    Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

MDF Secretariat comments are provided below

These comments were prepared by the Secretariat of the Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and
Nias (MDF) and do not necessarily represent the views of the MDF Steering Committee
or donors. The MDF provided a grant of US$ 8.2 million for Nias LEDP, one of the
MDF’s 23 projects for post-disaster recovery in Aceh and Nias.
The Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias (MDF) was established to support the
implementation of the Government of Indonesia’s ( GoI ’s) rehabilitation and
reconstruction program after the December 2004 tsunami and subsequent March 2005
earthquake. At the request of the government, the World Bank serves as the trustee to
administer the MDF which is in turn governed by a Steering Committee comprised of
donors, GoI , and civil society representatives, with the United Nations and international
non-governmental organizations participating as observers. The donors contributing to
the MDF are: the European Union, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the World
Bank, Sweden, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Germany, the Asian Development Bank, the
United States of America, Belgium, Finland, New Zealand and Ireland. The MDF pools
about US$655 million in grant resources provided by these 15 donors, an amount
equivalent to about 10% of the overall reconstruction efforts. The MDF provided grants
for implementation of 23 projects in five outcome areas: recovery of communities,
recovery of large infrastructure and transport, strengthening governance and capacity
building, supporting sustainable management of the environment, economic development
and livelihoods, and providing support to enhance the overall reconstruction process.
The LEDP project contributes to the MDF’s outcome area of supporting economic
development and livelihoods.
In addition to the devastation brought about by the tsunami, in Nias the post-disaster
reconstruction challenges were compounded by the islands’ extreme isolation and long
time neglect by national and provincial authorities. The MDF Steering Committee made
the reconstruction an opportunity to address these long-term development challenges and
help put Nias on a stronger path towards recovery and sustainable economic development
through providing support for the agricultural sector.
The LEDP was part of a strategic package of support for Nias which combined the
LEDP’s targeted focus on increasing productivity in the production of three key
commodities with another project focused on improving rural access through the
construction of roads, trails and bridges under the International Labour Organisation’s
(ILO) Rural Access and Capacity Building Project (RACBP). Pairing these projects was
intended to enhance their combined impact by linking productivity increases with
improved access to markets and services. The preparation phase of the two projects took
a long time, and both projects faced delays in startup and implementation due to the
challenges of working in Nias. In this period, the Bank’s implementation support could
have been much stronger, and management attention enhanced, to speed up the
preparation and implementation. Project implementation periods were extended to the
maximum time possible given the closing of the MDF program in December 2012.


                                           56
Notwithstanding the delayed start up and reduced implementation period, both projects
were ultimately able to achieve their objectives.
Despite the time constraints on implementation, the LEDP has achieved good results in
terms of increased productivity and incomes, the creation of farmers groups, and
improving local skills and knowledge on appropriate agricultural practices. This was
particularly true for rice farmers under the project. The project was creating multiplier
effects as groups reported that the targeted beneficiary groups were actively sharing their
new skills and technologies with non-project groups in their communities.
Nevertheless, sustainability remains a risk for the LEDP, especially in terms of local
governments’ capacity to continue providing support to Nias’ farmers beyond the
project’s end. One of the lessons learned by the MDF has been that capacity building
takes time and is often in conflict with the need for urgency in a post-disaster context.
Nevertheless, given the long preparation time and truncated period available for
implementation before the end of the MDF’s mandate, the LEDP completed its activities
and has made an important contribution in helping Nias transition from the post-disaster
context to a longer-term sustainable development. The role of the Bank’s implementation
support was critical to success, as was the focus and attention of the national executing
agency for the project.




                                            57
                 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents




1. Project Appraisal Document
2. Grant Agreement
3. Mission Aide Memoires
4. Implementation Status Reports
5. MDF Midterm review
6. M&E Report
7. NIAS-LEDP Initiative: Scaling-Up of Nias LEDP Activities Integrated into
   RPJMD Strategic Plans 2013-2018
8. Nias LEDP: PMC: Final Report




                                     58
                                             MAP




Source: ILO office, Nias Island, Indonesia



                                             59
