Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1801 
Operation Name 
SV Broad Based Growth DPL II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P094146 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
August 31, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 22, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 10, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
El Salvador is a lower middle income country with a distinguished record of structural reforms. Since 
the early 1990’s, following the costly decade-long civil war of the 1980s, the country embarked on a 
series of economic reforms that have substantially benefited overall macroeconomic stability, social 
conditions, trade liberalization and access to international financial markets. The adoption of the U.S. 
dollar as legal tender in 2001 has yielded such positive impacts as low inflation and interest rates and  
reduced business uncertainty. El Salvador’s steadfast commitment to an outward oriented development 
strategy, is clearly evidenced in the fact that it was the first country to ratify the Central America Free 
Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) with the United States.  
While El Salvador has posted important gains toward meeting most of the Millennium Development 
Growth targets since 1990, bolstering economic growth rates which have remained low since the late 
1990’s, constitutes the single most important challenge toward complying with the MDGs.   The period 
between 1991 and 2002 saw a significant decline in overall poverty (over 27 percentage points); the 
halving of extreme poverty and impressive progress in social areas (including inter alia, rates of 
enrollment in basic education, infant and maternal mortality, access to both reproductive health services 
and safe water.)  However, growth levels slowed in recent years due in large part to a combination of 
external shocks including earthquakes, depressed coffee prices, international recession and, more 
recently, high oil prices.  As a result of these factors, growth since 2000 has averaged less than 2.0%, 
barely enough to keep per capita incomes roughly constant.  This low growth coupled with the 
substantial reconstruction outlays of the 2001 earthquakes and growing transition costs associated with 
El Salvador’s ongoing pension reform are key factors contributing to the country’s increasing debt 
levels.   
Against this backdrop, President Saca’s Administration assumed office in June 2004 with a 
comprehensive development program aimed at addressing El Salvador’s prevailing challenges.
 
This 
comprehensive strategy, referred to as the “Safe Country Program, focuses on sound macro-fiscal 
management, foreign investment promotion, free trade, and a private sector-led development. Within 
this context, reigniting broad-based growth is first and foremost amongst the challenges, as successful 
bolstering of such growth is considered key to create jobs, raise incomes, generate government revenue, 
lower the debt burden and drive down poverty. Second, the government seeks to address recent fiscal 
disequilibria so as to stem growing debt levels while maintaining fiscal space to adequately finance its 
development agenda. Third, the government is pushing ahead with modernization of its public sector in 
order to use its limited fiscal resources to greatest effect.  
Page  2
The above areas also constitute the main goals of the DPL series that underlie the Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS) approved by the Bank in February of 2005 along with DPL 1.  This programmatic series  
of operations are designed to 
support the three main pillars of the government’s development plan “Safe 
Country 2004-2009: (i) to accelerate broad-based, equitable economic growth and increase employment; 
(ii) to improve equity through building human capital and expanding access to socioeconomic 
infrastructure, assets and markets; and (iii) to enhance security and reduce vulnerability.   
Support from the Bank for El Salvador’s development plan is also complemented by ongoing operations 
in education, health, land administration, public sector reform and judicial reform, as well as loans under 
preparation for social protection, secondary education, environmental services, public sector 
modernization and support services for small and medium enterprises.  
2. Proposed objective(s) 
In line with the Government’s reform program, this second DPL and the two planned additional 
operations are intended to contribute to the Government's objectives of (i) reigniting growth, particularly 
through increased trade and investment, (ii) reinforcing macroeconomic stability and strengthening 
fiscal sustainability, and (iii) increasing the efficiency and transparency of public sector management.   
 
The first DPL, approved by the Bank in February 2005, supported actions with emphasis in the fiscal 
consolidation and trade area. Actions supported included signing of DR-CAFTA, a new Competition 
Law, reductions in the costs and time in business registration and operation for small and medium 
enterprises, approval of fiscal reform, modification of early retirement provisions, launch of an e-
government strategy, and progress in the public financial management program.  The emphasis in the 
second DPL will switch to greater emphasis on trade and investment climate measures, with greater 
attention to infrastructure and financial sector issues in later DPLs in the series. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
This second DPL operation focuses mostly on addressing fiscal issues and strengthening the 
international trade and business environment, drawing on the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), 
the Public Expenditure Review (PER), a regional study “DR-CAFTA: Challenges and Opportunities for 
Central America” and the El Salvador Investment Climate Assessment. It also includes follow up 
actions in public financial management and procurement regulations, to ensure gradual implementation 
of measures identified in the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and Country 
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). Major actions supported through this operation include the 
ratification of DR-CAFTA, approval of a new Consumer Protection Law, launch of a national ICT 
strategy, creation of a high level body in charge of innovation policy, approval of a fiscal reform to 
increase excise taxes, formulation of 2006 budget consistent with medium term macro plan, and 
issuance of new procurement regulations. 
4. 
Environment Aspects 
The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not expected to entail significant impacts on 
the environment, forests or other natural resources.  However, to the extent that measures supported by 
the DPL program are successful, over time, in attracting new investment (including in infrastructure) 
and trade expansion, there will be a need to strengthen El Salvador’s national institutional capacity to 
identify and address environmental policy and regulatory issues. With this in mind, a strategic Country 
Environmental Analysis (CEA) was launched in the first semester of 2005, with final results and 
recommendations expected to be delivered early in 2006. The ongoing CEA aims to analyze the 
efficiency and effectiveness of El Salvador’s environmental policy and institutional framework to 
address current and future environmental issues with special emphasis on those arising from trade 
Page  3
liberalization and infrastructure investments. The results of this analysis will provide timely inputs for 
the preparation of subsequent loans in this programmatic DPL series.   
 
4. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
5. Contact point 
Contact: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3771 
Fax:  
Email: cjaramillo@worldbank.org
 
