                                                Document of
                                              The World Bank

                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                    ReportNo. 34020-SV



        INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND

                                            DEVELOPMENT

                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                           FORA PROPOSED

                            SECOND BROAD-BASED GROWTH

                              DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                       INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$ 100MILLION

                                                      TO

                            THE REPUBLICOF EL SALVADOR



                                        NOVEMBER 11, 2005




Central America Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and the Caribbean Region
InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development



This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their official duties. Its
content maynototherwise bedisclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  CurrencyUnit= US$1
                       Fiscal Year:
                July 1,2005 -June 30,2006

            ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

BCR            Central Reserve Bank
CAFTA          Central America Free Trade Agreement
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBI            Caribbean Basin Initiative
CEA            Country Environmental Analysis
CEM            Country Economic Memorandum
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CONACYT        National Council for Science and Technology
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Review
DR-CAFTA       Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement
               with the United States of America
DPL            Development Policy Loan
DIGESTYC       National Directorate for Statistical and Census
EDUCO          Community EducationProgram
FDI            Foreign Direct Investment
FOVIAL         RoadMaintenance Fund
FSAP           Financial Sector Assessment Program
FTA            Free Trade Agreement
FTAA           Free Trade Agreement of the Americas
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IADB           Inter-American Development Bank
ICA            Investment Climate Assessment
ICT            Information and Communication Technology
IMF            InternationalMonetary Fund
L A C          Latin America and the Caribbean
LACAP          Law on Public Sector Procurement and Contracting
M S M E        Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise
NAFTA          NorthAmerica Free Trade Agreement
NFPS           Non-Financial Public Sector
OED            Operations and Evaluations Department
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PFM            Public Financial Management
PSIA           Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
RED1           RecentEconomic Developments inInfrastructure
SAFI           Integrated financial management system
SIGET          Superintendence o f Energy andTelecommunications
SIRH           Integrated System For HumanResource Management
SMEs           Small and Medium Enterprises
SSF            Superintendence for the Financial System
U N A C        Procurement Policy Office



                             11

                         VICE-PRESIDENT        PAMELACOX
                      COUNTRY DIRECTOR JANEARMITAGE
                      SECTOR DIRECTOR ERNESTO            MAY
                      TASKMANAGER AND




                                ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The World Bank Group greatly appreciates the close collaboration with the Government of El
Salvador inthe preparation of this Development Policy Loan (DPL).

Team members includeAquiles Almansi, Ana LuciaArmijos, Jordan Schwarz, Pablo
Fajnzylber, Maria del Carmen Mifioso, Sonia C. Molina, Mario Sangines, Manuel Sevilla,
RicardoTejada, Manuel Vargas and Evelyn Villatoro. The team was ledby C. Felipe Jaramillo.
The team would like to thank the entire El Salvador country team for their contributions and
give special thanks to Todd Crawford (LCOQE), Jan Walliser (OPCS) for valuable comments,
as well as LEGLA and LOAGl.


                                                        ELSALVADOR
              SECONDPROGRAMMATICBROAD-BASEDGROWTH
                                  DEVELOPMENTPOLICYLOAN

                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
I COUNTRYCONTEXT....................................................................................................                                                        3
I1
 ..     THE ECONOMY: ...........................................................................................................                                            4
        A. GROWTH:CHALLENGESAND RECENTEVOLUTION
        B.                                                                                             ................................................................ 4
            FISCALCHALLENGES               ...................................................................................................................... 7
        C. GOVERNMENTPRIORITIESAND DEVELOPMENTPLAN                                                          ........................................................... 7

I11     CAS STRATEGY AND ECONOMICAND SECTORWORK                                                                                 ...................................         8
rv..    THE PROPOSEDLOAN...............................................................................................                                                    11
        A.   PROGRESSIN THE BROAD-BASEDGROWTHAGENDA............................................                                                                            11
             1                                                                                                                                                             13
             2.. ACCELERATINGBROAD-BASEDGROWTH                                               .......................................................................
                                                                                                                       ...............................................     20
                                                                                                  ................................................................... 24
        B.   3. PUBLICSECTORFINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                 RESTORINGA SOUND FISCALFRAMEWORK............

             POVERTYAND SOCIALIMPACTS                                 .............................................................................................. 26
        C .  ENVIRONMENTALAND NATURALRESOURCESASPECTS                                                              ...................................................     27
        D. DESIGNOFDPL..............................................................................................................................                       28
        E M&EARRANGEMENTS
          .                                     ........................                                                 ..............................................    28
        F.   FIDUCIARY ASPECTS             .............................                    ........................................................................       30
        G LOANADMINISTRATION......................
        H BENEFITS
        I RISKANDMITIGATION
         ...                                                                                ...........................................
                       ........................................................................................................................................ 31
                                               ................................................................................................................            32

V.     COORDINATIONWITH DONORS AND STAKEHOLDERS ................................                                                                                           33

Figures
Figure 1    ElSalvador:EconomicActivity Volume Index                             ...................................................................................... 6
Figure2     Government Strategy 2004-2009Safe Country                           .......................................................................................     8
.
Boxes
Box 1       The RedSolidariaProgram          ....................................................................................................................           10
Box 2       DR-CAFTAImpacton CentralAmerica                            ..............................................................................................       14
Box 3       EnvironmentalCountryAssessment.                      PreliminaryFindings                 .................................................................      28
Box 4       ProgressTowardMeetingMedium-TermOutcomes                                    .............................................................................       29
.
Tables
Table 1     OuarterlvGDP Growth
             .           .................................................................................................................................
                                      ............................................................................................................................          5
Table 2     DPLIIactions
Table 3     DPL111triggers...............................................................................................................................
Table 4     ExpectedYield of Tax Reformsin 2005                     ................................................................................................        20
Table 5    MediumTermmacroeconomicScenario                          .............................................................             ............................. 23

ANNEXES
Annex 1:    LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
Annex 2:    RESULTSFRAMEWORK- ELSALVADOR BROAD BASEDDPLI1
Annex 3:    PUBLICFINANCIALMANAGEMENTMILESTONES. SALVADOR BROADBASEDDPLII                            EL
Annex 4:    INTERNATIONALMONETARY FUNDASSESSMENTNOTE
Annex 5:    DEBTSUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS
Annex 6:    ELSALVADORAT A GLANCE

MAP         IBRDNo. 33401



                                                                           iv


                 LOANAND PROGRAM SUMMARY
                             ELSALVADOR
                  SV BROADBASED GROWTHDPL II

Borrower       Government of El Salvador
Implementing   Technical Secretariatof the Presidency

Amount         US$lOOmillion
               Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL) in U S Dollars with custom repayments of
               principal commitment-linked, LIBOR based variable interest rates
               based on cumulative disbursements of USD$lOO,OOO,OOO.              The
               Borrower also chose a grace period of 2 year and a total repayment
               term of 19.5 years.     Payment dates for interest and commitment
               charges due on each June 1 and December 1, with the following
               Amortization Schedule, duringthe life of the Loan:

                                PaymentDate InstallmentShare
                            June 1,2008 -December 1,2010            3.OO%
                            June 1,2012 -December 1,2012.. .....3.60%

                            OnJune 1,2025.. ................ .
                            June 1,2013 -December 1,2024.. .....3.00%
                                             .              . .......2.80%
               0.85% on undisbursed loan balances for first four years, 0.75% on
               undisbursedloanbalancesthereafter.
               1% of the loan amount, less 0.75% waiver.
               Single tranche for the full amount of the loanminus the front-end fee.

               The proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL) would constitute the
               second in a programmatic series of up to four DPLs intended to
               support the Government's medium term development strategy to
               accelerate broad based and equitable economic growth and to
               contribute to the Government's objectives o f (i)     reigniting growth,
               particularly through increased private investment and trade, (ii)
               reinforcing macroeconomic       stability   and strengthening fiscal
               sustainability, and (iii)
                                       increasing the efficiency and transparency of
               public sector management.
               This second loan of the program builds on the successful first
               operation and focuses on addressing fiscal issues and on strengthening
               the international trade and business environment, for which it will
               draw on findings set forth in the CEM, PER, DR-CAFTA studies, as
               well as the Investment Climate Assessment. It will likewise continue
               to emphasize transparency and efficiency in public spending by
               including follow up actions on public financial management and
               procurement regulations to ensure the gradual implementation of
               measures as prescribed inthe CFAA and CPAR.
               TheKey benefits expectedfrom theprogram are:
                  Meetingjifiscal andjinancial needs. This proposed loan would helE


                                     1

                    meet the Government's objective of providing financing on more
                    favorable terms and diversifying fin-ancing sources for its 2006
                    budget.This, in turn, would support the Government's concurrent
                    goals of fiscal stabilization and addressing social needs through
                    increasedandmore efficient spending.
                    Improving the outlook for economic growth. The loan supports a
                    broad agenda of measures anchored around El Salvador's efforts
                    to deepen its      outward-development agenda, including its
                    participation in DR-CAFTA. The agenda includes key actions of
                    the complementary agenda of policy and institutional reforms to
                    ensure that El Salvador can fully benefit from the opportunities of
                    trade and greater integration into the world economy.         Key
                    complementary actions include measures to facilitate the
                    expansion of trade and investment levels, improvements in the
                    investment climate, addressing infrastructure investment and
                    services, and promotinginnovation and technology.
                    Increasing the eficiency and transparency of public sector
                    management. The loan supports public sector modernization
                    efforts aimed at improving the efficiency of public expenditures,
                    strengthening governance and fighting corruption with a specific
                    focus on government procurement and financial management.
                    Efforts in these areas are also expected to foster an environment
                    more conducive to investment and growth.
Risks             Themost important risksfaced by this operation are:
                    Fiscal. El Salvador's current N I T S debt burden increases its
                    vulnerability to potential shocks.
                    Political.   Despite the strong electoral mandate obtained by
                    President Saca in the '04 elections, a divided Assembly could
                    delay important reforms and the ratification of DPL11.
                    External.    Sustained high oil prices or a new international
                    recession could negatively affect El Salvador's economy and
                    worsen debt dynamics. An increase in international interest rates
                    posesmoderate risks of unexpected additional financing costs.
                     Natural disasters. El Salvador remains vulnerable to natural
                    disasters (e.g., earthquakes, hurricanes and volcanoes) which can
                    hinder overall economic performance in the short-term and may
                    require significant unanticipated expenditures for emergency
                    assistance andreconstruction.
                    Crime and Violence. Continuing problems with crime and
                    violence in El Salvador could also pose a risk to the achievement
                    of the reform objectives.   Highlevels of crime and violence have
                    a direct negative economic and social impact, and also negatively
                    affect the investment climate and overall image of the country.
ODerationIDNumber PO94146




                                      2

                                      ELSALVADOR
              SECOND PROGRAMMATICBROAD-BASED GROWTH
                            DEVELOPMENTPOLICYLOAN

                              I. COUNTRYCONTEXT

1.      El Salvador is a lower middle income country with a distinguished record of
structural reforms. Coming out of a costly decade-long civil war in the 1980s, its strong
record of economic reforms since the early 1990shas resultedinmajor benefits interms of
macroeconomic stability, improved social conditions, trade liberalization and access to
international financial markets. The adoption of the U.S. dollar as legal tender in 2001 has
resulted inlow inflation, reducedbusinessuncertainty and low interest rates. With a strong
commitment to an outward oriented development strategy, El Salvador was the first
country to ratify in its legislature the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade
Agreement (DR-CAFI'A) with the UnitedStates.

2.       While El Salvador has posted important gains toward meeting most of the
Millennium Development Growth targets since 1990, its major challenge remains
lifting economic growth rates, which have been low since the late 1990s. Overall
poverty declined significantly (over 27 percentage points) between 1991 and 2002,
extreme poverty was halved in the same period and impressive progress was also made in
social areas -- including in basic education enrollment, infant and maternal mortality,
access to reproductive health services and access to safe water. However, growth levels
slowed in recent years due in large part to external shocks. Earthquakes, depressed coffee
prices, international recession and, more recently, high oil prices have led to low growth
levels. As a result of these factors, growth since 2000 has averaged less than 2.0%. Low
growth i s also a key factor behind increasing debt levels since 2001, along with substantial
reconstruction outlays after the 2001 earthquakes and growing transition costs from
pensionreform.

3.      President Saca's Administration came to power in June 2004 with a
comprehensivedevelopment program that addressesgrowth, fiscal consolidationand
public sector modernization. The plan features an agenda of policies and investments
aimed at restoring growth, generating employment and alleviating poverty, along with
parallel efforts to redress recent fiscal trends and to deepen improvements in public
financial management. The plan i s supported by a programmatic DPL series that underlies
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by the Bank inFebruary of 2005.

4.      After a year of implementation of President Saca's development plan, the
economy is showing robust signs of recovery. Indicators reveal a pickup in broad
economic activity since the end of 2004, as demonstrated by healthy export growth,
growing imports of capital and intermediate goods, as well as strong FDI flows. Higher
than expected remittance growth is providing an added boost to consumption. The pickup
in economic activity has occurred despite the sharp spike in oil prices. In addition, tax
revenues have improved near expectations and deficit targets are broadly on track for end
2005.



                                             3

5.      Following on a successful initial DPL approved by the Bank's Board in
February of 2005,l the second DPL described in this document and the two planned
additional operations are intended to contribute to the Government's objectivesof (i)
reigniting growth, particularly through increased trade and investment, (ii)           reinforcing
macroeconomic stability and strengthening fiscal sustainability, and (iii)          increasing the
efficiency and transparency of public sector management. This loan i s part of the
programmatic series which serves as the vehicle for delivering the bulk of the Bank's
financial assistance to El Salvador during the CAS period, in support of the government's
medium term development plan. Major actions supported through DPL I1 include
ratification of DR-CAFTA, approval of a new Consumer Protection Law, presentation of a
law for securitization, approval of a fiscal reform to increase excise taxes, formulation of
2006 budget consistent with medium term fiscal targets, issuance of new rules on loan
classification and provisioning for financial institutions, issuance of new procurement
regulations, and measures to implementthe e-Government strategy and the public financial
managementprogram.

                                  11.       THE ECONOMY

A. GROWTH:CHALLENGESAND RECENTEVOLUTION
6.      Despite impressive progress in structural reforms and sound macroeconomic
management, the Salvadoran economy weakened since 2000 due mainly to a series of
exogenous shocks. The coffee crisis, the devastating 2001 earthquakes and the global
recession explain to a large extent the sluggish growth of the period 2000-2003 (1.9%
annually). In 2003 and 2004 real growth averaged only 1.7% due to a decline in
agricultural output, a decline in public sector reconstruction efforts and private sector
invesment related to the uncertainty surrounding the 2004 presidential election. In 2004,
low growth was also a result of delays in Government investment plans due to the late
approval of the 2004 budget (June), risingoil prices and some weakness inmaquila exports
related to the anticipation of the scheduled end of textile quotas by 2005 in the United
States.

7.      After a period of impressive achievements in the 1990s, progress in poverty
reduction has slowed since 2000. El Salvador has made a number of important socio-
economic gains since the returnto peace. Economic growth, coupled with reforms in some
key sectors and increasesin social sector spending, contributed to substantial reductions in
poverty and improvements in basic socio-economic indicators. Indeed, poverty declined
from 64.4 % in 1991 to 37.2% in2000. Inthe same period, extreme poverty declined from
31.2% to 15.4%; education levels have risen; access to basic services, such as safe water,
has increased; and basic health outcomes, such as life expectancy, infant and child
mortality, and child nutrition have all improved. With lower economic growth and external
shocks, progress in social indicators has slowed down since 2000, as demonstrated by the
Bank's recent Poverty Assessment. However, the study concludes that despite the 2001
earthquakes and other shocks, most of the gains in poverty and other social indicators had
been maintained.


 DPLIwas ratedrecently as "highly satisfactory" by the Bank's Quality AssuranceGroup.


                                                  4

8.      Strong capital flows and remittances account for the twin deficits in the trade
balance and the current account. The external current account deficit has increased since
2002 financed mainly by strong capital inflows, including FDI. The large trade imbalance
of recent years that reached 18% of GDP in 2004 i s likely to persist in the medium term
financed by the significant flow of remittances from Salvadorans living abroad.
Remittances have increased from an average of 2.6% of GDP during the 1980s to 16% in
2004, displaying remarkable stability despite the downturn ineconomic activity inthe U.S.
in 2001-02. Inthe first eight months of 2005, the value of remittance flows grew beyond
expectations (12% year on year).

9.      ElSalvador faces challenges to reignite growth. According to the Bank's recent
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), which evaluatedpositively El Salvador's reform
agenda of recent years, key priority areas going forward include (i)                        further expanding
international trade, (ii)    maintain macroeconomic stability and address fiscal vulnerabilities,
(iii)improving the investment climate, (iv) addressing remaining bottlenecks in
infrastructure, (v) fostering innovation and adoption of new technology and, (vi) increasing
the educational level of the population.

10.     After a year of implementation of President Saca's development plan, the
economy is showing strong signs of recovery. The Index of Economic Activity (IVAE)
reveals a turning point in broad economic activity at the end of 2004, with a trend growth
rate of 2.2% as of June 2005 (Figure 1).Consistent with this trend, GDP growth has picked
up from 1.6% in the first quarter of 2005, to 2.5% in the second quarter - the highest
quarterly rate recorded by El Salvador since 1999 (Table 1). The recovery i s led by a
recovery in agricultural output (led by significant growth inproductionof cotton, fisheries,
poultry, grains, sugar and milk),as well as the return to positive growth in the construction
sector. The pickup in economic activity has occurred despite the rise in oil prices which
hasbeenpassedthrough to Salvadoran consumers.2

                        Table 1.Quarterly GDP Growth. 2004-June 2005
                                                     2004                                  2005
                                 Q1            Q2              Q3            Q4        Q1        4 2
          Agriculture            1.4            3.6            3.6           4.3       3.4       4.4
          Manufacturing          0.9            0.3            0.9           0.8       -1.4      0.1
          Construction          -1.8            -17           -18.2         -16.9     -13.8      0.9
          Services               2.3            2.6            2.4                     2.9       2.5
          Other                   4             2.2            0.9           -1.7      2.2       3.9
          GDP                    1.8            1.5            1.4           1.5       1.6       2.5
          Source: Banco Central de la Reserva de El Salvador. Preliminaryestimates.




  As this document was being finalized heavy rains associated with Humcane Stan and the eruption of
    Ilamatepec volcano in the first week of October caused damage to agricultural production and
    infrastructurein some rural areas of the country. However, an early assessmentof the damage does not
    suggest a significant impact on overall economic activity or the government's fiscal plans.


                                                               5

11.    Other important signs of recovery include healthy export growth, the pickup
in imports of capital and intermediate goods and stronger than expected FDI flows.
At mid-year, the value of exports was growing at 7.3%, with shipments of non traditional
goods increasing by 10.4%. Higher commodity prices explain the impressive growth in
value of traditional exports which have increasedby nearly 38% in the first six months of
the year. The maquila industry has weathered well the end of the MFA quotas, with
exports to the U.S. growing continuing to grow (1% in value, 7% in volume), despite
heavier competition from China and other Asian suppliers. Imports of capital and
intermediate goods grew by 9.3% in the first seven months of 2005, compared to a
decrease of about 1% in the same period of 2004. FDIflows have surpassedexpectations
and are now expected to reach 2.5% of GDP in 2005 (up from estimates of only 1.5% at
end 2004). Higher exports, consumption and investment are expected to bolster growth in
2005 to 2.5%, up from 1.5% in2004.


                                                   FIGURE1
                     ELSALVADOR: ECONOMICACTIVITY             VOLUMEINDEX(IVAE)
                                          (AS OF JUNE 2005,1990 = 100)

               5.0%


               4.0%


               3.0%


               2.0%

            *k 1.0%

           cc
           e
               0.0%
           85 -1.0%


              -2.0%


              -30%


              -4.0%


              -6 no,.




          Source: Central Bank of El Salvador


12.    Going forward, Government efforts to improve and update key statistics will
provide a better basis to evaluate the growth potential of the Salvadoran economy
and to enhance targeting of public expenditures towards the poor. The Government i s
implementing a comprehensive program that includes a new population census (to be
carried out in 2006, last one performed in 1992), sectoral censuses (Agricultural census,
Housing census) and a series of surveys (Annual Economic surveys; National Household
Survey, and Multiple Purpose Surveys for specific sectors of the economy).          A key
objective of this effort is to review and update national accounts databases to improve the
measurement of sectoral and aggregate growth, In addition, the population census will
improve demographic information, including improved estimates of migration flows


                                                       6

(which have been significant to the U.S. since the civil war of the 1980s) and net
population growth. Such estimates will allow a better assessment of the economic growth
levels requiredto meet key welfare andpoverty goals.

B.FISCAL   CHALLENGES
13.     Non financial public sector deficits and debt levels have risen since 2000, as a
result of low growth and some expenditure pressures. El Salvador's non-financial
public sector deficit reached a peak of 4.4 9%of GDP in 2002 and although it has been
reduced to 3.7% of GDP in 2003, debt levels increased by about 11% of GDP in the
period 2000-2003, taking the overall NFPS debt level to 40.7% of GDP by end 2003.
Much of this increase in public debt can be attributed to the need for expenditures to
respond to emergency reconstruction challenges of the 2001 earthquakes and the financing
of the transition costs of the 1996 pension reform. Given the El Salvador's good standing
as a sovereign debtor ininternational markets, much of the fiscal burden has been financed
at moderate cost.

14.     Fiscal consolidationis neededto put the public debt on a downward path and
reduce vulnerabilities. The Bank's 2004 Public Expenditure Review (PER) concluded
that further growth in debt and associated interest payments could eventually be reflected
inmarket spreads and affect ElSalvador's hard-earnedcreditworthiness. The updated debt
sustainability analysis presented in Annex 5 indicates that an average primary surplus of
0.7-0.8% of GDP would be needed between 2006 and 2009 in order to obtain a debt-to-
GDP ratio below 40% of GDP by 2009 while simultaneously increasing public
investments in human capital and infrastructure. The PER indicated that the bulk of the
adjustment would have to be made on the revenue front due to the relatively small overall
size of public expenditures, their high efficiency levels in most areas, and the need to
finance growing pensiontransition costs.

15.     One significant item that El Salvador will need to continue to accommodate in
fiscal accounts over the medium term is the cost of pension reform. El Salvador
adopted a pension reform in 1996 that replaced the existing pay-as-you-go system with a
system of individual retirement accounts. The reform was aimed at improving long-term
fiscal sustainability by replacing a system that was projected to yield large and growing
deficits in the future with an individual capitalization system for younger Salvadorans,
implyingtransitional costs as social security contributions moved to privateaccountswhile
the state remains obligated to pay out pensions to older generations. To face mounting
transition costs of the pension reform, the Saca administration obtained legislative passage
of provisions that eliminated early retirement and are expected to generate a savings of 1%
of GPD between 2005 and 2009. Nevertheless, unless new actions are taken, net outlays
required to finance the transition are expected to average about 2.2% of GDP per year over
the period 2005-2009.

c.GOVERNMENT       PRIORITIESAND DEVELOPMENT         PLAN
16.     The new Government has a strong mandate and a vision to tackle El
Salvador's current challenges. On June 2004, the new President Antonio Saca assumed
office with considerable legitimacy, since he was elected with a record turnout of around


                                              7

60%. The Government's Plan "Safe Country 2004 - 2009," (summarized inFigure 1and
discussed at more length in the CAS), focuses on sound macro-fiscal management, foreign
investment promotion, free trade, and a private sector-led development. As recognized by
the Government, three areas of economic policy and structural reform will underpin the
broader success of the development plan. First, the Government views reigniting broad-
based growth as its ultimate challenge, as this holds the key to create jobs, raise incomes,
generate Government revenue, lower the debt burden and drive down poverty. Second, the
Government is seeking to address recent fiscal disequilibria so as to stem growing debt
levels while maintaining fiscal space to adequately finance its development agenda. Third,
the Government i s pushing ahead with modernization o f its public sector with an aim to
using its limited fiscal resources to greatest effect. The plan is aimed at reducing the
overall deficit to about 1.3% o f GDP and overall debt levels below 40% of GDP by the end
o f the presidential term (2009), while at the same time absorbing the growing costs o f
pensionreform and creating space for gradually increasinginvestment levels (see Table 5).




              PillarI                                  PillarII                                 PillarIII
    Accelerating Broad-Based           ImprovingEquitythrough Building            EnhancingSecurity andReducing
       EquitableGrowthand                 HumanCapitaland Expanding                           Vulnerability
      IncreasingEmployment                Accessto BasicInfrastructure,
                                                 AssetsandMarkets


 Ensuringsoundmacro-management           Modernizing education and building   MakingEl Salvador a safe country through-
 andfiscal remonsibilitv.                the knowledgesociety.                control andreductionof violence.

 DeeDeninginsertion inworld              Improving quality and universal      Ensuring social and economic rights of
 markets through reeionalinteeration     coverage of health services.         individuals and businesses by strengthening
 and trade.                                                                   rule of law.
                                         Designinglocal andregional
 Increasing nroductivitv and             strategies- focused on expanding     Modernizing aublic administration and
 comnetitiveness through imaroving       access to basic infrastructure,      services. in order to improve transvarency
 the investment climate and taking       promoting agricultural               and effciencv of resource use.
 advantageof technologvand               diversification and facilitating
 connectivirn.                           private sector investment.           Promoting social cohesion and stronger
                                                                              families through a more effective social
 Generating employment and               Strengthening family assets by       safety net and improving quality of life at
 opportunities bv SirauortinP SMEs.      facilitating access to housing and   the local level.
                                         expanding land administration and
 ImDrovingmarket regulation and          titling efforts.                     Enhancing the interest offuture generations
 supervision.                                                                 by protecting the environment.

                                         'ROMOTING PARTICIPATIONAND CONSENSUS
                                   BUILDING PARTNERSHIPSWITHSALVADORANSABROAD
 rote: Underlinedpriorities are those supportedby programmatic DPL series. Priorities initalics are supportedby current
or programmed investment operations.


                 111.CAS STRATEGYAND ECONOMIC SECTORWORK
17.      The Bank's strategy is to support the country'sown developmentstrategy and
priorities. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (FY05-08) approved inJanuary 2005
includes a strategic program o f lending and non-lending services to support the three main



                                                             8

pillars of the Government's plan "Safe Country 2004-2009. The central component of the
Bank's assistance strategy i s a programmatic series of Development Policy Loans (DPL) to
support the Saca Government's medium term development strategy to accelerate broad
based growth. The DPLs would provide quick-disbursing budget support in line with
policy performance and would allow the Government to reduce its external financing costs
by partially replacing higher cost bonds issued in the international capital markets. The
series of DPLs will be balanced by selective investment lending in key areas where the
Bank has global expertise and/or which build upon prior successful implementation of
innovative operations in El Salvador (e.g. education, social protection, competitiveness,
land administration, environmental services), and which complement activities of other
partners.

18.     In order to be responsiveto the Government's needs the CAS also includes a
program of regional and country specific AAA. Over the last few years, the Bank made
a significant investment in the delivery of economic sector work to El Salvador, including
preparation of the five core diagnostic reports, follow up to the FSAP and a Corporate
Social Responsibility Framework. The recent Country AAA Assessment for El Salvador
by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the program as highly satisfactory overall,
noting that the program responded to the Government's policy agenda, that tasks were
timely and took into account the political cycle, and that the work focused on key issues
and brought analytical depth that was highly respectedby the Government authorities and
many stakeholders. Overall, the Assessment concluded that the AAA program made a
substantial intellectual contribution to the structure of thinking about reforms and that the
work has also contributed to changing the Government's traditional reluctance to borrow
from the Bank. Most importantly, this analytic body of work has underpinned the design of
the Development Policy LoanProgram.

19.     In support of Pillar I Accelerating broad-based equitable economic growth.
                                 -
The main support to the Government's policy agenda under this pillar i s a series of up to
four DPLs, in support of key actions of the growth program. Other actions in support of
this pillar include an investment project to support SMEs in taking advantage of DR-
CAFTA opportunities, technical assistance to develop and implement a debt management
strategy, the Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) completed in FY05 and the ongoing
Recent Economic Developments in Infrastructure Report, RED1(FY06) which i s focused
on assessing El Salvador's electricity, telecommunications, transport (roads, ports, airports
and urbantransport), and water and sanitation sectors.

20.     Insupport ofPillar 2 Improvingequity through buildinghumancapital and
                                 -
enhancing access to basic socioeconomic infrastructure and markets. The CAS is
supporting the Government's strategy to improve equity through the implementation of
ongoing operations inthe education and health sectors, the development of new investment
operations for secondary education and land administration and selected economic and
sector work, analytical and advisory services, grants and technical assistance.




                                               9

21.        In support of Pillar 3 -Enhancing security and reducing vulnerability.
Improving security i s a key pillar in the Government's development plan. The vision of a
"Safe Country" encompasses a broad definition of security, including improved physical
safety, increased investor security through initiatives to combat corruption and increase
transparency and greater public confidence in public institutions including the judiciary.
The Government plans to reduce vulnerability through the development of a social
protection program for poor households and improvement of environmental and disaster
management. The Bank i s providing support to the Government in reaching its goals
though ongoing projects for judicial reform and modernization of the state, and three new
investment operations in social protection, public sector management and environmental
services. Most notably, the Bank's new social protection loan i s designed to support the
path-breaking "Red Solidaria" Program, launched in March of 2005 as a comprehensive
safety net for the poorest Salvadoran families in depressed areas of the country (see Box
1).
                                       Box 1. The RedSolidaria Program
InMarch 2005, the Government launchedthe Red Solidaria Program, an integratedprogram of targeted
investments aimed at strengtheningthe capacity, productivity, andincome of the extremepoor. To achieve
i t s aims, the program focuses on addressingboth demand- and supply-side barriers to basic social service
access amongthe poorest Salvadorans livinginruralareas. Infocusing on strengtheningthe humancapital
of the poorest Salvadorans, the objectives of the program include: (i)        ensuring access to basic education
from pre-school through 6" grade; (ii)      ensuring access to a package of basic healthand nutrition services,
with specialemphasis onthe healthand well-being of young children and mothers; and (iii)          improving poor
children's nutritional status. The program also includes initiatives to improve the productivity and incomes
of the poorestSalvadoranhouseholds.
The Red Solidaria program i s designed as an integrated, multi-sectoral strategy with three main prongs.
The first two prongsfocus on strengtheningthe humancapital of the poor:
           Red Solidaria a la Familia (Family Solidarity Network) will establish a program of conditional
           cash transfers (CCT) for the most disadvantaged Salvadoran families living in the 100 poorest
           municipalities. These transfers, paid to the mother of the family, will be made in return for the
           family fulfilling a series of "co-responsibilities" that involve sendingprimary school-agedchildren
           to school and completing a number of preventive health and nutrition measures (e.g.,
           immunization, child growth monitoring, etc.).
           Red de Servicios Ba`sicos (Network of Basic Services) i s being designed to complement and
           enhance the efficacy of the CCT program by strengthening the provision of basic education,
           health, and nutritional services in El Salvador's poorest 100 rural municipalities. The Red de
           Servicios Bdsicos also includes strategic infrastructure investments in the poorest municipalities,
           including (i)  investments in potable water, sanitation facilities, and electricity for rural primary
           schools and public health units, and (ii)investment in roads, bridges and other infrastructure to
           facilitate greater and less costly access to schools and health service facilities by the extreme poor
           inthese areas.
The thirdprong focuses on efforts to increasethe productivity and incomes of the extreme poor:
           Red de Sostenibilidad a la Familia (Family Sustainability Network) will involve small scale
           productive projects and micro-credit programs to support poor agricultural producers in the 100
           municipalities in increasing their economic productivity and incomes, diversifying their incomes
           sources, andimproving their economic management.
At the request of the Government, the World Bank andthe IADBare providingtechnical support as well as
partialfiancing for the first two prongs of the program, along with support for the Government efforts
underthe Red Solidaria to enhancethe legal security of the poor.




                                                           10

22.     The CAS encompasses other significant analytic work, including the Country
Environmental Assessment (CEA) and Poverty and Social Impact Analyses (PSIA).
The latter are gearedto support key reforms supportedthe DPL series, ensuring that social
impacts are identified and appropriate mitigating actions undertaken. The first PSIA was
carried out in the first half of 2005, providing a detailed analysis of the potential income
and welfare impact of DR-CAFTA tariff reductions on producers and consumers and
incorporated into a chapter of the regional DR-CAFTA report that was widely
disseminated (see further discussion of findings in section In).    A second PSIA focused
on the distributive impact of the recent fiscal reforms. The ongoing CEA aims to analyze
the efficiency and effectiveness of El Salvador's environmental policy and institutional
framework to address current and future environmental issues with special emphasis on
those arisingfrom trade liberalization and infrastructure investments.

                               IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN

A. PROGRESSINTHEBROAD-BASEDGROWTHAGENDA
23.     As stated at the outset of this document, the central component of the Bank's
assistance strategy in El Salvador is a programmatic series of Development Policy
Loans @PL) to support the Saca Government's medium-term development strategy
to accelerate broad based and equitable economic growth. The DPL series i s intended
to contribute to the Government's objectives of (i)  reignitinggrowth, particularly through
increased private investment and trade, (ii)reinforcing macroeconomic stability and
strengthening fiscal sustainability, and (iii)increasing the efficiency and transparency of
public sector management. Following the medium term framework laid out in DPL I--
underpinned by the substantial body of analytic work carried out by the Bank in
partnership with the Government of El Salvador, the design of key prior actions, triggers
and indicators for DPL I1support actions ineach area. This second DPL operation focuses
mostly on addressing fiscal issues and strengthening the international trade and business
environment, drawing on the CEM, the PER, the DR-CAFTA study, and the Investment
Climate Assessment. It also includes follow up actions in public financial management
and procurement regulations, to ensure gradual implementation of measures identified in
the CFAA andCPAR.

24.     Progress has been steady in all areas, with satisfactory completion of virtually
all triggers listed inAnnex 2 of DPL I(see Table 2). Actions aimed at reigniting growth
include ratification of DR-CAFTA, approval of a Consumer Protection Law and
presentation of framework legislation for securitization. Those aimed at fiscal
consolidation include measures related to expanding tax revenues (approval of legislation
to increase excise taxes), issuing a budget formulation policy consistent with medium term
macro targets, and reducing contingencies arising from the financial sector by tightening
provisioning standards. The third area supports public sector modernization efforts, with
emphasis in the areas of procurement (issuance of implementing regulations for
Procurement law), e-Government (launch of payments portal and publication of
Government acquisitions) and public financial management (finalization of the project for
internal control systems regulation by the Ministry of Finance). DPL I1 puts special
emphasis on the first and second areas, with special attention to international trade,



                                             11

investment climate and fiscal consolidation. Future DPLs would add greater emphasis on
progress in strengthening the financial sector and on spurring new investments in key
infrastructure. The entire program i s expected to support actions in public sector
modernization. The updated medium term policy framework i s included inAnnex 2.

                                           Table 2. DPL I1actions
            Original triggers                       Government actions             Comments
    Reigniting Growth
    0Ratification of DR-CAFTA and launch           0 Met
        of programs to ensurebroad
        participation inits benefits.
    0Actions taken to improve market                 Met
        performance, including the
        presentationto Assembly of
        ConsumerProtectionLaw (approved
        August 2005).
    0Securitization and MutualFundsLaws            0 PartiallyMet            Presentationof Mutual
        presentedto Assembly.                        Securitization Law      Fundslaw to Assembly
                                                     presented to Assembly.  expectedearly 2006.
                                                     MutualFundsLawunder
                                                     preparation
    Macroeconomic Stability and Fiscal
    Consolidation
     Proposalto increaseexcisetaxes               b  Met
        presentedto Assembly (approved
        January 2005) .
    0Issuebudget formulation policy for 2006       DMet
        consistent with aNFPS deficit target
        of 2.3% of GDP (issuedApril 2005)
     Financial Supervision Law has been           b Law under preparation,   Postponedto DPL Ill
        presentedto Assembly, consistent            stakeholderconsultation
        with FSAP recommendationsrelated            expectedearly 2006,
        to consolidated supervision and             presentationto Assembly
        strengtheningof supervisory power.          inthe first halfof 2006
    0New rules havebeenissuedon loan                 Met
        classification andprovisioning, and
        on credit risk administration,
        consistent with internationalbest
        practices.
    Public SectorManagement
     0   Issuanceof implementing                  b Met
         regulationsfor ProcurementLaw
     0   Progress inimplementing the e-           b Met
         Government strategy as evidenced
         by the launch of the paymentsportal,
         and the module for publicationof
         Governmentacquisitions
         FurtherprogressinPFM                       Met
         improvement program as evidenced
         by the finalization of the project for
         internal control systems regulation
         by the Ministry of Finance.




                                                     12

25.       Overall, the achievement of the actions highlighted in Table 2 guaranteesthat
the program is on track in all areas. While the presentation and final approval of the
Financial Supervision and Mutual Funds Law are now expected to take place in coming
months (see below), delays in these fronts should not affect substantially the chances of
meeting medium term targets. The following sections present a richer discussion of recent
progress in the policy areas of the plan, as well as future plans that underpinthe proposed
triggers for the next operation (Table 3).

                                        Table 3. DPL I11triggers

                                         MacroeconomicStability and
           Reigniting Growth                FiscalConsolidation          Public SectorManagement


 0 PrepareConcessionsagreementfor        02005 NFPS deficit at or         At least 20 public
    Acajutla Port and presentto           below 3% of GDP and             institutions usethe
    Assembly.                             budget formulation policy for   Dissemination Module
 0 Finalize study for the CargoAirport    2007 issuedconsistentwith a     (MODDIV) of the E-
    Terminal of Comalapa.                 NFPS deficit of 2.2% of GDP     Procurementsystemfor
 0 Progress inthe investmentclimate       or lower.                       public management andto
    a.agenda as illustrated by e.g.,     0Financial SupervisionLaw        provide relevant
       Competition and Consumer           has beenpresentedto             informationon purchases
   b.ProtectionAgenciesCentrode
                            inoperation   Assembly, consistent with       and contracts.
       Creation of anew                   FSAP recommendations            Furtherprogressinthe
    Tramites Empresarialesoutside of      relatedto consolidated          PFM modernization
    San Salvador                          supervisionand strengthening    agenda, as evidencedby
 0  Progress inthe trade andFDI           of supervisorypower.            the expansionof the
    facilitation agenda, as illustrated   Bankshavebegun                  operation of the integrated
    by e.g.:                             0                                financial management
    a. Facilitate an averageof at least   implementing the credit rating  system(SAW to six
       2 new foreign investment           methodology prescribedby        additional entities,
       projectsper monthby PROESA         the new provisioning rule.      includingthe social
    b. Presentationto Assembly of                                         security administration.
       package of legal amendments
       required to ensureconsistency
        with DR-CAFTA provisions

1. ACCELERATINGBROAD-BASEDGROWTH

26.       The new Government's growth agenda is anchored around the recent
approval and implementation of the U.S.-Central America-Dominican Republic Free
Trade Agreement OR-CAFTA) to reinforce its outward-development strategy, along
with the complementary agenda of policy and institutional reforms to ensure that El
Salvador can fully benefit from the opportunities of trade and greater integration into the
world economy. Key complementary actions include measures to facilitate the expansion
of trade and investment levels, improvements in the investment climate, addressing
infrastructure investment and services, promoting innovation and technology, as well as
bolstering the educational levelof the labor force.




                                                  13

Trade
27.      The Salvadoran Assembly ratified DR-CAFTA in December 2004, making El
Salvador the first country to ratify this landmark agreement. DR-CAFTA i s a
comprehensive agreement that commits partner countries to eliminate virtually all trade
tariffs and to enforce and improve transparency in areas of regulation such as investment
protection, intellectual property rights and procurement. A recent DR-CAFTA regional
Bank report concluded that the agreement is likely to improve growth levels across Central
America, due to the expected positive effects on trade and investment levels (see Box 2).
Implementation on a bilateral basis i s expected to start on January 1`` 2006, following
ratificationby the U.S. CongressinJuly 2005.

                             Box 2. DR-CAFTA Impact on CentralAmerica
~




The recent Bank report "DR-CAFTA: Challenges and Opportunities for Central America" (June 2005)
provides a preliminary assessment of DR-CAFTA, with particular attention to three key themes: (i)
expected trade and non-trade benefits, (ii) that Central American countries need to pursue to
                                              actions
capitalize on the new opportunities, and (iii)   identification of the population groups that will require
assistanceto adapt to amore competitive environment.

The report concludes that DR-CAFTA is likely to improve growth levels, due to the expected positive
effects on trade and investment levels. Greater trade levels will arise due to the removal of virtually all
tariff and quota barriers to trade among all parties, consolidating -- and expanding in some areas -- the
preferential market access that Central American countries have enjoyed in U.S. markets through the
Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI) program. DR-CAFTA should also promote greater levels of foreign and
domestic investment, by improving the certainty of market access inthe U.S., solidifying broad economic
reforms of recent years and by spurring further reform efforts. Investors should respond positively to the
modernization of key regulations inthe areas of trade inservices, Governmentprocurement and intellectual
property rights, -- includingprovisions for greatertransparency in Government regulations - which will be
made more credible underDR-CAFTA commitments.

However, analyses of the gains from trade suggest that these gains depend on the ability of economies to
successfully adjust to changes in relative prices and the ensuing restructuring of the economy. Hence, the
magnitude of the benefits from DR-CAFTA will depend critically on the ability of the Central American
economies to pursue a complementary policy agenda, with special emphasis on trade facilitation (e.g.,
ports, roads, customs), institutional and regulatory reforms (e.g. transparency, rule of law, red tape), and
innovation and education that should foster greater investment flows. The report also analyzes potential
effects on producersof sensitiveagricultural goods and proposes policy options to assist vulnerable groups.
Source: "DR-CAFTA: Challenges andOpportunitiesfor CentralAmerica", June 2005, TheWorld Bank.


28.      The Government is moving quickly with a complementary agenda to DR-
CAFTA in order to obtain maximum benefits. While virtually the entire spectrum of
growth policies are in a broad sense part of this complementary agenda, specific actions
are being taken to facilitate the expansion of trade and investment levels. The Government
expects to present to the Assembly in the coming months a package of legal amendments
to make current frameworks consistent with DR-CAFTA requirements. In addition it i s
working on further simplification of import/export processes through the creation of a one-
stop shop for obtaining all import and export related permits and licenses (expected by mid
2006). Facilitation of intra-Central America trade is also proceeding in parallel through
harmonization and integration of customs procedures. El Salvador has led efforts in the
region by standardizing forms and processes and launching the interconnection of customs
offices with those in Guatemala, a process which has reduced border crossing of cargo to 3


                                                      14

to 8 minutes, on average. As explained below, El Salvador i s also prioritizing investments
and reform in secondary education as a key input to preparing its labor market for the
challenges of DR-CAFTA.

29.      The Government is also redoubling efforts to attract new investors by the
Investment and Export Promotion Agency (PROESA) in order to capitalize on new
trade and investment opportunities that will arise from DR-CAFTA. PROESA's
efforts have focused on facilitating new investments and expansion of establishedplants in
a range of sectors including light manufacturing, electronics, textiles, apparel and business
process outsourcing (BPO)/call centers. In the important apparel and textile sector,
PROESA has also undertaken vertical promotion to encourage higher valued added
investments. I t i s also deepening efforts to attract investment to new sectors and high
valued added operations by, inter alia, the agency's increased promotion activities in call
centers and light manufacturing. Over the period from January 2005 to April 2006
PROESA expects to facilitate 17 new foreign direct investment projects and at least 9
expansions.Preliminarycalculations suggest these investments will amount to over $200m
and could generatebetween 7,000 and 8,000 direct jobs and 10,000 to 14,000 indirectjobs.

30.      The strategy assigns a central role to ensuring that the benefits of new trade
opportunities are accessible to SMEs, both directly through access to export markets and
indirectly by developing strategic linkages with FDIand local exporting companies. The
Government i s expanding its programs to allow SMEs to gain access to market
intelligence, establish export contacts, adopt and adapt technologies, and improve quality.
Special focused efforts are disseminating information on requirements to access the U.S.
market, and to provide technical assistance to overcome technical barriers to trade and
sanitary and phytosanitary standards. Programs contributing to these efforts include the
Infocentros Network; the "BONOMYPE", a training instrument; the funds for technical
assistance support ("FAT and FOEX"); and programs to promote SME association. To
deepen support for the SME sector, the Government has requested a World Bank loan to
finance the Project "Ensuring SME Participation in International Trade" (ESPRIT), aimed
at fostering SME competitiveness by promoting innovation, quality upgrading, and
exports, for which a PHRD grant in an amount of US$ 500,000 from the Government of
Japanhas been obtained.

Investment Climate

31.      In the area of market performance, the Government is putting forward
actions to improve the legal and institutional framework for regulation of
competition. In December 2004, the Government obtained approval of a Competition
Law which will bolster efforts to improve the functioning of some markets and reduce the
incidence of monopolistic practices. Moreover, in August 2005, new legislation was
approved to modernize and streamline procedures in the area of consumer protection,
which will allow the Government to strengthen the Consumer Protection Agency to
enforce legislation and ensure that public utilities have inplace proper channels to receive,
process, and respond to legitimate complaints. Preparations are underway to bolster the
institutions that oversee both of these areas as well as to issue the implementing
regulations the new legislationoperational, with the creation of a new Competition Agency


                                             15

slated for the first quarter of 2006. Government plans also include further work to
complete the processof modernization of all public registries and of the legal framework in
areas such bankruptcy, movable assets and e-commerce.

32.     The Government has made important progress in improving business
registration procedures and reducing the time and cost of doing business in El
Salvador. As presentedin"Doing Businessin 2006", the country i s a leading reformer this
year, slashing the time to start up a business from 115 to 40 days. This i s in great part a
result of the opening in early 2005 of a single registration window (Centro de Tramites
Empresariales, CTE) for SMEs, in collaboration with the SME support agency
(CONAMYPE), which was a policy action supported in DPL I.         Recent progress includes
an agreement with the National Registry to register trademarks and patents at the CTE.
Preparations are underway for the opening of an additional CTE inthe first half of 2006 in
San Miguel to facilitate decentralization of services to SMEs.

33.     The Government launched an ambitious strategy ("E-Pais") to promote the
use of informationand communication technologies(ICTs) in July 2005. E-Pais seeks
to foster the use of internet by business and the public at large and to improve the
competitiveness of the Salvadoran broadly. E-Pais will focus inits first stage inconnecting
public schools to the Internet, the development of electronic Government projects
(including on-line public procurement tools and on-line Government payments systems -
see below in section on procurement and e-Government), and in the drafting a new legal
and institutional framework for ICTs. Managed by a Presidential Commission with
representatives from Government, the Private Sector and Academia, the program will
coordinate all the Government initiatives inthe area of ICTs, including attraction of FDIto
the sector as well as the support of localproducers andservice providers.

34.     To further develop capital markets, the Government developed a proposal to
create a new legal framework for securitization which was presented to the Assembly
in October 21 2005, with approval expected to follow shortly. Preparation of a similar
framework for mutual funds has taken longer than expected, due to the need to
accommodate within the new legal framework the existing portfolio management services
presently provided by the banking system ("administracih de cartera"), by designing and
adopting a suitable transitional mechanism. The presentation of this legal framework to the
Assembly is currently programmed to take place before the end of 2005. New frameworks
for securitization and mutual funds should facilitate financing for new ventures by
providing clear norms for the development of standard contracts tradable in liquid
secondary markets, along with a regulatory and supervisory setup that provides predictable
enforcement of those contracts. Plans for 2006 include the development of a new legal
framework for the use of movable assets and the creation of a Movable Assets Registry at
the Centro Nacional de Registros (CNR).

Infrastructure
35.     In infrastructure, the Government has recognized the need for an ambitious
agenda that spurs growth on the basis of a second generation of reforms and
investments. Through the 199O's, El Salvador's reconstruction program benefited from


                                              16

relatively high levels of expenditure in infrastructure (2 to 3% of GDP), private sector
investment in power and telecommunications, rapidly expanding connectivity in all
utilities and the creation of a strong roadmaintenanceprogram. Inparallel, major reforms
were initiated in power, telecommunications, roads and port services.                       Since 2001,
however, infrastructure investment has fallen sharply both as a percentage of public
investment (46% in 2001 to 30% in 2004) and as a percentage of GDP (2.8% to 1.2%),
with the largest drop inthe water and sanitation area.3

36.      The Government is taking actionsto returnto higher levels of investment with
new donor-financed programs inwater, electricity and roads (IADB) as well as ports
(Japan). Recent Economic Development in Infrastructure Report, REDI, i s assisting the
Government in designing its infrastructure development agenda. This Bank report i s
carrying out a comprehensive assessment of El Salvador's electricity, telecommunications,
transport (roads, ports, airports and urban transport), and water and sanitation sectors.
Preliminary findings from the REDI are contributing to an agenda centered around a
second-generationof reforms, which i s expected to rely inits early stages on strengthening
of regulatory frameworks and institutions, as well as leveraging the private sector for new
investments and more efficient operations. Key priorities include the concessioning of the
port of Acajutla and cargo operations at Comalapa Airport, the development of the new
deep-seaport (Cutuco) and empowerment of the newly createdregulatory agencies for the
maritime and aviation sectors. Inroads, the Government intends to continue to improve the
main road network under the Road Maintenance Fund (FOVIAL) program and to utilize
donor funds for the development of a northern corridor connecting traditionally poor rural
communities with markets4. In water, plans are underway for clarifying roles and
responsibilities of the many agencies involvedinthe sector and adopting new legislation to
decentralize and open markets by promoting participation by communities and public-
private associations. Inenergy, the priority i s to strengthenthe institutionalcapacity of the
Superintendent of Energy and Telecommunications (SIGET), review the framework under
which the electricity market is currently working to ensure competitive and fair pricing and
develop plans for the regional inter-connection of the Central American grid.

37.      Government actions in 2005 have focused on improving the productive sub-
sectors of transport. Preparation for the concession of the Port of Acajutla i s underway
and the Government anticipates the transaction to be concluded in the first half of 2006.
The bid documents for Acajutla are presently being prepared by the port and airport
authority, CEPA, as i s preliminaryfeasibility work for concessioning the cargo terminal of
the International Airport. In addition, the Port of Cutuco, the multi-use greenfield facility
inLa Union Bay, is now under construction. The passagelast year of new maritime and
aviation laws has led to the creation of sector regulators for each of those areas of
transport. This focus on the governance and efficiency of the main trade corridors and
logistics nodes should help improve El Salvador's competitiveness inthe years ahead. The
Government i s also investigating the potential for private sector involvement in under

 Water connectivity has actually decreased over this period of time as the increase in household numbers i s
    outstripping the number of new connections.
  The government expects to present a large project to the Millennium Challenge Account which would
    fiiance part of the costs of building the northern corridor road along with complementary social and
    productive programsaimedto improve welfare levels inthis lagging areaof the country.


                                                    17

funded areas of infrastructure such as wastewater treatment, new power plant production
and major highway linkages.

38.     A new law creating the fund for disaster prevention and mitigation
(FOPROMID) was approved in August, aimed at providing a better system for
managing fiscal contingencies arising out of natural shocks. The legislation provides
seed capital of $4 million for the Fund, which i s expected to maintain liquid assets to be
used in case of national emergencies. A parallel law establishing a new framework for the
managementof natural disaster managementwas also approved, upgrading outdated norms
(dating to 1976) which hadproven defective. The new law creates the National Emergency
Committee, with authority to compel evacuations and forbid construction in high risk
areas. The new legal framework was tested in October 2005 with the eruption of
Ilamatepec volcano and the heavy rains associated with Hurricane Stan with positive
results.

Innovation

39.     As diagnosed in the Bank's recent CEM, El Salvador has been trailing in the
area of innovation and technology. Inparticular, the country i s lagging in its efforts to
develop an effective National Innovation System (NIS). By international standards, El
Salvador underperforms in innovation outcomes (e.g., patents, scientific publications) as a
result of a very low level of R&D investment in comparison to countries of similar size
and level of development, despite evidence of highpotential rates of return to this type of
investment. This inefficiency i s in great part due to the lack of collaboration between the
private sector and researchorganizations.

40.     Progress has been made in the development and formulation of a new policy
for innovation and technological development in close collaboration with the private
sector. In May 2005 the Ministry of the Economy created the "Innovation Promotion
Group" (GPI), in charge of coordinating the activities of the various Government agencies
involved in activities associated with the promotion of innovation and technology
adoption, inline with recommendations made earlier inthe year by the Bank's Investment
Climate Assessment report. The GPI i s also charged with providing the guidelines for the
development of a national innovation policy, and helping create the conditions for the
strengthening of the Salvadoran National Innovation System. The GPI i s presided by the
Ministry of the Economy and includes representatives of the Ministry of Education, the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, the F D I promotion agency (PROESA),
CONACYT (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia) and INSAFOFU? (Instituto
Salvadoreiio de Formaci6n Profesional). Several Universities and private sector
organizations (e.g. AS1 and FUSADES) are also represented. The GPI i s being presented
as the seed of a future national technology council that the Government would formally
create to oversee the country's innovation policy and act as an advisory committee to the
Project ImplementationUnit of the ESPRITproject that will receive Bank funding.

41.     With the help of GPI, the Government is currently designingplans to (i)       adopt
a more clear policy framework; (ii)  improve cooperation and coordination between public
and private sector initiatives; (iii) clarify the role and strengthen the capacity of the


                                             18

National Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT); and (iv) define and put in
place more effective instruments to support of private sector technological innovations,
adoptions and dissemination. The new policy aims to establish an efficient National
Innovation and Technology System that will be instrumental in boosting the
competitiveness of the Salvadoran private sector. A fund to promote innovation and new
technology through matching funds i s under discussion. Other policies under evaluation
include modificationof accounting rules to allow for capitalization and fast depreciation of
R&D expenses.

Education and Labor Force Competitiveness

42.    Despite considerable progress in education, El Salvador faces critical
challenges to foster an educatedlabor force as a necessaryinput to economic growth,
competitivenessand poverty reduction. This is a particular exigency in the face of DR-
CAFTA as anticipated reforms in the areas of liberalized trade regimes, growing FDIand
increased economic integration put a premiumon improving access to quality schooling to
ensure an educated labor force. A number of studies, including the Bank's recent CEM,
have posited that a population with full secondary education i s key to boosting
competitiveness and GDP inan increasingly technological world.

43.    Yet El Salvador faces an education deficit in secondary education, as well as
issues of quality and equity. Compared to countries with similar GDP per capita, El
Salvador underperfoms on secondary enrollment and completion, despite outperforming
similar countries on these measures at the pre-primary and primary level. There are also
issues of quality, reflected in low returns to lower secondary education, coupled with
limited access and low completion rates among poorer students.                 Finally, low
unemployment rates (about 4%) and high and growing rates of return to upper secondary
education graduates (12% versus a LAC average of 8%) suggest a low supply of secondary
graduates and a high demand for them on the labor market. Full participation in a
knowledge economy, innovation and technological advancement require a labor force with
advanced skills, inparticular a population that has at least completed secondary education,
with a group of highlyskilled individuals with tertiary education.

44.     The Government's established education priorities outlined in its long-term
education strategy, Plan 2021, address these issues. The policy supports increased,
broad-based educational attainment and the improved quality and relevance of secondary
education. This is to be achieved through (i)      the development of a competency-based
curriculum; (ii) the increased use of English and technology to promote integration; (iii)
improved monitoring, evaluation and accreditation systems; (iv) strengthenededucational
management and school autonomy; and (v) expanded access to secondary education.
While the programmatic DPL series does not address these priorities specifically, they
form a critical part of the actions required to reignite growth in El Salvador for which the
Bank i s directly supporting government efforts through a new secondary education project
currently underpreparation.




                                              19

2. RESTORINGSOUNDFISCALFRAMEWORK
                A

Recent actions and preliminary results
45.     The need to stem the increase in debt levels is a top priority of the Saca
administration as formulated in "Safe Country" and in the macroeconomic medium
term plan. This plan includes measures designed to lower the fiscal deficit and reduce
debt levels below 40% of GDP by the end of the presidential term (2009), while at the
same time protecting and eventually increasing critical social and growth expenditures. As
a result of the relatively small size of overall expenditures and the need to accommodate
the transitional costs of pension reform, the emphasis of the Government's proposed fiscal
adjustment relies on increasing tax revenues and to address contingent liabilities in the
financial sector. Current plans are to increase tax revenues by 2.7% of GDP by 2009 from
its 2004 level of 12.2% of GDP (see Table 5).

46.     The Saca administration has taken important fiscal steps in 2004 and 2005
intended to reduce public sector deficits and public debt levels. Inorder to bring down
fiscal imbalances to end further debt accumulation, the Government obtained approval of
reforms based on a combination of improved tax collection efforts, broadening of tax
bases, elimination of loopholes, increased excise tax rates and a fiscal amnesty. As part of
these efforts, in January 2005 the Assembly approved increases in excise taxes on
cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, beer, guns, ammunitions and fireworks. Receipts from
higher excises will be used to fund the Health Sector Fund (FOSALUD), aimed at
increasing health coverageinthe poorest regions of the country.

47.     Recent tax collectionsdata suggest that the results of the recent fiscal reforms
will meet expectations in 2005. Projections made with June 2005 data indicate that the
yield of the aggregatepackage of fiscal reforms is likely to reach $217m, surpassinginitial
projections by near $20m. The more positive outlook i s due ingreat part to greater success
in collections associated with the fiscal amnesty ($47 million versus projected $12
million), which compensatesfor the lower than expectedrevenues from excises associated
with the later than expected approval of the reform, the build up of stocks prior to its
implementation and some increase in contraband. Table 4 presents a breakdown of the
revised estimated fiscal yield for 2005. The total yield of the reform i s expected to reach
1.3% of GDP (compared to 1.2% of GDPpresentedinthe DPLIdocument).

                    Table 4. ExpectedYield of Tax Reformsasof June 2005
                                                       Expected    Percent
                Area                                  Yield ($m)  Of GDP*
                Tax CodeReforms                          51.1        0.30
                IncomeTax Law Reforms                    15.2        0.09
                Value Added Tax Reforms                  31.7        0.19
                Tax Administrationefforts                57.7        0.34
                FiscalAmnesty                           47.0         0.28
                ExciseTaxes                              14.0        0.08
                *Total                                  216.7        1.28
                 GDP(est.) $16,868 million.



                                              20

48.     Updated fiscal projections suggest that the fiscal deficit is expected to close
below the 3.0% GDP target by end 2005. Current revenues are expected to be 0.4%
higher than inDPL Iprojections due mainly to greater than expecteddividends from state
owned enterprises. However, tax revenues are expected to reach 13.0% of GDP (versus
13.3% projected inDPL Idocument), despite success with fiscal reform efforts, as a result
of lower than expected collections from import tariffs and gasoline taxes (due to lower
consumption, as evidenced by a decline in oil import volumes). Broad expenditure targets
are currently expected to be met, with capital expenditures showing a slight decline of
0.2% with respect to projections (due to unanticipated delays incontracting public works),
and current expenditures coming in 0.2% above projections, partly as a result of higher
than expected electricity and liquid gas subsidies and the temporary transportation subsidy
(motivated by higher oil prices) that i s expectedto remain inplace untilmid-2006.

49.     Markets have reacted positively to the strong fiscal and growth performance
of recent months, facilitating Government efforts to meet its financing needs. A
placement of 30 year Eurobonds for $375m was successfully floated in May at 7.65%. An
additional $27m infive year bonds were placed inthe local market inJuly at a coupon rate
of 5.75%. Financing needs for the year were completed with congressional approval by
mid-August of multilateralloans for $200 million, including the Bank's first Broad-Based
Growth DPL. Going forward, the authorities are implementing steps to improve the
management of both external and domestic liabilities, with the aim of assuring debt
sustainability, reducing cost within prudent levels of risk and developing the domestic debt
market. At the request of the Government, the Bank has prepared a Debt Management
Needs Assessment Report. The authorities have identifiedpriority areas and are discussing
with the Bank the need for a fee-based Technical Assistance program for the
implementation of the recommendations. Moreover, in collaboration with the Bank's
Treasury Department, the Government is considering the possibility of signing a Master
Derivative Agreement (MDA), in order to improve the risk management of its external
debt.
Financial sector actions

50.     Significant progress has been made in addressing financial sector
contingencies by the issuance of new rules on loan classification and on credit risk
administration in October 2005 as recommended by the Bank's Financial Sector
Assessment. While previous norms allowed for some degree of subjectivity in risk
assessments and the valuation of collateral, the new rules establish more objective criteria,
including the use of past-due terms as criteria for portfolio classification of all loan types
and restrictions to the use of loan restructuring or use of poorly valued guarantees to avoid
downgrade of non-performing loans. The new rules will be applied gradually, and should
lead to an orderly recapitalization (or restructuring) process.

51.     Progress has been less rapid in the finalization of a new draft framework for
financial sector supervision. Draftlegislation has been prepared by the CentralBank for a
new Financial Supervision Law, aimed at strengthening supervisory power, including the
regulation of financial conglomerates. The Bank team has reviewed the draft positively,



                                              21

and has verified the existence of seemingly broad consensus among key stakeholders, such
as the existing regulatory and supervisory agencies, and the supervised institutions.
However, the Government has decided to extend the period of consultations and delay
presentation to the Assembly until the end of the year. The team feels that this i s a wise
decision, given the importance of securing that the proposed new institutional scheme i s
fully consistent with the generalframework of Administrative Law inElSalvador, andthat
there is no real urgency to enact this reform given the existence of an already functional
supervisory framework. Going forward, progress is also being made on a strategy to
transform public banks into vehicles of a fiduciary nature, with no access to third party
funds, with implementation of first steps slatedfor 2006.

Medium-term prospects
52.     The Government has submitted a 2006 budget to the Assembly that is broadly
on track with the medium term goal of reducing debt levels to below 40% of GDP in
2009. Total expenditures are projected at 19.3% of GDP (in line with DPL Itargets),
despite the inclusion of a 6% wage increase for public employees (the first in6 years). The
projected decline of 0.5% of GDP in current expenditures in 2006 with respect to 2005 i s
explained by reductions in current transfers for the electricity and gas subsidies (0.2% of
GDP), rationalization of VAT tax refunds (0.1% of GDP), as well as additional cuts in
purchases of goods and services inresponseto austerity measures.

53.     Bank estimates indicate that revenues are likely to meet overall targets set out
in DPL I,with non-tax revenues compensating for a slight shortfall in tax revenue
growthwith respectto projections. The shortfall i s due to (i)   lower than expected excise
revenues, (ii) lower fuel tax revenues due to lower gasoline consumption and (iii)    lower
tariff collections due to the entry into force of DR-CAFTA. Going forward, the
government i s planning to strengthen tax collection by using new administration powers
approved in the fiscal reform of 2004, that should continue to raise the tax to GDP ratio in
2006 and beyond. Specific actions include, inter alia, establishing time limits for the
recovery of tax debts, contracting special prosecutors for the recovery of unpaid tax debts,
launching of major efforts to incorporate informal sector businesses into the tax registry,
intensifying cross verifications of information generatedby the income tax with that of the
value added tax (particularly the VAT associated related to imports), and conducting cross
checks between income tax declarations prepared by corporations and individuals and the
information provided by authorized retention agents. In addition the government i s
committed to enact further actions to achieve mediumterm fiscal goals.

54.     Updated medium term projections suggest an improving outlook for the
achievement of debt targets by the end of the Saca administration (Table 5). Declining
deficits broadly in line with those projected at the time of DPL Ipreparation would now
lead to a projected 38.5% of GDP level by end-2009 (versus 39.2% in the DPL I
projections). A great share of this improvement i s explained by a lower deficit in 2005 and
the upward revisions of GDP figures related to higher growth and oil-induced inflation.
Growth i s now expected to reach 3.5% in 2007-09 (versus 3.0% projected in the DPL I
document) reflecting the greater than anticipated FDI flows in 2005 (now projected at
2.5% of GDP versus 1.5% at DPL Ipreparation) and the strong pickup in imports of



                                             22

capital goods, a result of the improved trade and investment outlook due to progress inthe
implementation of the administration's economic plan, including DR-CAFTA approval
and the credibility of fiscal management. However, while notable progress has been made,
public debt sustainability i s not assured, and the medium-term outlook still hingescritically
on the ability of the government to adhere to its 2005-07 budget targets and to limit further
build-up in public debt. To illustrate this point, the analysis included in the Debt
Sustainability Analysis (Annex 5) shows that higher fiscal deficits and lower growth (low
case) would leadto debt levels of around 43% of GDPby 2009. By contrast, a highcase in
which a more rapid fiscal adjustment along with higher overall investment and FDIflows
motivated by CAFTA could lead to higher growth and lower debt levels which would
reach near 37% of GDPby 2009.

                      Table 5. Medium Term Macroeconomic Scenario: Base Case
                                                          (as % of GDP)
                                                   2003          2004     2005   2006       2007        2008  2009
MacroeconomicIndicators
GDPgrowth (% change)                                  1.8           1.5     2.5     3.0        3.5       3.5     3.5
Inflation (end of period % change)                    2.5           5.4     4.0     3.0        2.5       2.5     2.5
ForeignDirect Investment                              1.o           2.9     2.5     2.0        2.0       2.0     2.0
Nonfinancial Public Sector
Total Revenuesand Grants                             16.8         16.9    17.3     17.0      17.7        18.2  18.6
   Currentrevenue                                    16.3         16.6    17.0     16.8      17.4        17.9  18.3
       Tax revenue                                   12.1         12.2    13.0     13.4      14.0        14.5  14.9
       Other current revenueI1                        4.2           4.4     4.0     3.3        3.4        3.4    3.4
   Capitalrevenueand grants                           0.5           0.3     0.3     0.2        0.3       0.3     0.3
Total Expenditures                                   20.5         19.3    20.1     19.3      19.5        19.7  19.9
  Currentexpenditure                                 16.9         17.0    17.0     16.5      16.4        16.4  16.4
       olw, PensionPayments                           1.7           1.9     2.2     2.2        2.2        2.2    2.2
  Capital expenditures                                3.7           2.3     3.1     2.9        3.1        3.3    3.5
     olw, Reconstructionexpenditures                  1.4           0.6     0.3     0.0        0.0        0.0    0.0
     olw, Other Public Investment                     2.3           1.7     2.8     2.9        3.1        3.3    3.5
Primary Balance                                      -1.7          -0.3    -0.5     0.0        0.8        1.1    1.3
OverallNFPSbalance                                   -3.7          -2.4    -2.8    -2.4       -1.8       -1.5   -1.3
Total NFPS Debt                                      40.7         40.6    40.9     40.9      40.3        39.5  38.5
Balanceof Payments
Current account balance                              -5.1          -3.9    -3.7    -4.0       -4.1       -4.0   -3.9
   Exportsof goods (f.0.b)                           21.1         21.0    20.9     20.7      20.6        20.8  21.0
   Importsof goods (f.0.b.)                          36.3         37.6    37.8     38.8      38.8        39.5  39.7
MemorandumItems:
GrossDomesticProduct                             14,940        15,824    16,868 17,896      18,985    20,141  21,367
 (US$ million)
OverallNFPSbalance,w/o pensions                      -2.1          -0.6    -0.9     -0.1       0.4        0.7    0.9
(% of GDP',
,.- -- ---,
Source: World Bank staff estimates based on information provided by the Ministry of Finance and Central Bank.
11 Includesnontax revenueand the operatingsurplus of public enterprises.


55.        El Salvador has coped well with rising oil prices and the external position
remains strong. Higher export commodity prices and strong investment flows have
allowed the economy to recover in 2005, despite higher oil prices. The value of crude oil
imports increased by 8% in 2004 and by 35% in the first eight months of 2005, but the



                                                                 23

strong pick up inremittances (21% in 2004 and 12% inthe first eight months of 2005) and
traditional exports (42% in the first eight months of 2005) have more than offset the oil
shock. Reflecting these trends, the current account deficit declined to 3.9% of GDP in
2004 from apeak of 5.1% of GDP in2003 and i s expectedto close at around 3.7% of GDP
in 2005. Going forward, the external balance remains sustainable (average of near 4% of
GDP for 2006-09) with oil prices expected to decline gradually from their current peaks,
while remittance flows are expected to continue to grow. These two effects offset the
anticipated decrease in world commodity prices, which are expected to affect Salvadoran
coffee and sugar exports.

56.     While higher growth should facilitate continued progressinpoverty reduction
efforts inElSalvador, it is unlikely to be enough.The Government plan also recognizes
that some of the poorest Salvadorans have been unable to take advantage of economic
growth over the past decade and require special efforts in terms of improved targeting and
additional resources in social programs. As already mentioned, the Government has
proposed to implement a social protection program aimed at improving access to basic
services and developing a safety net for the poorest and most vulnerable households (see
Box 1). In addition, the Government plans to continue to increase social spending
gradually over the next five years.

3. PUBLICSECTORFINANCIAL          MANAGEMENT

57.     Reforms in public sector modernization were started in El Salvador in 1994
and were strengthened in 1999 in order to improve service delivery, address the
overextension and centralization of the State, and reform outdated and inadequate
administrative infrastructures. Among important accomplishments in other areas, public
sector financial management was significantly strengthened through the issuance and
implementation of modernized financial management, procurement, tax and customs
legislation, and the introduction of integrated financial management and tax information
systems. These actions, in turn, have resulted in enhanced transparency, as evidenced by
the budgetary information that is increasingly putinthe public domain on a timely basis.

58.     The new Government is committed to deepening public sector modernization
efforts, as reflected inits plan "Safe Country." This agenda aims to continue to improve
the efficiency of public expenditures, strengthen governance, fight corruption and,
ultimately, create an environment more conducive to investment and g r ~ w t h .During its
                                                                                        ~
term, the administration intends to continue restructuring public sector institutions,
improving human resource management, increasing the efficiency and transparency of
resources transferred to municipalities, modernizing regulatory entities, and strengthening
the judiciary. However, in the context of the DPL program, the agreed focus i s on two
elements that are at the core of public sector reform and transparency: Government
procurement andfinancial management.




  ElSalvadorranked51out of 151countries inthelatestTransparencyInternational rankings, fourthamong
    LatinAmerican nations behind Chile, Barbadosand Uruguay.


                                                24

59.      A major reform of Government procurement processes was launched with
approval of the Law on Public Sector Procurement and Contracting (LACAP) in
May 2000. The ProcurementPolicy Office (UNAC) was establishedby the Law within the
Ministry of Finance to exercise effective leadership inpolicy development and oversight of
the Public Procurement System. To this end, UNAC has recently obtained approval by the
Council of Ministers of the 2005 Procurement Policy for the Public Sector.6Strong steps
have been taken with the issuance of the regulations to LACAP (October 2005) and the
strengthening of UNAC which has assumed its leadership role of policy development as
well as its consultative role, providing the oversight of the Public Procurement System.
The Unit i s now staffed with 14 professionals under the supervision of the Vice-Minister
of Finance. The head of the UNAC is the former chief of the UACI from the Ministry of
Public Works who is leading the unit in monitoring the compliance with the LACAP (Ley
de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones de la Administracion Publica) by all the entities subject
to the Law. UNAC has initiated a program of surveys and training of all
institutionaYministeria1 procurement units, as well as developed standard bidding
documents to be usedby all Government entities.

60.      Important initiatives in e-Government have been launched to increase
transparency and reduce the transaction costs of accessing public services. The "E-
Pais" strategy, launched in July, builds upon existing e-Government initiatives
implemented over the years, including the online payment of taxes and customs duties.
There are two elements from the strategy that directly contribute to transparency and
reduced transaction costs are being developed with the support of a Bank-financed
technical assistance loan: An online feature for the payment of a broad set of public
 services ("P@goes"), which will allow users to pay directly from the service provider's
websites using a variety of payment options, including credit cards; and a comprehensive
e-procurement system ("Comprasal"),              which will initially make information on
Government purchases available to the public and eventually allow online transactions
with suppliers.     The online payments feature was deployed jointly with one of the most
important commercial banks in time for the payment of VAT obligations in mid-October
2005, and will be further expanded with other banks and services. The information
module of Comprasal (M6dulo de Divulgaci6n -- Moddiv) was launched in September
2005 in parallel with a major training exercise for Government institutions. The strategy
for the deployment of Comprasal calls for the development of the transactional modules
duringthe first semester of 2006.

61.      The Government is also well poised to continue strengthening the public
financial management (PFM) modernization process, based upon legislation that
provides a sound framework for budget management processes. Looking forward, the
recently completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), carried out
jointly by the Bank and the IDB, identifies opportunities for improvement, such as: (i)


~~




  The CPAR had outlined key challenges in ensuring a successful implementation of the new legislation,
    including (i)
                issuing regulations to the ProcurementLaw (issued mid-October, 2005), (ii)
                                                                                         strengthening
    the capacity in all Government agencies and municipalities to carry out procurement, and (iii)
    strengthening of UNAC with additional technical staff and resources so it can exercise its effective
    leadershipinpolicy developmentand oversight.


                                                  25

gradual alignment with international good practices on fiscal transparency of budgetary
documentation, e.g. the development of a medium-term budget framework, (ii)        increased
functional and institutional coverage of the integrated financial management and payroll
management systems, (iii)    reporting, consolidation and analysis of municipal budget data,
(iv) enhanced coverage and content of external audits, and (v) more effective internal
controls. A noteworthy step in this area has been the recent Government adoption of a
framework for internal controls consistent with international standards, for which
implementation is underway. The regulations have been issued and require that eachpublic
sector entity submits to the Controller of Accounts its project of specific technical internal
control norms by September 2005, a requirement already fulfilled by the Ministry of
Finance. With this action, the DPL 2 PFM-specific trigger identifiedunder the program has
been met.

B.POVERTYAND SOCIALIMPACTS
62.     Areas of the agenda supported by this operation that may have potentially
negative social impacts have been studied and, where required, mitigation actions are
underway. Of the major components that are supported in the program, the
implementation of the DR-CAFTA agreement in 2006 has been subject to a PSIA, as it
could exert negative future impacts on the incomes of some segments of Salvadoran
society that have been hitherto protected. However, as the PSIA results demonstrate, these
potential impacts would take some time to materialize, as Central American negotiators
obtained lengthy grace periods (5 to 10 years) and gradual phase out periods for sensitive
commodities (up to 20 years). The study explored the static effects of the reduction in key
agricultural prices, and came to the conclusion that in a worst case scenario, once all duty
elimination commitments take place in 20 years, 4.1% of Salvadoran families could see
their welfare level drop by an average of 2.2%. Nearly 68% of families would see their
welfare improve while another 28% would not see a significant change. The study
recommends policy actions to protect the income of the potentially affected poor
population, including actions to facilitate upgrading of production techniques and
diversification.

63.     The Government has already launched programs to address the transition to
free trade in potentially vulnerable sectors. The Government facilitated in early 2005
the creation of an agricultural reconversion fund (Fondo de la Reconversion del Sector
Agropecuario y Agroindustrial - FOCAGRO), financed by processors of agricultural
commodities and importers, aimed at technological upgrading and substitution activities
for producers of grains and other products that could face increased competition when the
grace periods negotiated in DR-CAWA are exhausted. These actions complement
Government policies to more proactively provide key public services to agriculture, which
have been responsible for expansions in planted areas and bumper crops in 2005 in crops
like cotton, fruits and vegetables.

64.     DR-CAFTA provisions are fully consistent with El Salvador's own labor laws
and with its international commitments to protect labor rights. Together with other
DR-CAFTA countries, the Government i s designing a regional program with the
International Labor Organization to strengthen its capacity to enforce labor rights by


                                             26

modernizing the labor justice system, increasing "in situ" inspections and providing
training to the staff of the LaborMinistries.

65.      Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) on the distributive impact of the
2004-5 fiscal reforms suggest that the results on the distribution of consumption of
the changes approved intax regulations are on the whole slightly progressive, without
taking into account the more progressive expected impact of additional expenditures like
FOSALUD (e.g., health centers for low income Salvadorans) as well as the public health
effects of lower cigarette and liquor consumption. The study also notes the importance for
the poor of reforms that reduce the likelihood of future fiscal crises which could lead to
higher interest rates, lower growth and eventually greater welfare losses for the most
vulnerable. In the future, additional analytical work will be undertaken to refine the
preliminary results already set forth inthe PSIAs, as well as to assess the impact of further
actions that the government may enact inorder to achievemediumterm fiscal goals.
c. ENVIRONMENTAL NATURALAND            RESOURCES    ASPECTS

66.      The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not expected to
entail significant impacts on the environment, forests or other natural resources.
However, to the extent that measures supported by the DPL program are successful, over
time, in attracting new investment (including in infrastructure) and trade expansion, there
will be a need to strengthen El Salvador's national institutional capacity to identify and
address environmental policy and regulatory issues. With this in mind, a strategic Country
Environmental Analysis (CEA) was launched in the first semester of 2005, with final
results and recommendations expected to be delivered early in 2006 (see Box 3 for
preliminary findings). The results of the CEA can thus provide timely inputs for the
preparation of subsequent loans inthis programmatic DPL series.

67.      The CEA is assessing the regulatory and institutional framework for
environmental protection in El Salvador. While DR-CAFTA is expected to improve
enforcement of environmental norms and regulations due to explicit commitments in the
treaty to this effect, future DPL operations are expected to give more emphasis to
investments in infrastructure. Inaddition, improvements in the investment climate and the
implementation of DR-CAFTA are expected to lead to greater levels of trade and
investment, which could pose some challenges to El Salvador's capacity to manage
potential environmental risks. The ongoing CEA aims to analyze the efficiency and
effectiveness of El Salvador's environmental policy and institutionalframework to address
current and future environmental issues with special emphasis on those arising from trade
liberalization and infrastructure investments. It i s expected to identify policy and
institutional gaps and provide politically feasible and cost-effective recommendations and
will help the Government address difficult trade-offs related to (i) protecting and restoring
key environmental services essential for long-term sustainability, (ii)     rapid short-term
expansion of trade and infrastructure, (iii)   reducing logistical and regulatory costs to
improve competitiveness, and (iv) increasing social and corporate responsibility in the
stewardship of the environment to meet national, regional, and global commitments. The
CEA is being carried out in close coordination with the planned Recent Economic
Developments in Infrastructure Report (REDI) diagnostic to provide the Government with


                                             27

particular recommendations that would be relevant as it pursues new policies to spur
sustainableinfrastructure development.


          Box 3. EnvironmentalCountryAssessment Some PreliminaryFindings
                                                             -
The CEA team has found great interest and receptivity by Government authorities and other key
stakeholders on the importance of addressing the environmental aspects of trade and infrastructure
expansion. Some issues identifiedat this stage inthe CEA include:

         There i s good capacity to identity environmental problems at the Ministry of Agriculture and
         Natural Resources (MAW), butneedto strengthenmonitoring and enforcement activities.

        The main trade-environment challenges for the future include potential disputes linked to non-
         compliance of domestic environmental regulations, as well as challenges, especially to small-
         scale producers, with regards to meeting sanitary and phyto-zoo-sanitary measures in foreign
         markets.

         Water resource management i s perceived across the board as a pressing issue. This is relevant
         both for trade, as many of El Salvador's main exports are water intensive, and for infrastructure
         expansion. The Governmentis working on adraft new Water Law.



D. DESIGN DPLOF

68.     The designof this new lendingapproach takes into account the lessonslearned
from past operations in El Salvador and the latest thinking on Development Policy
Lendingfor well performingmiddle income countries. The underlying principles of this
operation are the following:

         (i) Upfrontactioninstead of ex-post conditionality: This loanhas been
        triggered by the new Government's commitment to build on the country's strong
        record of policy performance record to consolidate fiscal accounts and restore
        broad-based growth; and by specific and significant policy actions toward those
        ends.

        (ii) Supportofreformprograminsteadofspecificconditionality.TheDPL
        and the programmatic approach will support a broad Government reform program.
        Lack of reform progress in a specific area can be compensated with actions in
        others if the overallreformprogramremains on track.

        (iii)Aligning program loans with budgetary cycle. The proposed
        programmatic approach i s designed to become a predictable low cost source of
        financing for the Government.


E.M&EARRANGEMENTS
69.     The Government and the Bank will take advantage of several important data
sources to assess progressfor the DPLs,including:




                                                     28

        Central andNonfinancial public sector budget monitoring from the Ministry of
        Finance
        NationalDirectorate for Statistical and Census (DIGESTYC) reports
        Investment climate surveys
        Central Bank of ElSalvador reports and analysis
        Reviews and analysesof laws and implementing regulations from the Bank and
        other stakeholders
        Financialaudits and follow up of CPAR and CFAA recommendations
        Bank and IMFsupervision missions and reports
        Annualreports from the World Economic Forum
        Annualreports from TransparencyInternational

        The Government of El Salvador and the Bank have agreed to monitor
progress in the DPL program regularly, including at the annual reviews of CAS
progress. Discussions will be held with the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, the
main counterpart agency for the loan, who will be in charge of M&E for the loan and for
collecting from the appropriate sources the data necessary to assess implementation
progress. Other agencies that will play an important role in this process are the Central
Bank (for financial sector issues), the Ministry of Economics (for trade and investment
climate issues) and the Ministry of Finance.

71.     Semi-annual reviews will take place between the Technical Secretariat and the
Bank team aimed at identifying areas of strengths and weaknesses and possible
assistance needed to maintain momentum toward the Government's planned
medium-term outcomes and address possible downside risks. Latest information in
meeting expected targets in 2005 support the argument that the country i s makingprogress
towards medium-term outcomes targeted inAnnex 2 (see Box 4).



                    Box4. Progresstowardmeetingmedium-termoutcomes


    0   Non maquila exports (excluding coffee) in2005 (8.5% as a share of GDP) suggest that non
        maquila exports (excluding coffee) will reach9% of GDP by end 2008.

    0   FDIflows of 2.5% of GDPin2005 exceed the Government's plannedmedium-term outcomeof
        at least 1.5% of GDP inthe 2005-2008 period

    0   The fiscal reforms will yield tax revenues of 13% of GDP by end 2005, on track to meet
        expectationsfor 2008 (14.5% of GDP).

    0   The DoingBusinessReport of 2005 for ElSalvador shows areduction inthe time needed to start
        abusiness (40 days from 115 ) already passingthe objective of 70 days for 2008.




                                                    29

72.      A mid-termreview will be made inthe first quarter of 2006, when the Government
and the team will jointly evaluate progress in achieving the outcomes laid out for the
program. Indicativetargets for this mediumtermreview include:

    0    Non maquilaexports (excluding coffee) as a share of GDP at or above 8% of GDP
         by end 2005.

    0    FDIflows at least 1.5%of GDPin2005.

    0    "Centro de Trimites" created and cost of registering local businesses reduced by at
         least 50%.

         At leastone infrastructure concessionlaunched.

    0    Tax revenues at or above 13% of GDP (or its dollar equivalent before GDP
         updates) by end 2005.

    0    NFPS deficit with pensions at or below -3.0% of GDPby end 2005.

F.FIDUCIARY      ASPECTS
73.      El Salvador's fiduciary environment for DPLs is adequate. As part of the
Government's overall long-term focus on public sector modernization, significant
improvements in the performance of budget and procurement management institutions
have been made over the past decade. To document the current state of public financial
management in the country and propose priorities for action, the World Bank and the IDB
carried out in 2004 a Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) and a Country
Procurement Assessment (CPAR). While overall findings indicate that the environment i s
solid, the Government is moving ahead to further strengthen its public fiduciary control
framework, as described in Section I11of this document. In connection to this, and as part
of the DPL program, the Bank i s engaged in public financial management dialogue with
the Government to follow up on recommendations made through the CFAA and CPAR.
Drawing from this ongoing work, certain policy actions are being identified as possible
triggers for DPL 3.

G.LOAN     ADMINISTRATION
74.      Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower i s the Republic of El Salvador and
this operation i s a single-tranche loan of US$ 100 million equivalent that would be made
available upon loan effectiveness.

75.      Funds flow arrangements. The Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into an
account of the Central Reserve Bank (BCR) denominated in U S dollars, which are legal
tender in the co~ntry.~The BCR will immediately credit the disbursed amounts to the


  The IMF's most recent safeguards assessment of the BCR (stage one) concluded that the safeguards in
place appear generally adequate. The BCR subsequently made important progress in implementing the
assessment's recommendations, such as restructuring the Audit Committee, continuing its migration to
internationalfinancial reportingstandards, anddisclosingthe financial information inthe publicrealm.


                                                   30

Ministry of Finance's Treasury Single Account ("Fond0 General"),           thus becoming
available to finance budgeted expenditures. Within a week of this operation, the Ministry
will accordingly providethe Bank with a written confirmation. If,after deposit inthe BCR,
the proceeds of the Loan are not used as determined above (including use for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement), the Bank will require the Government to
promptly refundthe disallowed amount.

76.     Given that there is adequate knowledge about the soundness of central bank control
environment and the country's public financial management system, as well as
Government      commitment     to continue their     strengthening, additional    fiduciary
arrangements (such as the use of a dedicated deposit account) have not been deemed
necessaryinthis case.

H.BENEFITS

77.     The proposed DPL i s an appropriate vehicle to help meet fiscal needs, support
policy reforms to improve the outlook for economic growth and increase the efficiency and
transparency of public sector management and further strengthen the Banks relationship
with ElSalvador.

78.     Meetingfiscal needs. Disbursement (projected early in calendar year 2006) of this
proposed loan would help meet the Government's objective of diversifying financing
sources, as well as provide financing on more favorable terms than alternatives for its 2006
budget. This, in turn, would support the Government's concurrent goals of fiscal
stabilization and addressing social needs through increasedand more efficient spending.

79.     Improving the outlook for economic growth. The loan supports a broad agenda
of measures anchored around El Salvador's efforts to deepen its outward-development
agenda, including its participation in DR-CAFTA. The agenda includes key actions of the
complementary agenda of policy and institutional reforms to ensure that El Salvador can
fully benefit from the opportunities of trade and greater integration into the world
economy. Key complementary actions include measures to facilitate the expansion of
trade and investment levels, improvements in the investment climate, addressing
infrastructure investment and services, and promoting innovationand technology.

80.     Increasing the efficiency and transparency of public sector management. The
loan supports public sector modernization efforts aimed at improving the efficiency of
public expenditures, strengthen governance and fight corruption and foster with a specific
focus on government procurement and financial management. Efforts in these areas are
also expectedto foster an environment more conducive to investment and growth.

81.     Endorsement of sound policy and vehicle for dialogue. Most of the reforms
undertaken for this DPL were discussed with the Bank and were influenced by the joint
analytical work. Timely support by the Bank would also be important in forming the basis
for strong engagement with the Government on forward looking policy actions within the
framework of the recent Country Assistance Strategy. This second DPL would provide a
vehicle for continuity in policy dialogue and an ongoing source of just-in-time advice,


                                             31

analysis, technical assistance and capacity building in response to request from
Government for Bank help on the range of issues underpinning the DPL series.

I.RISKSANDMITIGATION

82.     The long-term success of the proposed operation faces various risks which can only
be partially addressed in the context of this operation and the new Country Assistance
Strategy.

83.     Fiscal risk. El Salvador's current NFPS debt burden of about 41% of GDP
projected at end 2005 increases its vulnerability to potential shocks. Given this debt level,
an increase in international interest rates poses moderate risks of unexpected additional
financing costs. As discussedinthis document, the Saca administration's plan to deal with
fiscal vulnerabilities i s moving forward successfully and rating agencies have increasingly
voiced over the year that the plan put in place to address the fiscal area would strengthen
El Salvador's hard earned creditworthiness. Incase the expected tax revenues figures are
not met according to projections, the government i s committed to pursue further fiscal
reforms if necessary in order to gradually raise tax revenues to a target of about 15% of
GDPby 2009.

84.     Political risk. On the political front, a divided Assembly may become an obstacle
to important reforms, despite the strong electoral mandate obtained by President Saca. To
date, the Government's approach to consensus building appears to be bearing fruit, as
witnessed by the approval of fiscal reforms, DR-CAFTA ratification and other significant
legislation, although political obstacles to reform can not yet be fully ruled out. Politically
tense relations with some sectors of the Assembly could delay prompt ratification of
external loans, including this second DPL, as the f r s t DPLwas only ratifiedby congress in
mid August 2005 after several months of political discussions. The Government expects
that concurrent submission of the DPLs and the annual budget or soon after to the
Assembly will give it the leverage neededfor prompt loan ratification.

85.     External risk. Going forward, sustained high oil prices or a new international
recession could negatively affect El Salvador's economy and worsen debt dynamics. In
addition, given the increase in public debt of recent years, an increase in international
interest rates posesrisks of unexpected additional financing costs, albeit limited, given that
60% of public debt i s at fixed interest rate. The Government has expressedinterest inusing
a Master Derivatives Agreement (MDA) and use of the Banks financial products to help
mitigate some of these risks.

86.     Natural disaster risk. The country remains vulnerable to natural disasters (e.g.,
earthquakes, hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, and floods) which can hurt the performance of
the economy and the soundness of the financial system in the short-term, and may require
significant unanticipated expenditures for emergency assistance and reconstruction. The
Government's focus on improving fiscal responsibility and restoring broad-based growth
while building a stronger social safety net, position it to better absorb such shocks in the
future. While new large-scale disasters could jeopardize medium-term reform targets, the
creation of the disaster prevention and mitigation fund is a step in the right direction to


                                               32

  cover needs arising from natural shocks. Following Hurricane Stan the government i s
  working to develop medium-term mitigation strategies and i s currently exploring options
  for catastrophic riskinsuranceininternational markets.

  87.    Crime and Violence risk. Continuing problems with crime and violence in El
  Salvador could also pose a risk to the achievement of the reform objectives.  Highlevels
  of crime and violence have a direct negative economic and social impact, and also
  negatively affect the investment climate and overall image of the country. Enhancing
  security i s a key pillar of El Salvador's overall development plan "Safe Country'' and the
  Government i s implementing a multi-pronged strategy to reduce crime and violence,
  including improvements in the criminaljustice system, employment and training programs
  for disadvantagedyouth and curriculumadaptation in schools.


           V.      COORDINATIONWITH DONORS AND STAKEHOLDERS

  88.    Since the Saca administration took office, the Bank has worked closely with
  the Government, other donors, civil society, and the private sector to develop the
  Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Bank's CAS - where the framework
  for the proposed DPL was first presented - was widely discussed in several forums.
  Consultations were held in San Salvador in October, 2004, inwhich participants discussed
  the findings and recommendations of recent Bank analytical studies and provided input on
  proposed areas of future Bank assistance including the proposed series of DPLs. There
  was general support for DPLs as an appropriate way for the Bank to support the country's
  own development strategy and priorities, as long as efforts continued to strengthen the
  transparency and effectiveness of budget expenditures. Most participants welcomed the
 proposed Development Policy Lending approach as a way to lower the costs of external
  financing.

  89.    The Government of El Salvador mounted an extensive outreach program led
  by President Saca to explain and obtain support for the DPL series and the broader
  development program, in the context of ratification efforts of the first DPL. The effort
  included presentations to Parliamentarians and with other groups, as well as mass media
  communications. In addition the Government maintains an ongoing dialogue with civil
  society and other stakeholders on its key economic programs through several public fora,
 including, the National Commission for the Promotion of Exports and Investment and
  (CONADEI) and current efforts to design a national export strategy with participation of
 groups representing small farmers, SMEs and sectoral private sector associations. Other
  outreach efforts include joint Bank-Government efforts to disseminate and obtain feedback
. on recent analytic work through seminars held with think tanks and civil society groups
  (FUSADES, Cornision Nacional de Desarrollo), including those held earlier in 2005 for
 the Investment Climate Assessment, Poverty Assessment, Shocks and Social Protection,
  and the DR-CAFTA regional study. In addition, in view of the stepped up program, the
 Bankhasopenedanew office inSan Salvador to facilitate consultations and dialogue with
  stakeholders around DPLs and other operations.




                                               33

90.    The Bank has also worked closely with the IMF and other donors during the
preparation of the DPL. The IMF and the Bank have coordinated during the CAS
preparation process and the preparation of the proposed DPL. The IMF has produced an
updated Assessment Letter (Annex 4).

91.    The DPL 2 public information document will be made public. The Bank team
plans to ensure continued engagement by multiple stakeholders in relation to the DPL
objectives by holding workshops, roundtable discussions, and working groups to discuss
progress on the specific reform benchmarks and to advise on progress, impact,
implementation capacity and timing.




                                           34

                            Annex 1:Letter of Development Policy




                         Presidency of theRepublic of El Salvador
                               Secretary of TechnicalAffairs



San Salvador, October 31,2005

Mr. PaulWolfowitz
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr.Wolfowitz:

The Government of President Elias Antonio Saca requested from the World Bank a
program of Development Policy Loans (DPL), "Broad-Based Growth," for US $400
million. The first loan DPL 1, for US$100 millions, has already been approved and
disbursed. These resources are being used for improvements in the country's external
indebtednessprofile. The secondUS$lOO millions, for DPL 2, are beingrequestedhereby.

The Government Plan 2004-2009, "Safe Country," has several ambitious goals and i s
based on three axes of action: Economic & Employment Growth, Equity, and Security.
Three areas are crucial for the success of the Government Plan "Safe Country." First, the
Government i s working to establish the conditions to accelerate economic growth and
decreasepoverty levels. Second, it i s taking actions to strengthen public finances with the
goals of stabilizing the fiscal situation, decreasing debt levels, and increasing the budget
allocated to social expenditures and key investment projects. Third, the Government will
continue its efforts to modernize the public sector, in order to achieve greater efficiency
and accountability inthe use of fiscal resources.

Creationof Jobs and Economic Growth

Free Trade

Since the beginning of the 1990s, ElSalvador has been committed to leverage the great
opportunities that result from free trade and globalization as an important tool to enabling a
sustainable economic growth. Especially important inour agendafor trade openness, i s the
Free Trade Agreement with Dominican Republic, Central America and the United States



                                              35

of America (DR-CAFTA), which has been ratified by El Salvador's and US Congresses
and which is expected to start implementation inJanuary 2006.

Inaddition, we have free trade agreementswith other countries and are advancing toward
becoming integrated with other strategic trading partners- including the EuropeanUnion,
Canada and Taiwan. At the same time, we have made important progress and will continue
to work in our regional integration agenda with Central American countries. El Salvador
has led efforts in the region by standardizing forms and processes and launching the
interconnection of customs offices with those in Guatemala, a process which has reduced
border crossing time of cargo.

Leveraging DR-CAFTA

The implementation of the DR-CAFTA agreement is going to bring large benefits to our
population and we expect little negative impact on agricultural producers of sensitive
commodities. Analyses supported by the World Bank and others shows that these potential
impacts will take some time to materialize, since the reduction of tariff will be gradual for
sensitive commodities (up to 20 years).

Notwithstanding, we have launched programs to address the impact of DR-CAFTA in
potentially vulnerable sectors. Inearly 2005 we created an agricultural fund FOCAGRO
(Fondo de la Reconversion del Sector Agropecuario y Agroindustrial), financed by
processors of agricultural commodities and importers. FOCAGRO i s aimed to
technological upgrading and substitution activities for producers of grains and other
products that could face increased competition when the grace periods negotiated in DR-
CAFTA are exhausted.

Looking forward, the Government i s working on a package of legal amendments to make
current legal and regulatory frameworks consistent with DR-CAFTA requirements. In
addition, by June 2006 we expect to finalize creating a one-stop shop for obtaining all
import related permits and licenses, further simplifying import processes and
complementing the existing one for export relatedpermits, CENTREX.

In order to capitalize on new trade and investment opportunities that will arise from DR-
CAFTA, the Investment and Export Promotion Agency (PROESA) i s redoubling efforts to
attract new investors. PROESA's efforts have focused on facilitating new investments and
expansion of established plants in a range of sectors including light manufacturing,
electronics, textiles, apparel and business process outsourcing (BPO)/call centers. In the
important apparel and textile sector, PROESA has also undertaken vertical promotion to
encourage higher valued added investments. It i s also deepening efforts to attract
investment to new sectors and high valued added operations by, inter alia, the agency's
increasedpromotionactivities incall centers and light manufacturing.

To create the conditions needed to raise the level of competitiveness of our country and of
our f m s , particular relevance i s being attributed to technological innovation and the
promotionof quality-essential elements to access the developed markets where we expect
to sell our products and services in the future. Progress has been made in the development


                                              36

and formulation of a new policy for innovation and technological development in close
collaboration with the private sector. In May 2005 the "Innovation Promotion Group"
(GPI) was established to coordinate the activities of the various government agencies
involved in activities associated with the promotion of innovation and technology
adoption. GPI membership includes government officials, NGOs, private sector and
universities, and it is presidedby the Ministry of Economy. The GPI is also charged with
providing the guidelines for the development of a national innovation policy and helping
create the conditions for the strengthening of the Salvadoran National Innovation System.
The new policy aims to establish an efficient National Innovation and Technology System
that will be instrumental inboosting the competitiveness of the Salvadoranprivate sector.

Additionally, we are working to promote a National Quality Program, focused on the
public and private sectors, to streamline the use of quality regulations, and strengthen our
systems for accreditation and certification and for products, processes and human
resources.

Support for Micro, Small andMediumSized Enterprises

Micro, small and medium sized enterprises (MSMEs) are of fundamental importance inthe
creation of jobs and the battle against poverty, since they employ a significant portion of
the labor force. With the new free trade agreements, domestic businesses have a greater
chance to sell their products and services in a much larger market - whether it i s through
direct exports, indirect exports through specialized channels, or by becoming providers of
raw materials, products and services for exporters.

The Government i s adopting several measures to improve the competitiveness of SMEs in
this new environment. Actions include expanding programs to allow SMEs to gain access
to market intelligence, establish export contacts, adopt and adapt technologies, and
improve quality.

We have designed programs to provide SMEs with information on the requirements to
access the U.S. market and with technical assistance to meet the sanitary and phytosanitary
standards. Contributing to these efforts are the Infocentros Network; the "BONOMYPE', a
training instrument; the funds for technical assistance support ("FAT and FOEX'); and
programs to promote SME association.

Investment Climate

The Government has been working to cut costs and the time it takes companies to register
and begin operating in the country. The World Bank's "Doing Business in 2006" report
states that El Salvador has cut the days to start up a business from 115 to 40. This i s in
great part a result of the opening in early 2005 of a single registration window (Centro de
Tramites Empresariales, CTE) for SMEs, in collaboration with the SME support agency
(CONAMYPE). Recent progress includes an agreement with the National Registry to
register trademarks and patents at the CTE. An additional CTE will be opened at the
beginning of next year inthe western part of the country.



                                              37

Furthermore, preparations are underway for the opening of an office that enables
companies to obtain all required documents simultaneously at the same place, within the
National Registry in San Salvador. These measures will represent significant savings of
time and money for our investors.

The Government of President Saca i s strengthening policies associated with market
performance and consumer defense, and has already taking decisive actions inthese areas.
The National Assembly approved the Consumer Protection Law and the "Defensoria del
Consumidor" i s already in place. The new framework allows for a better way to protect
consumer rights.Itestablishes a systemof sanctions to discourage abuses to consumers.

Also, work i s under way to ensure that the new Superintedency of Competition i s in
operation by January. The aim of this new agency will be to guard against anticompetitive
practices throughout the economy.

In addition, the Government is continuing with its efforts to improve the investment
climate. We have been working inregulating instruments to provide investors with a wide
spectrum of riskheturn combinations. The new securitization law was presented to the
National Assembly in October 2005, and we expect to obtain its approval soon. In
addition, we are working on draft legislation to develop the areas of mutual funds which
we expect to submitto the National Assembly before the end of the year.

We are especially interested inimproving the legal framework for economic activities. For
this purpose, we will be working in draft legislation for bankruptcy proceedings, a
Movable Assets Registry and Factoring. We have formed a Commission composed by
members of this office, NGOs, academia, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance and
National Register Center, to review our commercial legislation in order to promote
changes and design reforms that will eliminate unnecessaryprocedures that have an impact
in the cost of starting and operating a business, or design alternative and less costly
measures for startingbusiness, includingreforms of the Code of Commerce.

In July 2005 the Government launched an ambitious strategy to promote the use of
information and communication technologies (ICT). The strategy called E-Pais seeks to
foster the widespread use of internet by the government, especially in its service and
transaction sectors, businesses and the public at large. E-Pais will focus inits first stage in
connecting public schools to the Internet, the development of electronic government
projects, and inthe drafting of a new legal and institutionalframework for ICTs.

Infrastructure

InJanuary 2004, the Government initiatedthemegadevelopment project of the LaUnih
Port which should substantially improve the distribution and storage services capacity in
the country and which will provide an alternative to the Panama Canal through the
connection to a Honduran port in the Atlantic Ocean. Inroads, the government intends to
continue improving the main road network through the Program "Caminos Rurales
Pavimentados" and the RoadMaintenance Fund(FOVIAL) program.


                                             38

Of particular interest for our Government i s the construction of a highway that goes
through the territory by the northern partof the country. The need of this highway has been
identified by the communities that live in that zone though a consultation process
performed by the CND (Comisi6n Nacional de Desarrollo). We hope to submit the first
phase of this highway to the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), along with
programs in the area of human and productive development. The implementation of the
three components of the proposal to be presented to the MCC, are geared to promote
economic development and reducepoverty of the people inthe country's northern zone.

In energy, the priority is to strengthenthe institutional capacity of the Superintendent of
Energy and Telecommunications (SIGET), and to review the framework under which the
electricity market is currently working to ensure competitive and fair pricing and develop
plans for the regional interconnection of the Central American grid.

The ports and airports sectors have been modernized through the approval of the general
laws and some of the regulations for the operation of the Maritime Port Authority and Civil
Aviation Authority, which we expect to complete inthe future.

Preparation for the concession of the Port of Acajutla i s underway and the Government
anticipates the transaction to be concluded in the first half of 2006. Also, a preliminary
feasibility work for the concession of the cargo terminal of the International Airport i s
being prepared by the port and airport authority, CEPA. The Government i s also
investigating the potential for private sector involvement in under-funded areas of
infrastructure such as wastewater treatment, new power plant production and major
highway linkages.

With the support of the World Bank's REDI, we are studyingthe obstacles that the current
state of infrastructure imposes on trade, growth, and the sustained reduction of poverty.
This study i s expected to identify key actions to eliminate these obstacles. Given
limitations in public financing, it i s particularly important for the Government to promote
alliances between the public andprivate sectors for infrastructure projects.

Macroeconomic Stability and Fiscal Consolidation

Public Finance

El Salvador enjoys macroeconomic stability, and is one of the few countries in Latin
America with an investment grade. This stability i s a requirement to achieve economic
development and growth. In order to strengthen stability, we have taken steps to
consolidate public finances. We have conducted important reforms that have enabled us to
increase tax revenues by 1.3 percentagepoints of GDP in 2005. On October 2004, a fiscal
reform was approved by the LegislativeAssembly, consisting of the reform of 12bodies of
law to close fiscal gaps, expand the tax base, and combat evasion. Moreover, the Pension
Savings System Law was reformed, eliminating early retirement provisions. Legislation
was also approved inearly 2005 to increaseexcise taxes on cigarettes, alcoholic beverages,
beer, guns, ammunitions and fireworks. Receipts from higher excises are being used to


                                                39

fund the Health Sector Fund (FOSALUD), aimed at increasing health coverage in the
poorestregions of the country.

With the assistance of the World Bank, a study on the distributive impact of the fiscal
reforms has been carried out, suggesting that the distribution of consumption of the
changes approved in tax regulations are on the whole slightly progressive, without taking
into account the more progressive expected impact of additional expenditures like
FOSALUD (e.g., health centers for low income Salvadorans) as well as the public health
effects of lower cigarette and liquor consumption. The study also notes the importance for
the poor of reforms that reduce the likelihood of future fiscal crises which could lead to
higher interest rates, lower growth and eventually greater welfare losses for the most
vulnerable. To keep fiscal stability, the Government is working in specific areas where
there i s still an opportunity to close loopholes both in the expenditures side, as in the
collection area.

On the other side, the Government is looking to optimize management of the public debt
portfolio and investments in management of risks, including those arising from changes in
exchange rates and/or interest rates, debt swaps, and financial investments, in order to
cover from changes in long term liabilities. For such purpose, we are exploring
possibilities for greater World Bank assistance to develop and implement a strategy to
manage public debt that would complement government's efforts in the development of
localmarkets, debt composition andmaturity.

El Salvador is exposed to natural disasters that could result in economic losses and
increment fiscal expenditures. To improve our ability to manage this risk, we have created
a Fund to Mitigate Disasters. The Fund will be cumulative, and it i s also going to gather
resources that come from international and national cooperation.

Strengtheninp the Financial System

We are on our way to strengthening the financial sector through the adoption of measures
that will enable optimum levels of supervision, an improved financial position for banks,
and the reduction of contingent liabilities generatedby this sector.

Significant progress has been made in addressing financial sector contingencies by the
issuance of new rules on loan classification and on credit risk administration in accordance
with international best practices. The new rules establish more objective criteria in risk
assessments and the valuation of collateral. The new rules will be applied gradually, and
should lead to an orderly recapitalization process.

Draft legislation has been prepared by the Central Bank for a new Financial Supervision
Law, aimed at strengthening supervisory power, including the regulation of financial
conglomerates. The Government is consulting it with the different sectors in order to
secure that the proposed new institutional scheme is fully consistent with the general
framework of Administrative Law in El Salvador, and expects to send the draft law to the
Legislative Assembly early next year.



                                              40

Modernization of the State

Government Procurement

The Government i s committed to transparency and efficiency inpublic sector management.
The administration intends to continue restructuring public sector institutions, improving
human resource management, increasing the efficiency and transparency of resources
transferred to municipalities, modernizing regulatory entities, and strengthening the
judiciary, Currently, public institutions enjoy a modern procurement law that contributes
to the transparency of government purchases.

Strong steps have been taken with the issuance of the regulations to LACAP (Ley de
Adquisiciones y Contrataciones de la Administracion P6blica) and the strengthening of
W A C (Unidad Normativa de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones) which has assumed its
leadership role of policy development as well as its consultative role, providing the
oversight of the Public Procurement System. UNAC has initiatedaprogram of surveys and
training of all institutionaVministeria1 procurement units, as well as developed standard
biddingdocumentsto be usedby all government entities.

Electronic Government

Important initiatives in e-government have been launched to increase transparency and
reduce the transaction costs of accessing public services. The "E-Pais" strategy, launched
in July, builds upon existing e-government initiatives implemented over the years,
including the online payment of taxes and customs duties. There are two elements from the
strategy that directly contribute to transparency and reduced transaction costs are being
developed with the support of a Bank-financed technical assistance loan: An online feature
for the payment of a broad set of public services ("P@goes"), which will allow users to
pay directly from the service provider's websites using a variety of payment options,
including credit cards. The other i s the information module of Comprasal, Moddiv
(M6dulo de Divulgacidn), which makes information on government purchases available to
the public through Internet. Moddiv was launched in September 2005 in parallel with a
major training exercisefor government institutions.

InternalControl Systems

The Government i s working to adopt and implement new regulations for internal control,
so as to create a more efficient and effective public administration to achieve the
Government Plan's greater goals.

We are taking actions to further strengthen public financial management (PFM)
modernization process, based upon legislation that provides a sound framework for budget
management processes. A noteworthy step in this area has been the recent government
adoption of a framework for internal controls consistent with international standards, for
which implementation i s underway.



                                             41

Conclusion

The Government of El Salvador is committed to taking the necessary steps to promote
economic and employment growth, improve security, and progress inequality. The World
Bank supports us in this effort through the DPL program and through funding for specific
projects. The Government also possesses a social agenda that has not been explained in
detail in this letter. We are committed to implement social programs, aimed at expanding
access to markets and basic services, including the coverage and quality of education and
health care for the poor, and developing the program "Red Solidaria" aimed to the poorest
and most vulnerable Salvadorian families.

Red Solidaria i s an integrated program of targeted investments aimed at strengthening the
capacity, productivity, and income of the extreme poor. The program focuses on
addressingboth demand- and supply-side barriers to basic social service access among the
poorest Salvadorians living inrural areas. Infocusing on strengtheningthe human capital
of the poorest Salvadorians, the objectives of the program include: (i)ensuring access to
basic education from pre-school through 6* grade; (ii)    ensuring access to a package of
basic health and nutrition services, with special emphasis on the health and well-being of
young children and mothers; and (ii)    improving poor children's nutritional status. The
program also includes initiatives to improve the productivity and incomes of the poorest
Salvadorian households.

All these programs are part of the Government's Plan "Pais Seguro". We are certain that
with their implementation we are going to foster more employment opportunities,
enhancedsecurity and improvedequity.

                                       9;
                                  Eduardo Zablah-Touch6
                           Technical Secretaryfor the Presidency
                            and Governor before the World Bank




                                            42




            Annex 4. ElSalvador4tatement by IMFStaff to the World Bank
                      Economic Situation and Status of IMFRelations

                                       September 12, 2005

El Salvador maintains a close policy dialogue with the IMF. At the conclusion of the 2004
Article IV consultation (January 31, 2005), the Executive Board praised El Salvador's long
standingrecordof structural reforms and sound economic policies. Directors noted, however,
that growth has been sluggishinrecent years in the face of adverse shocks, and welcomed the
new Government's reform agenda designed to maximize the benefits of dollarization,
improve growth and social prospects, and reduce external vulnerabilities. To achieve these
goals, Directors stressedthe need to attain fiscal consolidation, strengthenfurther the banking
system, and sustainthe structural reformeffort.

So far in 2005, macroeconomic policies have remained prudent, and the economic situation
has improved slightly despite challenging external conditions (mainly, rising oil prices and
strong competition from Asia). Economic activity has picked up recently, and growth i s
projected to reach 2% in 2005 (1%%in 2004). Inflation slowed to 4% in August (year-on-
year) from 5%% inDecember 2004. As budgeted, the fiscal deficit amounted to 0.3% of GDP
through June, and i s projected to be in line with the targeted deficit of 3% of GDP for 2005 as
a whole. Net international reserves have remained broadly stable at US1.7 billion through
end-August, or about 80% of the country's external financing needsfor the next 12months.

While reforms have brought important benefits, some vulnerabilities still remain. The reform
effort, capped by official dollarization in 2001, helpedreduce interest rates and consolidated
low inflation. However, due largely to the effects of major earthquakes, a slowdown in the
global economy, and falling terms of trade (mainly oil) in recent years, growth has been
sluggish (2% per year since 2000), the external current account deficit has widened (over 4%
of GDP in 2003-04), and the public debt has risen to nearly 45% of GDP. Moreover, risks of
financial integration have been rising and the economy's competitiveness needs to be
strengthened.

Looking ahead, El Salvador needs to grow faster to help combat poverty, and to increase the
economy' flexibility to protect against adverse shocks in the context of dollarization. Policy
priorities should focus on (i) a broad tax reform that could reduce the fiscal deficit to nearly
1%% of GDP starting in 2007, thus providing the basis to reduce the public debt over time
and strengthen key social programs; (ii)     further strengthening the banking system through
steps to upgrade consolidated supervision, bring prudential norms in line with best practices,
and reinforce its safety net; and (iii)    improving the economy's competitiveness to foster
investment, and making the labor market more flexible. This strategy should also support
further trade and financial integration, including under CAFTA, and provide a strong policy
framework to reap the benefits from dollarization.

Duringthe visit of the Deputy Managing Director, Mr. Carstens, to El Salvador inJuly, the
authorities reaffirmed their commitment to an outward-oriented, market-based growth
strategy, based on strong macroeconomic policies and taking full advantage of the


                                                46

opportunities provided by trade opening, including under CAFTA. They agreed on the need to
achieve fiscal consolidation, deepen banking reform, and pursue productivity-enhancing
reforms, including through improving the business climate, upgrading education, and
broadening the private sector's role in infrastructure. The authorities noted that progress in
some o f these areas, mainly tax and labor reforms, was most likely after the congressional
elections inMarch 2006.

The next Article IV consultation discussions with El Salvador are scheduled for March 2006.




                                             47

                        Annex 5. ElSalvador Development Policy Loan
                                 Debt Sustainability Analysis

As reflected in the Base Case scenario (Table 5), Bank projections indicate that NFPS debt
would stabilize over the mediumterm in a range of 38-39% of GDP. Between 2005 and 2009,
such a scenario assumes real GDP growth stabilizing at 3.5% per year after 2006, real interest
rates at 4.0%, and a shift inthe primary balance from -0.5% to 1.3% of GDP over the period.
The scenario reflects the government's planned policies for the period which contemplate a
total increase intax revenues of almost 2% of GDPbetween 2005 and 2009.

The High Case scenario presented in Table A below relies on the expectation that El
Salvador's growth prospects should improve in 2006 and beyond. The Bank's recent CEM
indicated that in the absence of negative external shocks, El Salvador's potential growth rates
could improve to a range of 3.5 to 4%, about 1percentagepoint above the observed growth
levels over 1996-2001. Higher growth levels would be explained from a removal of the
effects of some of the short-term exogenous shocks of recent years (e.g, earthquakes, low
commodity prices, international recession, changes in world textile markets), as well as from
increased investment levels spurred by stronger fiscal adjustment and from the
implementation of DR-CAFTA startinginJanuary 2006.

                 Table A: Medium Term Macroeconomic Scenario: HighCase
                              (as % of GDP, unless indicated otherwise)

                                       2003     2004       2005      2006   2007    2008   2009
Macroeconomic Indicators
GDPgrowth (% change)
     -                                  1.8        1.5       2.5       3.5     4.0    4.0    4.0
Foreign Direct Investment               1.o       2.9        2.5       1.9     2.0    2.0    2.0

Nonfinancial Public Sector
Total Revenues and Grants              16.8      16.9        7.3       16.9    7.8  18.3   18.9
  Current revenue                      16.3      16.6        7.0       16.7    7.5  18.0   18.6
     Tax revenue                       12.1      12.2        3.0       13.4    4.0  14.5   14.9
     Other current revenue              4.2        4.4       4.0       3.3     3.5    3.5    3.7

Total Expenditures                     20.5      19.3       20.1       19.3  19.5   19.7    19.8
 Current expenditure                   16.9      17.0       17.0       16.4  16.4    16.4   16.3
 Capital expenditures                   3.7        2.3       3.1       2.9     3.1    3.3    3.5

Primary Balance                        -1.7      -0.3        -0.5      0.0     0.9    1.2    1.7

Overall NFPS balance                   -3.7      -2.4        -2.8      -2.4   -1.6   -1.4   -0.9
Total NFPSDebt                         40.7      40.6       40.9      40.7   39.8   38.7   37.2

MemorandumItems:
Gross Domestic Product (US$ mm)      14,940    15,824     16,868    17,982  19,169 20,434 21,783




                                                48

Higher growth levels would improve debt dynamics. While revenues would be expected to
grow at the higher rates of GDP expansion, debt servicing would become a proportionally
smaller burden. Hence, greater growth would yield additional fiscal resources with respect to
the base case, which would yield a faster debt reduction trajectory, if broad revenue and
expenditure policies remain as inthe BaseCase (as share of GDP). Inthe HighCase Scenario,
GDP growth i s projected to increase to 3.5% in 2006 and 4.0% thereafter, and savings from
the redesign of the financing structure of the pension systemare expectedto be phasedinover
the forecast period. Other parameters follow the same path expected in the Base Case
presented in Table 5. In such circumstances, the overall NFPS deficit will be slightly below
the Base Case scenario, but total public debt would decline at a faster pace. NFPS debt would
reach 37.2% by 2009.

To explore the potential impact on debt sustainability of a relaxation of fiscal efforts, a Low
Case scenario was developed. In this scenario, higher current expenditures and lower tax
revenues lead to lower investment and growth levels compared to those expected in the Base
Case scenario. Table B presentsthe results of the Low Case Scenario inwhich growth slows
to 2.0% in2005 and 2.5% thereafter, while tax revenues collections only increase 1%of GDP
with respect to 2005 levels. Inthis case, NFPS deficits would be higher than inthe Base Case
scenario presented inTable 5, and total NFPS debt would increasecontinously from its 2005
level, reaching 43% of GDPin2009.


                 Table B: Medium Term Macroeconomic Scenario: Low Case
                               (as % of GDP, unlessindicatedotherwise)
                                            2003     2004     2005    2006   2007   2008     2009
 Macroeconomic Indicators
 GDPgrowth (% change)                         1.8       1.5    2.0       2.5   2.5     2.5     2.5
 ForeignDirectInvestment                      1.o      2.9     2.0       1.6    1.5    1.5     1.5

 Nonfinancial Public Sector
 Total RevenuesandGrants                     16.8     16.9    17.4     16.7   17.1   17.3    17.8
   Currentrevenue                            16.3     16.6    17.1     16.6   16.8   17.0    17.4
      Tax revenue                            12.1     12.2    13.0     13.2   13.4   13.6    14.0
      Other current revenue/1                 4.2      4.4     4.0       3.4    3.4    3.4     3.4

 TotalExpenditures                           20.5     19.3    20.2     19.4   19.7   19.9    20.1
   Currentexpenditure                        16.9     17.0     17.1    16.6   16.6   16.6    16.7
   Capitalexpenditures                        3.7      2.3      3.1      2.9    3.1    3.3     3.5

 Primary Balance                             -1.7      -0.3    -0.5     -0.3    0.0    0.2     0.5
 OverallNFl?Sbalance                         -3.7      -2.4    -2.8     -2.7  -2.6    -2.6    -2.4

 Total NFPSDebt                              40.7     40.6    41.1     41.6   42.2   42.7    43.0

 MemorandumItems:
 GrossDomesticProduct(US$ mm)              14,940   15,824  16,786    17.722 18.619 19,562  20,552




                                                49

Sensitivity Analysis to Changes InMainMacroeconomic Assumptions

The base case scenario presentedin this document is based on assumptions about economic
growth, interest rates and inflation that follow the corresponding paths summarized in Table
5. Changing any of these factors would have an important effect on the fiscal tightening
needed to achieve a sustainable fiscal position. To determine how critical these assumptions
are, sensitivity analysis was carried out on the average primary balance that, if maintained
between 2005 and 2009, would allow the government to comply with the fiscal target of
achieving a stable debt to GDP ratio of under 40% of GDP by 2009 and maintained it
thereafter.

Table C can be interpreted as follows. The Base Case scenario assumes that annual real GDP
growth will stabilize at around 3.5% in the long-run. With this long-run growth rate, an
average primary balance of 0.8% of GDP between 2006 and 2009 would result in a total
public debt ratio close to 39% of GDP by 2009. If, however, growth turned out to be 2.5%
annually, the average primary balance that would support a debt ratio of 39% by 2009 would
be 1.2% of GDP. Note that the only assumption that changes i s the GDP growth rate-
everything else remains unchanged.As would be expected, higher growth would allow for the
achievement of debt targets with a more modest fiscal effort.

       Table C: NFPS Primary Balance** and SelectedMacroeconomic Variables
                                  (Primary balance as % of GDP)

      Real GDP Growth(2006-2009)                   7.5     2.5   3.5*     4.5     5.5

           NFPS Primary Balance**                  1.6     1.2    0.8     0.4     0.0


      NominalInterest Rate (2006-2009)             4.5     5.5    6.5*    7.5     8.5

           NFPS Primary Balance**                  -0.1    0.4    0.8     1.1     1.5




                                               50

                                    ElSalvador at a glance                                                                        10/20/05


                                                                           Latin   Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                    El  America  middle-
                                                               Salvador  & Carib. income     Developmentdiamond'

2004
Population,mid-year (millions)                                      6.1     541     2,430
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod,US$)                                  2,570    3,600    1,580                   Lifeexpectancy
GNi (Atlasmethod, US$bi/ilOnS)                                     15.7    1,948    3,847                         I


Average annual growth, 1998-04
Population(%J                                                       2.0      1.4      1.o
Labor force (%)                                                     2.2      0.9      0.7                                           Gross
                                                                                                                                  primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                        capita                             enrollment
Poverty(% of populationbelow natlonalpovertyllneJ
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                               80       77       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (yearsl                                       70       71       70                         I

Infantmortality (per 7,000live births)                               32       28       33
Child malnutrition (% of childrenunder 5)                            10                11         Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                   82       89       81
Literacy(% ofpopulationage 15i)                                      81       89       90
Gross primaryenrollment ("Aof school-agepopulation)                 113      123      114       -N         Salvador
   Male                                                             116      128      115               Lower-middle-inwmegroup
                                                                                                ~


   Female                                                           109      122      113

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1984             1994    2003      2004     Economicratios.
GDP ( U Sbilllons)                                   3.7            8.1     14.9     15.8
Gross capitalformatiodGDP                          12.0            19.7     16.7     15.6
Exportsof goods and ServiceslGDP                   21.8            20.0     26.7     27.2                        Trade
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                            5.2            4.5       0.3     -1.4
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                             5.2           13.3     11.o      9.1

Currentaccount balancdGDP                           -6.5            -4.2     -5.1     -3.9    Domestic                         Capital
InterestpaymentdGDP                                                                           savings                          formation
Total debt/GDP                                     50.0            27.3     41.2     39.6
Total debt servicdexports
Presentvalue of debVGDP
Presentvalue of debVexports
                                                                                                             Indebtedness
                                       198444 1994-04              2003     2004  2004-08
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                            -
GDP                                      -21.5       2.8             1.8      1.5      2.9                N Salvador
GDP per capita                           -22.3       0.7             0.0     -0.1      1.2        -Lower-middle-incomearom
Exports of goodsand services             -22.1       9.6             3.8      6.6      2.6



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1984            1994     2003
("A of GDP)
Agriculture                                                         15.0      9.1
industry                                                           30.0      32.3     30.9
  Manufacturing                                                    23.5      24.8     24.1
Services                                               ........    55.0      56.5     59.6

Householdfinal consumption expenditure             78.8            87.2      86.9
General gov'tfinal consumption expenditure         16.0              8.4     10.8     10.5
imports of goods and services                      28.5            35.2      43.0     44.2


                                                1984-94 1994-04             2003     2004    Growth of exportsand imports(%)
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                                     L
Agriculture                                       -23.5              0.7      0.1
Industry                                          -21.4              4.1      2.6
  Manufacturing                                   -21.2              4.3      2.3
Services                                          -22.1              2.6      1.8

Householdfinal consumption expenditure            -19.4              3.0      1.7      2.2
General gov'tfinal consumption expenditure        -27.7              2.3      4.1     -2.7
Gross capitalformation                            -16.3              2.3      6.7     -3.8                    worts -Imports
importsof goods and services                      -16.3              6.9      4.8 ,    3.4


Note: 2004 data are preliminaryestimates.
  The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country(in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. if data are missing,the diamondwill
   be incomplete.




                                                                         51

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1984   1994   2003     2004
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                             11.7     7.2    2.1      4.5
Implicit GDP deflator                       10.7     9.9    2.5      4.3

NFPSfinance
("A of GDP,includes current grants)
Current revenue                                    17.1    16.3    16.3             99    00      01       02      03       04
Current budget balance                               3.4    -0.1    -0.1            -GDP      deflator " O I C P I
Overall surDluddeficit                              -0.6    -3.7    -2.4

TRADE
                                            1984   1994   2003     2004
(US$millions)
Total exports (fob)                          716  1,090   3,153   3,330    7,000
  Coffee                                     450    271     105     123
  Cotton                                             30      47      37
  Manufactures                               239    766   2,990   3,164
Total imports (cif)                          977  2,574   5,754   6,269
  Food                                       236    495   1,317   1,451
  Fuel and energy                            130    112     209     226
                                                                                                                              I
  Capital goods                              132    666     936     990

Exportprice index (2000=100)                  77     96     101      102           a8   88    00     01      02    03

Importprice index (2000=100)                  76     67     104      109                 Eworts              Imports      O4
Terms of trade (2000=100)                    102    110      97      94

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                            1904   1994   2003     2004
(US$ millions)                                                             Current account balanceto GDP(YO)                  c
Exportsof goods and services                 932   1,614  4,006   4,301
Importsof goods and services                1,172 2,847   6,462   7,029
Resource balance                            -240  -1,232  2,456   -2,726

Net income                                  -134   -105    -422    -460
Net current transfers
Current account balance                     -240   -336    -764    -612

Financingitems (net)                         225    479   1,080      572
Changes in net reserves                        14  -143    -316       40

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       310    924   2,039    2,020
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)              3.0    1.o     1.o     1.o

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1984   1994    2003    2004
(US$millions)                                                               Composition of 2004 debt (US0 mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,631  2,210  6,160    6,271
  IBRD                                        95     290    372      346   I
  IDA                                         26      21      14      13                           A: 348

Total debt service                           237     339    506      556
  IBRD                                         11     36     54       53
  IDA                                           1      1       1       1
                                                                                                                    D: 1,925
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                    112     70       46
  Official creditors                          160    112      51     -72
  Privatecreditors                            -33    -60    369      470
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)              15     154     459
  Porffolioequity (net inflows)

World Bank program
  Commitments                                   0      0       0      16     A - l6RD                          E -Bilateral
  Disbursements                                11     70      36      16     B IDA      D- Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                                -
  Principalrepayments                           5     19      36      41     C IMF
                                                                               --                              G -Short-term
  Netflows                                      6     51       0     -25
  Interestpayments                              6     17      17      12
  Net transfers                                -1     34     -17     -37


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                 10/20/05




                                                         52

                            90W                                                                                                    89W                                                                                              88W



                                                                                      To
                                                                              Quezaltepeque
                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                              Nueva
                                                                 To                                         Ocotepeque
                                                                Ipala
                         GUATEMALA
                                                                                      Metapn
                                                                                      Metapn            La Palma       Cerro                                   HONDURAS
                                                           Lago de                                                     El Pital
                                                                                                                     (2,730 m)                                                                                         EL SALVADOR
                                                   To         Gija
                                                 Jutiapa                               ANA
                                                             Candelaria de
                                                             la Frontera

                                                                                               Nueva                     Tejutla
                                     To                                                   Concepcin
                                                                                          Concepcin
                                 Jalpatagua                             SANTA                            C H A L AT E N A N G O

                                                                                                       Lem pa
                                                                                                                                              Chalatenango
                                                                   Santa                                                      Embalse                                                                                               To
              14N                              Chalchuapa           Ana                                     SAN         Cerrn Grande                                       Lempa                                                 Marcala                                 14N

                            Paz                                                                                                      Suchitoto                                                                 Jocoaitique
                 To                                                                                                                                       C A B A  A S
               Taxisco                                                                           L A             SA
                                                                                                                                               Ilobasco                   Sensuntepeque
                        La Hachadura
                                AHUACHAPN
                                Ahuachapan                 Volcn de
                                                            olcn                                   Aguilares
                                                           Santa Ana
                                                           (2,365 m)
                                                                                        L I B E R TA D
                                                                        Lago de                                    LVA
                                                                        Coatepeque                                                                                                                                Osicala    Torola

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ciudad Barrios
                                                            Izalco     Armenia                                        DO    CUSCATLN                                                                                                               Nueva
                                                                                                           SAN          R                                     S A N                                                    M O R A Z  N                Esparta
                                                                                                  SALVADOR                                                                                                                       San Francisco
                                                        Sononate                                                                Lago de        CojutepequeV I C E N T E                                                          (Gotera)
                                               S O N S O N AT E                                Nueva                           Illepango
                                                                                        San Salvador                                                       San Vicente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Santa Rosa  Goascorn Nacaome
                                       Acajutla                                                                                        Jiboa Volcn de
                                                                                                                                              olcn                                                                                               de Lima
                                                                                                                                               Vicente
                                                                                                                                             (2,182 m)
                                                                                                                  Olocuilta                                                  Santiago                                                            L A
                                                                                                                                       Zacatecoluca        Tecoluca

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          San Miguel         U N I  N
                                                                                         La Libertad                         San Luis         L A                 Lempa      de Mara
                                                                                                                                                                                Mara                   S A N M I G U E L

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Volcn de
                                                                                                                                                                                                          olcn
                                                                                                                                            PPA Z
                                                                                                                                               A                                                        San Miguel
                            90W                                                                                                                                         U S U L U T  N                 (2,130 m)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LaBah
                                                                                                                           La Herradura                              Jiquilisco                                de San i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Miguel                            Un a nde
                                                                                                                                                                            Baha
                     EL SALVADOR                                                                                                                                                 de            Usulutn
                                                                                                                                                                                               Usulutn
                                                                                                                                                                                   Jiquilisco            Grande                                       La Unin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Unin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Laguna de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Olomega


                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                 Intipuca  Golfo de

                               DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                  Fonseca

                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                              PACIFIC OCEAN
                               RIVERS                                   This map was produced by
                                                                        the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                                         13N
                               MAIN ROADS                               World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                        colors, denominations and
                                                                        any other information shown
SEPTEMBER                      RAILROADS
                                                                        on this map do not imply, on                                                   0   10        20         30        40 Kilometers                                                                         IBRD
                                                                        the part of The World Bank
                               DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                    Group, any judgment on the
                                                                        legal status of any territory,
                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                 or any endorsement or                                                          0        10               20              30 Miles                                                                           33401
         2004                                                           a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                                                        boundaries.                                                 89W                                                                                              88W

