Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1816 
Operation Name 
SV Program. Broad Based Growth DPL II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P094146 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT OF THE PRESIDENCY 
Date PID Prepared 
October 24, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 1, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
Expected December 15, 2005 
I.
 
C
OUNTRY AND 
S
ECTOR 
B
ACKGROUND
 
El Salvador is a lower middle income country with a distinguished record of structural reforms. Since 
the early 1990’s, following the costly decade-long civil war of the 1980s, the country embarked on a 
series of economic reforms that have substantially benefited overall macroeconomic stability, social 
conditions, trade liberalization and access to international financial markets. The adoption of the U.S. 
dollar as legal tender in 2001 has yielded positive impacts such as low inflation and interest rates and  
reduced business uncertainty. El Salvador’s steadfast commitment to an outward oriented development 
strategy, is clearly evidenced in the fact that it was the first country to ratify the Central America Free 
Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) with the United States.  
While El Salvador has posted important gains toward meeting most of the Millennium Development 
Growth targets since 1990, bolstering economic growth rates which have remained low since the late 
1990’s, constitutes the single most important challenge toward complying with the MDGs.   The period 
between 1991 and 2002 saw a significant decline in overall poverty (over 27 percentage points); the 
halving of extreme poverty and impressive progress in social areas (including inter alia, rates of 
enrollment in basic education, infant and maternal mortality, access to both reproductive health services 
and safe water.)  However, growth levels slowed in recent years due in large part to a combination of 
external shocks including earthquakes, depressed coffee prices, international recession and, more 
recently, high oil prices.  As a result of these factors, growth since 2000 has averaged less than 2.0%, 
barely enough to keep per capita incomes roughly constant.  This low growth coupled with the 
substantial reconstruction outlays of the 2001 earthquakes and growing transition costs associated with 
El Salvador’s ongoing pension reform are key factors contributing to the country’s increasing debt 
levels.   
Against this backdrop, President Saca’s Administration assumed office in June 2004 with a 
comprehensive development program aimed at addressing El Salvador’s prevailing challenges.
 
The 
Government’s plan, referred to as “Safe Country 2004-2009, which as discussed in detail below is 
supported by a programmatic series of Bank sponsored DPLs totaling up to $400 million, focuses on 
sound macro-fiscal management, foreign investment promotion, free trade, and a private sector-led 
development. Within this context, reigniting broad-based growth is first and foremost amongst the 
challenges, as successful bolstering of such growth is considered key to create jobs, raise incomes, 
generate government revenue, lower the debt burden and drive down poverty. Second, the government 
seeks to address recent fiscal disequilibria so as to stem growing debt levels while maintaining fiscal 
Page  2
space to adequately finance its development agenda. Third, the government is pushing ahead with 
modernization of its public sector in order to use its limited fiscal resources to greatest effect.  
 
II. PROGRESS UND
ER THE GOVERNMENT’ S DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM  
 
A. A
CCELERATING BROAD
-
BASED GROWTH 
 
The new Government
’s growth agenda is anchored around the recent approval and 
implementation of the U.S.-Central America-Dominican Republic Free Trade Agreement (DR-
CAFTA)
 to reinforce its outward-development strategy, along with the complementary agenda of policy 
and institutional reforms to ensure that El Salvador can fully benefit from the opportunities of trade and 
greater integration into the world economy.  Key complementary actions include measures to facilitate 
the expansion of trade and investment levels, improvements in the investment climate, addressing 
infrastructure investment and services, promoting innovation and technology, as well as bolstering the 
educational level of the labor force
 
i)
Trade
The Salvadoran Assembly ratified DR-CAFTA in December 2004, making El Salvador the first 
country to ratify this landmark agreement.
 DR-CAFTA is a comprehensive agreement that commits 
partner countries to eliminate virtually all trade tariffs and to enforce and improve transparency in areas 
of regulation such as investment protection, intellectual property rights and procurement. A recent DR-
CAFTA regional Bank report concluded that the agreement is likely to improve growth levels across 
Central America, due to the expected positive effects on trade and investment levels. Implementation on 
a
bilateral basis is expected to start on January 1
st
 2006, following ratification by the U.S. Congress in 
July 2005.  
The Government is moving quickly with a complementary agenda to DR-CAFTA in order to 
obtain maximum benefits
.
While virtually the entire spectrum of growth policies are in a broad sense 
part of this complementary agenda, specific actions are being taken to facilitate the expansion of trade 
and investment levels. The Government expects to present to the Assembly in the coming months a 
package of legal amendments to make current frameworks consistent with DR-CAFTA requirements. In 
addition it is working on further simplification of import/export processes through the creation of a one-
stop shop for obtaining all import and export related permits and licenses (expected by mid 2006).  
Facilitation of intra-Central America trade is also proceeding in parallel through harmonization and 
integration of customs procedures. El Salvador has led efforts in the region by standardizing forms and 
processes and launching the interconnection of customs offices with those in Guatemala, a process 
which has reduced border crossing of cargo to 3 to 8 minutes, on average. As explained below, El 
Salvador is also prioritizing investments and reform in secondary education as a key input to preparing 
its labor market for the challenges of DR-CAFTA. 
 
The Government is also redoubling efforts to attract new investors by the Investment and Export 
Promotion Agency (PROESA) in order to capitalize on new trade and investment opportunities 
that will arise from DR-CAFTA.
 PROESA’s efforts have focused on facilitating new investments and 
expansion of established plants in a range of sectors including light manufacturing, electronics, textiles, 
apparel and business process outsourcing (BPO)/call centers. In the important apparel and textile sector, 
PROESA has also undertaken vertical promotion to encourage higher valued added investments. It is 
Page  3
also deepening efforts to attract investment to new sectors and high valued added operations by, inter 
alia, the agency’s increased promotion activities in call centers and light manufacturing. Over the period 
from January 2005 to April 2006 PROESA expects to facilitate 17 new foreign direct investment 
projects and at least 9 expansions. Preliminary calculations suggest these investments will amount to 
over $200m and could generate between 7,000 and 8,000 direct jobs and 10,000 to 14,000 indirect jobs. 
 
The strategy assigns a central role to ensuring that the benefits of new trade opportunities are 
accessible to SMEs, 
both directly through access to export markets and indirectly by developing 
strategic linkages with FDI and local exporting companies.  The Government is expanding its programs 
to allow SMEs to gain access to market intelligence, establish export contacts, adopt and adapt 
technologies, and improve quality. Special focused efforts are disseminating information on 
requirements to access the U.S. market, and to provide technical assistance to overcome technical 
barriers to trade and sanitary and phytosanitary standards. Programs contributing to these efforts include 
the Infocentros Network; the “BONOMYPE”, a training instrument; the funds for technical assistance 
support (“FAT and FOEX”); and programs to promote SME association. To deepen support for the SME 
sector, the Government’s has requested a World Bank loan to finance the Project “Ensuring SME 
Participation in International Trade” (ESPRIT), aimed at fostering SME competitiveness by promoting 
innovation, quality upgrading, and exports, for which a PHRD grant in an amount of US$ 500,000 from 
the Government of Japan has been obtained. 
 
ii)   Investment Climate
In the area of market performance, the Government is putting forward actions
 
to improve the 
legal and institutional framework for regulation of competition
.
In December 2004, the Government 
obtained approval of a Competition Law which will bolster efforts to improve the functioning of some 
markets and reduce the incidence of monopolistic practices. Moreover, in August 2005, new legislation 
was approved to modernize and streamline procedures in the area of consumer protection, which will 
allow the Government to strengthen the Consumer Protection Agency to enforce legislation and ensure 
that public utilities have in place proper channels to receive, process, and respond to legitimate 
complaints. Preparations are underway to bolster the institutions that oversee both of these areas as well 
as to issue the implementing regulations to make the new legislation operational, with the creation of a 
new Competition Agency slated for the first quarter of 2006. Government plans also include further 
work to complete the process of modernization of all public registries and of the legal framework in 
areas such bankruptcy, movable assets and e-commerce.  
 
The Government has made important progress in improving business registration procedures and 
reducing the time and cost of doing business in El Salvador.
 As presented in “Doing Business in 
2006”, the country is a leading reformer this year, slashing the time to start up a business from 115 to 40 
days. This is in great part a result of the opening in early 2005 of a single registration window (Centro 
de Tramites Empresariales, CTE) for SMEs, in collaboration with the SME support agency 
(CONAMYPE), which was a policy action supported in DPL I. Recent progress includes an agreement 
with the National Registry to register trademarks and patents at the CTE. Preparations are underway for 
the opening of an additional CTE in the first half of 2006 in San Miguel to facilitate decentralization of 
services to SMEs. 
 
The Government
 launched an ambitious strategy (“E-Pais”) to promote the use of information 
and communication technologies (ICTs) in July 2005
.
E-Pais seeks to foster the use of internet by 
business and the public at large and to improve the competitiveness of the Salvadoran broadly. E-Pais 
will focus in its first stage in connecting public schools to the Internet, the development of electronic 
Government projects (including on-line public procurement tools and on-line Government payments 
Page  4
systems 
–
see below in section on procurement and e-Government), and in the drafting a new legal and 
institutional framework for ICTs. Managed by a Presidential Commission with representatives from 
Government, the Private Sector and Academia, the program will coordinate all the Government 
initiatives in the area of ICTs, including attraction of FDI to the sector as well as the support of local 
producers and service providers. 
 
To further develop capital markets, the Government developed a proposal to create a new legal 
framework for securitization which was presented to the Assembly on October 21, 2005
,
with 
approval expected to follow shortly. Preparation of a similar framework for mutual funds has taken 
longer than expected, due to the need to accommodate within the new legal framework the existing 
portfolio management services presently provided by the banking system (“administración de cartera”), 
by designing and adopting a suitable transitional mechanism. The presentation of this legal framework 
to the Assembly is currently programmed to take place before the end of 2005. New frameworks for 
securitization and mutual funds should facilitate financing for new ventures by providing clear norms for 
the development of standard contracts tradable in liquid secondary markets, along with a regulatory and 
supervisory setup that provides predictable enforcement of those contracts. Plans for 2006 include the 
development of a new legal framework for the use of movable assets and the creation of a Movable 
Assets Registry at the Centro Nacional de Registros (CNR). 
 
iii)   Infrastructure
In infrastructure, the Government has recognized the need for an ambitious agenda that spurs 
growth on the basis of a second generation of reforms and investments
.
Through the 1990’s, El 
Salvador’s reconstruction program benefited from relatively high levels of expenditure in infrastructure 
(2 to 3% of GDP), private sector investment in power and telecommunications, rapidly expanding 
connectivity in all utilities and the creation of a strong road maintenance program.  In parallel, major 
reforms were initiated in power, telecommunications, roads and port services.  Since 2001, however, 
infrastructure investment has fallen sharply both as a percentage of public expenditure (70% in 2001 to 
30% in 2004) and as a percentage of GDP (3% to 1.2%), with the largest drop in the water and sanitation 
area. 
The Government is taking actions to return to higher levels of investment with new donor-
financed programs in water, electricity and roads (IADB) as well as ports (Japan).
 
In addition, 
preliminary findings from the REDI (see below) are contributing to an agenda centered on a second-
generation of reforms, which is expected to rely in its early stages on strengthening of regulatory 
frameworks and institutions, as well as leveraging the private sector for new investments and more 
efficient operations. Key priorities include the concession of the port of Acajutla and cargo operations at 
Comalapa Airport, the development of the new deep-sea port (La Union) and empowerment of the 
newly created regulatory agencies for the maritime and aviation sectors. In roads, the Government 
intends to continue to improve the main road network under the Road Maintenance Fund (FOVIAL) 
program and to utilize donor funds for the development of a northern corridor connecting traditionally 
poor rural communities with markets. In water, plans are underway for clarifying roles and 
responsibilities of the many agencies involved in the sector and adopting new legislation to decentralize 
and open markets by promoting participation by communities and public-private associations.  In 
energy, the priority is to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Superintendent of Energy and 
Telecommunications (SIGET), review the framework under which the electricity market is currently 
working to ensure competitive and fair pricing and develop plans for the regional inter-connection of the 
Central American grid.  
Page  5
Government actions in 2005 have focused on improving the productive sub-sectors of transport.
 
Preparation for the concession of the Port of Acajutla is underway and the Government anticipates the 
transaction to be concluded in the first half of 2006.  The bid documents for Acajutla are presently being 
prepared by the port and airport authority, CEPA, as is preliminary feasibility work for concessioning 
the cargo terminal of the International Airport. In addition, the Port of La Union is now under 
construction.  The passage last year of new maritime and aviation laws has led to the creation of sector 
regulators for each of those areas of transport. This focus on the governance and efficiency of the main 
trade corridors and logistics nodes should help improve El Salvador's competitiveness in the years 
ahead.  The Government is also investigating the potential for private sector involvement in under 
funded areas of infrastructure such as wastewater treatment, new power plant production and major 
highway linkages. 
An ongoing Recent Economic Development in Infrastructure Report, REDI, is assisting the 
Government in designing its infrastructure development agenda.
 This Bank report is carrying out a 
comprehensive assessment of El Salvador’s electricity, telecommunications, transport (roads, ports, 
airports and urban transport), and water and sanitation sectors.  The study will be finalized before the 
end of 2005. The Bank is also providing technical assistance through Public-Private partnerships 
(PPIAF) to promote the new infrastructure investment needed to enhance El Salvador’s capacity to 
compete in the global economy and attract foreign investments. 
iv)   Innovation
As diagnosed in the Bank’s recent CEM, El Salvador has been trailing in the area of innovation 
and technology. 
In particular, the country is lagging in its efforts to develop an effective National 
Innovation System (NIS). By international standards, El Salvador underperforms in innovation 
outcomes (e.g., patents, scientific publications) as a result of a very low level of R&D investment in 
comparison to countries of similar size and level of development, despite evidence of high potential 
rates of return to this type of investment. This inefficiency is in great part due to the lack of 
collaboration between the private sector and research organizations. 
 
Progress has been made in the development and formulation of a new policy for innovation and 
technological development in close collaboration with the private sector.
 In May 2005 the Ministry 
of the Economy created the “Innovation Promotion Group” (GPI), in charge of coordinating the 
activities of the various Government agencies involved in activities associated with the promotion of 
innovation and technology adoption, in line with recommendations made earlier in the year by the 
Bank’s Investment Climate Assessment report. The GPI is also charged with providing the guidelines 
for the development of a national innovation policy, and helping create the conditions for the 
strengthening of the Salvadoran National Innovation System. The GPI is presided by the Ministry of the 
Economy and includes representatives of the Ministry of Education, the Technical Secretariat of the 
Presidency, the FDI promotion agency (PROESA), CONACYT (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y 
Tecnología) and INSAFORP (Instituto Salvadoreño de Formación Profesional). Several Universities and 
private sector organizations (e.g. ASI and FUSADES) are also represented. The GPI is being presented 
as the seed of a future national technology council that the Government would formally create to oversee 
the country’s innovation policy and act as an advisory committee to the Project Implementation Unit of 
the ESPRIT project that will receive Bank funding. 
 
v.)   Education and Labor Force Competitiveness
Despite considerable progress in education, El Salvador faces critical challenges to foster an 
educated labor force as a necessary input to economic growth, competitiveness and poverty 
reduction.
 
This is a particular exigency in the face of DR-CAFTA as anticipated reforms in the areas of 
Page  6
liberalized trade regimes, growing FDI and increased economic integration put a premium on improving 
access to quality schooling to ensure an educated labor force.  
A
number of studies, including the Bank’s 
recent CEM, have posited that a population with full secondary education is key to boosting 
competitiveness and GDP in an increasingly technological world. 
Yet El Salvador faces an education deficit in secondary education, as well as issues of quality and 
equity
.
Compared to countries with similar GDP per capita, El Salvador underperforms on secondary 
enrollment and completion, despite outperforming similar countries on these measures at the pre-
primary and primary level. There are also issues of quality, reflected in low returns to lower secondary 
education, coupled with limited access and low completion rates among poorer students.  Finally, low 
unemployment rates (about 4%) and high and growing rates of return to upper secondary education 
graduates (12% versus a LAC average of 8%) suggest a low supply of secondary graduates and a high 
demand for them on the labor market. Full participation in a knowledge economy, innovation and 
technological advancement require a labor force with advanced skills, in particular a population that has 
at least completed secondary education, with a group of highly skilled individuals with tertiary 
education. 
The Government's established education priorities outlined in its long-term education strategy,
 
Plan 2021
,
address these issues
.
The policy supports increased, broad-based educational attainment 
and the improved quality and relevance of secondary education.  This is to be achieved through (i) the 
development of a competency-based curriculum; (ii) the increased use of English and technology to 
promote integration; (iii) improved monitoring, evaluation and accreditation systems; (iv) strengthened 
educational management and school autonomy; and (v) expanded access to secondary education.   While 
the programmatic DPL series does not address these priorities specifically, they form a critical part of 
the actions required to reignite growth in El Salvador for which the Bank is directly supporting 
government efforts through a new secondary education project currently under preparation. 
B. R
ESTORING A 
S
OUND 
F
ISCAL 
F
RAMEWORK 
 
The need to stem the increase in debt levels is a top priority of the Saca administration as 
formulated in “Safe Country” and in the macroeconomic medium term plan.
 
This plan includes 
measures designed to lower the fiscal deficit and reduce debt levels below 40% of GDP by the end of 
the presidential term (2009), while at the same time protecting and eventually increasing critical social 
and growth expenditures. As a result of the relatively small size of overall expenditures and the need to 
accommodate the transitional costs of pension reform, the emphasis of the Government’s proposed fiscal 
adjustment relies on increasing tax revenues and to address contingent liabilities in the financial sector. 
Current plans are to increase tax revenues by 2.7% of GDP by 2009 from its 2004 level of 12.2% of 
GDP.  
 
The Saca administration has taken important fiscal steps in 2004 and 2005 intended to reduce 
public sector deficits and public debt levels.
 In order to bring down fiscal imbalances to end further 
debt accumulation, the Government obtained approval of reforms based on a combination of improved 
tax collection efforts, broadening of tax bases, elimination of loopholes, increased excise tax rates and a 
fiscal amnesty. As part of these efforts, in January 2005 the Assembly approved increases in excise taxes 
on cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, beer, guns, ammunitions and fireworks. Receipts from higher excises 
will be used to fund the Health Sector Fund (FOSALUD), aimed at increasing health coverage in the 
poorest regions of the country.  
 
Recent tax collections data suggest that the results of the recent fiscal reforms will meet 
expectations in 2005.
 Projections made with June 2005 data indicate that the yield of the aggregate 
Page  7
package of fiscal reforms is likely to reach $217 m, surpassing initial projections by near $20m. The 
more positive outlook is due in great part to greater success in collections associated with the fiscal 
amnesty ($47 million versus projected $12 million), which compensates for the lower than expected 
revenues from excises associated with the later than expected approval of the reform, the build up of 
stocks prior to its implementation and some increase in contraband.
 
Updated fiscal projections suggest 
that the fiscal deficit is expected to close below the 3.0% GDP target by end 2005.  
 
Significant progress has been made in addressing financial sector contingencies by the issuance of 
new rules on loan classification and on credit risk administration in October 2005, as 
recommended by the Bank’s Financial Sector Assessment. 
While previous norms allowed for a high 
degree of subjectivity in risk assessments and the valuation of collateral, the new rules establish more 
objective criteria, including the use of past-due terms as criteria for portfolio classification of all loan 
types and restrictions to the use of loan restructuring or use of poorly valued guarantees to avoid 
downgrade of non-performing loans. The new rules will be applied gradually, and should lead to an 
orderly recapitalization (or restructuring) process.  
 
Medium-term prospects  
The Government has submitted a 2006 budget to the Assembly that is broadly on track with the 
medium term goal of reducing debt levels to below 40% of GDP in 2009
.
Bank estimates indicate 
that revenues are likely to meet overall targets set out in DPL I, with non-tax revenues compensating for 
a
slight shortfall in tax revenue growth with respect to projections.  The shortfall is due to (i) lower than 
expected excise revenuesd, (ii) lower fuel tax revenues due to lower gasoline consumption and (iii) 
lower tariff collections due to the entry into force of DR-CAFTA. Going forward, the government is 
planning to strengthen tax collection by using new administration powers approved in the fiscal reform 
of 2004 that should continue to raise the tax to GDP ratio in 2006 and beyond. 
 
Updated medium term projections suggest an improving outlook for the achievement of debt 
targets by the end of the Saca administration
.
Declining deficits broadly in line with those projected 
at the time of DPL I preparation would now lead to a projected 38.5% of GDP level by end-2009 (versus 
39.2% in the DPL I projections). A great share of this improvement is explained by a lower deficit in 
2005 and the upward revisions of GDP figures related to higher growth and oil-induced inflation. 
Growth is now expected to reach 3.5% in 2007-09 (versus 3.0% projected in the DPL I document) 
reflecting the greater than anticipated FDI flows in 2005 (now projected at 2.5% of GDP versus 1.5% at 
DPL I preparation) and the strong pickup in imports of capital goods, a result of the improved trade and 
investment outlook due to progress in the implementation of the administration’s economic plan, 
including DR-CAFTA approval and the credibility of fiscal management.  
While higher growth should facilitate continued progress in poverty reduction efforts in El 
Salvador, it is unlikely to be enough
.
The Government plan also recognizes that some of the poorest 
Salvadorans have been unable to take advantage of economic growth over the past decade and require 
special efforts in terms of improved targeting and additional resources in social programs. As already 
mentioned, the Government has proposed to implement a social protection program aimed at improving 
access to basic services and developing a safety net for the poorest and most vulnerable households.  In 
addition, the Government plans to continue to increase social spending gradually over the next five 
years.  
 
C. P
UBLIC 
S
ECTOR 
F
INANCIAL 
M
ANAGEMENT
 
Page  8
Important initiatives in e-Government have been launched to increase transparency and reduce 
the transaction costs of accessing public services
.
The “E-Pais” strategy, launched in July, builds 
upon existing e-Government initiatives implemented over the years, including the online payment of 
taxes and customs duties.  There are two elements from the strategy that directly contribute to 
transparency and reduced transaction costs are being developed with the support of a Bank-financed 
technical assistance loan: An online feature for the payment of a broad set of public services 
(“P@goes”), which will allow users to pay directly from the service provider’s websites using a variety 
of payment options, including credit cards; and a comprehensive e-procurement system (“Comprasal”), 
which will initially make information on Government purchases available to the public and eventually 
allow online transactions with suppliers.   The online payments feature was deployed jointly with one of 
the most important commercial banks in time for the payment of VAT obligations in mid-October 2005, 
and will be further expanded with other banks and services.  The information module of Comprasal 
(Módulo de Divulgación -- Moddiv) was launched in September 2005 in parallel with a major training 
exercise for Government institutions.  The strategy for the deployment of Comprasal calls for the 
development of the transactional modules during the first quarter of 2006. 
 
Page  9
The Government is also well poised to continue strengthening the public financial management 
(PFM) modernization process, based upon legislation that provides a sound framework for budget 
management processes
.
Looking forward, the recently completed Country Financial Accountability 
Assessment (CFAA), carried out jointly by the Bank and the IDB, identifies opportunities for 
improvement, such as: (i) gradual alignment with international good practices on fiscal transparency of 
budgetary documentation, e.g. the development of a medium-term budget framework, (ii) increased 
functional and institutional coverage of the integrated financial management and payroll management 
systems, (iii) reporting, consolidation and analysis of municipal budget data, (iv) enhanced coverage and 
content of external audits, and (v) more effective internal controls. A noteworthy step in this area has 
been the recent Government adoption of a framework for internal controls consistent with international 
standards, for which implementation is underway. The regulations have been issued and require that 
each public sector entity submits to the Controller of Accounts its project of specific technical internal 
control norms by September 2005, a requirement already fulfilled by the Ministry of Finance. With this 
action, the DPL 2 PFM-specific trigger identified under the program has been met.  
 
III.  
 
O
PERATION 
O
BJECTIVES
 
The proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL) would constitute the second in a programmatic series of  
up to four DPLs intended to support the Government's medium term development strategy to accelerate 
broad based and equitable economic growth and to contribute to the Government's objectives of (i) 
reigniting growth, particularly through increased private investment and trade, (ii) reinforcing 
macroeconomic stability and strengthening fiscal sustainability, and (iii) increasing the efficiency and 
transparency of public sector management.  
The proposed second DPL would focus mostly on addressing fiscal issues and on strengthening the 
international trade and business environment, for which it will draw on findings set forth in the CEM, 
PER, DR-CAFTA studies, as well as the Investment Climate Assessment.  It would also include follow 
up actions on public financial management and procurement regulations to ensure the gradual 
implementation of measures as prescribed in the CFAA and CPAR. It is expected that while the 
remaining two DPLs in the series will retain an overall emphasis on growth, greater attention will be 
given progress in strengthening the financial sector and on spurring new investments in the development 
and strengthening of key infrastructure.  
IV.   R
ATIONALE FOR 
B
ANK 
I
NVOLVEMENT
 
I
n
line with the Government’s medium term development strategy, the Country Assistance Strategy 
(CAS) for El Salvador approved in February 2005, comprises a strategic program of lending and non-
lending services specifically geared to support the Government’s development agenda: (i) to accelerate 
broad-based, equitable economic growth and increase employment; (ii) to improve equity through 
building human capital and expanding access to socioeconomic infrastructure, assets and markets; and 
(iii) to enhance security and reduce vulnerability. The proposed loan, the second in a programmatic 
series of four annual DPLs, would continue to support broadly the government’s reform efforts, relying 
on upfront actions instead of ex-post conditionalities, thereby allowing greater flexibility to follow up 
operations by recognizing that changing policy environments are difficult to anticipate.  
 
The proposed loan likewise presents the Bank with a significant opportunity to continue to foster a 
closer relationship with this regional reform leader. Ongoing policy dialogue in El Salvador would 
doubtless enrich the Bank’s experience in dealing with an advanced reformer facing second generation 
issues, which should prove invaluable to upgrade Bank assistance to other countries. A programmatic 
Page  10
series of DPLs is expected to facilitate congressional negotiations by demonstrating broad support for 
the government’s plan and cost savings with respect to financing alternatives. If successful, this would 
break with the pattern of lengthy approval delays that have become common for the Bank’s investment 
projects in El Salvador.   
 
V.   F
INANCING
 
The proposed loan in the amount of $100 million would constitute the second in a programmatic series 
of four DPLs totaling $400 million. The first DPL in the amount of $100 million was approved by the 
Board on February 22, 2005. At the Government’s request, the proposed second DPL, would be  aligned 
to El Salvador’s budget cycle, hence submission to Board and ultimate approval is programmed for mid 
December 2005. The DPL would be a Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) in US Dollars with level repayments of 
principal commitment-linked, LIBOR based variable interest rate, for a total of 21 years including a 1 
year grace period.  
 
VI.   I
NSTITUTIONAL AND 
I
MPLEMENTATION 
A
RRANGEMENTS
 
The proposed DPL would be implemented by the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency and the 
Ministry of Finance.  Other agencies that would play important roles include: the Central Bank and the 
Ministry of the Economy.  
 
VI
I
.
B
ENEFITS  AND 
R
ISKS
 
Benefits
 
–
The proposed DPL is an appropriate vehicle to help meet fiscal needs, support policy reforms 
to improve the outlook for economic growth and increase the efficiency and transparency of public 
sector management and further strengthen the Bank's relationship with El Salvador.  
 
¾
Meeting fiscal needs
.
Disbursement (projected early in calendar year 2006) of this proposed loan 
would help meet the Government’s objective of diversifying financing sources, as well as provide 
financing on more favorable terms than alternatives for its 2006 budget. This, in turn, would support 
the Government’s concurrent goals of fiscal stabilization and addressing social needs through 
increased and more efficient. 
¾
Improving the outlook for economic growth. 
The loan supports a broad agenda of measures anchored 
around El Salvador’s efforts to deepen its outward-development agenda, including its participation 
in DR-CAFTA. The agenda includes key actions of the complementary agenda of policy and 
institutional reforms to ensure that El Salvador can fully benefit from the opportunities of trade and 
greater integration into the world economy.  Key complementary actions include measures to 
facilitate the expansion of trade and investment levels, improvements in the investment climate, 
addressing infrastructure investment and services and promoting innovation and technology 
¾
Increasing the efficiency and transparency of public sector management. 
The loan supports public 
sector modernization efforts aimed at improving the efficiency of public expenditures, strengthen 
governance and fight corruption and foster with a specific focus on government procurement and 
financial management. Efforts in these areas are also expected to foster an environment more 
conducive to investment and growth. 
 
Risks
 
–
The long-term success of the proposed operation faces various risks, which can only be partially 
addressed in the context of this operation and the new CAS.  
 
Page  11
¾
Fiscal.  
El Salvador’s current NFPS debt burden increases its vulnerability to potential shocks. Such 
fiscal vulnerabilities are further compounded by its dollarized regime, which constrains potential 
macroeconomic policy responses in times of stress.  
¾
Political.  
Despite the strong electoral mandate obtained by President Saca in the ’04 elections, a 
divided Assembly could become an obstacle to important reforms and could delay ratification of 
DPL II.
 
¾
External.  
Sustained high oil prices or a new international recession could negatively affect El 
Salvador’s economy and worsen debt dynamics. In addition, given the increase in public debt of 
recent years, an increase in international interest rates poses risks of unexpected additional financing 
costs.
 
¾
Natural disasters.  
El Salvador
 
remains vulnerable to natural disasters (e.g., earthquakes, hurricanes 
and volcanoes) which can hinder overall economic performance in the short-term and may require 
significant unanticipated expenditures for emergency assistance and reconstruction. 
¾
Crime and violence. 
Continuing problems with crime and violence could also pose a risk to the 
achievement of the reform objectives. High levels of crime and violence have a direct negative 
economic and social impact, and also negatively affect the investment climate and overall image of 
the country.  
 
VIII. P
OVERTY AND 
S
OCIAL 
I
MPACTS AND 
E
NVIRONMENT 
A
SPECTS
 
1. Poverty and Social Impact Analysis  
 
All significant areas of the agenda supported by this operation that may have potentially negative 
social impacts have been studied and, where required, mitigation actions are underway
.
Of the 
major components that are supported in the program, the implementation of the DR-CAFTA agreement 
in 2006 has been subject to a PSIA, as it could exert negative future impacts on the incomes of some 
segments of Salvadoran society that have been hitherto protected.
 
However, as the PSIA results 
demonstrate, these potential impacts would take some time to materialize, as Central American 
negotiators obtained lengthy grace periods (5 to 10 years) and gradual phase out periods for sensitive 
commodities (up to 20 years). The study explored the static effects of the reduction in key agricultural 
prices, and came to the conclusion that in a worst case scenario, once all duty elimination commitments 
take place in 20 years, 4.1% of Salvadoran families could see their welfare level drop by an average of 
2.2%. Nearly 68% of families would see their welfare improve while another 28% would not see a 
significant change. The study recommends policy actions to protect the income of the potentially 
affected poor population, including actions to facilitate upgrading of production techniques and 
diversification.  
 
The Government has already launched programs to address the transition to free trade in 
potentially vulnerable sectors
.
The Government facilitated in early 2005 the creation of an agricultural 
reconversion fund (Fondo de la Reconversion del Sector Agropecuario y Agroindustrial - FOCAGRO), 
financed by processors of agricultural commodities and importers, aimed at technological upgrading and 
substitution activities for producers of grains and other products that could face increased competition 
when the grace periods negotiated in DR-CAFTA are exhausted. These actions complement 
Government policies to more proactively provide key public services to agriculture, which have been 
responsible for expansions in planted areas and bumper crops in 2005 in crops like cotton, fruits and 
vegetables.  
 
Page  12
Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) on the distributive impact of the 2004-5 fiscal reforms 
suggest that the results on the distribution of consumption of the changes approved in tax 
regulations are on the whole slightly progressive
,
without taking into account the more progressive 
expected impact of additional expenditures like FOSALUD (e.g., health centers for low income 
Salvadorans) as well as the public health effects of lower cigarette and liquor consumption. The study 
also notes the importance for the poor of reforms that reduce the likelihood of future fiscal crises which 
could lead to higher interest rates, lower growth and eventually greater welfare losses for the most 
vulnerable.  
Page  13
2. Environmental and Natural Resources Aspects 
 
The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not expected to entail significant 
impacts on the environment, forests or other natural resources.
 
However, to the extent that 
measures supported by the DPL program are successful, over time, in attracting new investment 
(including in infrastructure) and trade expansion, there will be a need to strengthen 
El Salvador’s 
national institutional capacity to identify and address environmental policy and regulatory issues. With 
this in mind, a strategic Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) was launched in the first semester of 
2005, with final results and recommendations expected to be delivered early in 2006. The results of the 
CEA can thus provide timely inputs for the preparation of subsequent loans in this programmatic DPL 
series. 
 
The CEA is reviewing the regulatory and institutional framework for environmental protection in 
El Salvador.
 
While DR-CAFTA is expected to improve enforcement of environmental norms and 
regulations due to explicit commitments in the treaty to this effect, future DPL operations are expected 
to give more emphasis to investments in infrastructure. In addition, improvements in the investment 
climate and the implementation of DR-CAFTA are expected to lead to greater levels of trade and 
investment, which could pose some challenges to El Salvador’s capacity to manage potential 
environmental risks. The ongoing CEA aims to analyze the efficiency and effectiveness of El Salvador’s 
environmental policy and institutional framework to address current and future environmental issues 
with special emphasis on those arising from trade liberalization and infrastructure investments. It is
 
expected to identify policy and institutional gaps and provide politically feasible and cost-effective 
recommendations and will help the Government address difficult trade-offs related to (i) protecting and 
restoring key environmental services essential for long–term sustainability, (ii) rapid short–term 
expansion of trade and infrastructure, (iii) reducing logistical and regulatory costs to improve 
competitiveness, and (iv) increasing social and corporate responsibility in the stewardship of the 
environment to meet national, regional, and global commitments. The CEA is being carried out in close 
coordination with the planned 
Recent Economic Developments in Infrastructure Report
 (REDI) 
diagnostic to provide the Government with particular recommendations that would be relevant as it 
pursues new policies to spur sustainable infrastructure development.  
IX.  C
ONTACT POINT
 
Contact: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo 
Title: Lead Economist and Task Manager  
Tel: (202) 473-3771 
Email: cjaramillo@worldbank.org 
 
IX. F
OR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT
:
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
