                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: NCO0000715




                 NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                 (IBRD-73480)




                                  ON A LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                                   FOR THE

                      SECOND BROAD-BASED GROWTH

                        DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                March 31, 2008




Economic Policy, PREM
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



                                      1

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        Currency Unit = US$ dollar


                    EL SALVADOR FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 to December 31st

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AECI      Spanish Cooperation Agency
CABEI     Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CEM       Country Economic Memorandum
DPL       Development Policy Loan
DR-CAFTA  Dominican Republic and Central America Free Trade Agreement
GOES      Government of El Salvador
IADB      Inter American Development Bank
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction Development
ICA       Investment Climate Assessment
ICR       Implementation and Completion Report
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
MDG       Millennium Development Goal
MIC       Middle Income Country
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PDOs      Development Objectives
PER       Public Expenditure Review
STP       Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
USAID     United States Agency for International Development




                       Vice President: Pamela Cox
                    Country Director: Laura Frigenti
                     Sector Manager: Rodrigo A. Chaves
                 Project Team Leader: Ana Lucia Armijos
                  NCO Team Leader : Ricardo A. Tejada




                                     2

                                                 EL SALVADOR
                          Second Programmatic Broad-Based Growth
                                          Development Policy Loan
                                                         DPL II


                                                     CONTENTS


Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information ............................................................................................4
 B. Key Dates......................................................................................................................... 4
 C. Ratings Summary............................................................................................................. 4
 D. Sector and Theme Codes.................................................................................................. 5
 E. Bank Staff......................................................................................................................... 5
 F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs........................................................................... 5

 1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design.................................................... 6
     Country Background......................................................................................................... 6
     Rationale for Bank Assistance.......................................................................................... 6
     Development Objectives and Prior Actions of DPL II..................................................... 7
     Implementation Arrangements.......................................................................................... 7
     Risk analysis ..................................................................................................................... 8
     Quality at Entry................................................................................................................. 9

 2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation. ............................................. 10
     Main Events Leading to Cancellation............................................................................. 10
     Steps Taken to Mitigate Problems.................................................................................. 11
     Implications of Loan Cancellation.................................................................................. 12

 3. Assessment of Bank Performance .................................................................................. 13

 4. Assessment of Borrower Performance............................................................................ 13

 5. Lessons Learned.............................................................................................................. 14

 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................... 16

 Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ............................................................................ 17




                                                               3

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Second Broad-Based
Country:              El Salvador              Project Name:           Growth Development
                                                                       Policy Loan
Project ID:           P094146                  L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-73480
NCO Date:             03/31/2008
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF EL
Lending Instrument:   DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                       SALVADOR
Original Total
                      USD 100.0M               Disbursed Amount:       USD 0.0M
Commitment:



Environmental Category: Not applicable
Implementing Agencies: Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None



B. Key Dates

     Process            Date              Process           Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:      09/08/2005     Signing:                     ....           3/15/2007
Appraisal:           11/07/2005     Effectiveness:            4/31/2006            ....
Approval:            12/13/2005     Closing:                  6/13/2006        06/13/2007



C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                      Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory




                                              4

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Capital markets                                                  5
Central government administration                               45
General finance sector                                          20
General industry and trade sector                               30


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                       Secondary
Legal institutions for a market economy                      Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement       Primary
Regulation and competition policy                              Primary
Tax policy and administration                                Secondary




E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At NCO                       At Approval
Vice President:             Pamela Cox                      Pamela Cox
Country Director:           Laura Frigenti                  Jane Armitage
Sector Manager:             Rodrigo A. Chaves               Mauricio Carrizosa
Program Team Leader:        Ana Lucia Armijos               Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
NCO Team Leader:            Ricardo Antonio Tejada
NCO Primary Author:         Ricardo Antonio Tejada




F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
No.      Date ISR
        Archived                   DO                     IP                 Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     05/15/2006              Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     06/21/2006       Moderately Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  3     12/27/2006       Moderately Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory                   0.00




                                                5

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD, briefly
describe the country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance, development
objectives, implementation arrangements, risk analysis, and quality at entry):

Country Background

        El Salvador is a middle income country (MIC) with a distinguished record of
structural reforms. Coming out of a costly decade-long civil war in the 1980s, its strong
record of economic reforms since the early 1990s has resulted in major benefits in terms of
macroeconomic stability, improved social conditions, trade liberalization and access to
international financial markets. The adoption of the U.S. dollar as legal tender in 2001 has
resulted in low inflation, reduced business uncertainty and low interest rates.

        While El Salvador has posted important gains toward meeting most of the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) targets since 1990, its major challenge remains
lifting economic growth rates, which have been low relative to other countries in Central
American since the late 1990s. The average GDP growth rate from 2000 to 2004 was merely
2.1%, but growth steadily improved in 2005 and reached 4.7% in 2007 ­ the highest growth
rate in a decade. Economic recovery was led by stronger performance in the tourism, non-
traditional agriculture, and the financial and transport sectors, buttressed by a return to
positive growth in construction.          Although the economy is now growing at double its
historical levels, growth is still below the Central American average, highlighting the need to
make further headway on the competitiveness reform agenda to sustain higher growth rates
over the medium term.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

        The El Salvador Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was approved in January 2005 to
cover FY05-FY08 and supported President Saca's "Safe Country" development plan, which
comprises interventions in the following three core areas or pillars: (i) accelerate broad-based
growth and increase employment; (ii) improve equity by building human capital and
expanding access to infrastructure, assets and markets; and (iii) enhance security and reduce
vulnerability (including better governance).

        In line with the Bank's overall strategy for well performing MICs, the bulk of Bank
financial assistance was expected to be delivered through a programmatic series of three
Development Policy Loans (DPLs) that were the backbone of the CAS base case scenario.1
El Salvador's past track record of sound macroeconomic management, significant policy and
institutional reforms and marked improvements in social indicators, as described in the CAS
document, made it a strong candidate to receive DPL assistance. The DPL operation
discussed in this report was the second in the series of programmatic DPLs.



1 Of the US$485 million base case CAS lending envelope, US$300 million was for a series of three
programmatic DPLs supporting the first and third pillars of the GOES plan. For details on the results of the
program supported by the DPL series, see "El Salvador ICR: Broad-Based Growth DPL. Report No. 00672"




                                                     6

        However, and due to the political gridlock that emerged in El Salvador and explained
in Section 2 of this report, only 20% of the original CAS envelope was committed, even
though the Government remained committed to advancing its development agenda. The Bank
reacted to this situation by adjusting its country assistance strategy to focus on: (i)
maintaining engagement while minimizing lending targets; (ii) leveraging non-lending and
regional work; (iii) mobilizing grant funds to provide inputs for dialogue among the
Government, legislature, and civil society on key development issues; and (iv) strengthening
partnerships with donors and civil society organizations (CSOs) in priority areas2.

Development Objectives and Prior Actions of DPL II

        As indicated in the program document, the DPL II operation intended to support the
Government's medium term development strategy to accelerate broad based and equitable
economic growth and to contribute to the Government's objectives of: (i) reigniting growth,
particularly through increased private investment and trade, (ii) reinforcing macroeconomic
stability and strengthening fiscal sustainability, and (iii) increasing the efficiency and
transparency of public sector management.

        Following on a successful initial DPL approved by the Bank's Board in February of
2005 and disbursed in September of that year, this second DPL focused mostly on addressing
fiscal issues and strengthening the international trade and business environment, drawing on
the CEM, the PER, the DR-CAFTA study and the ICA.

        As shown in Box 1 below, major actions supported through DPL II included
ratification of DR-CAFTA, approval of a new Consumer Protection Law, presentation of a
national law for securitization, approval of a fiscal reform to increase excise taxes,
formulation of 2006 budget consistent with medium term fiscal targets, issuance of new rules
on loan classification and provisioning for financial institutions, issuance of new
procurement regulations and measures to implement the e-Government strategy and the
public financial management program.

Implementation Arrangements

        The design of DPL II took into account the lessons learned from past operations in El
Salvador, as well as the prevailing thinking on Development Policy Lending for well
performing middle income countries. The underlying principles of this operation were: (i)
Upfront action instead of ex-post conditionality; (ii) Support of reform program instead of
specific conditionality and (iii) Aligning program loans with budgetary cycle. Overall, and
as required with Bank policy, El Salvador's fiduciary environment was evaluated and
deemed appropriate for budget support lending.

        The Government of El Salvador (GOES) and the Bank agreed to monitor progress in
the DPL program regularly, including during the annual reviews of CAS progress.
Discussions were held with the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, the main counterpart


2El Salvador CAS Progress Report of February 2008. Report No. 41122-SV


                                                   7

agency for the DPL program, who was in charge of overall policy monitoring and for
collecting from the appropriate sources the data necessary to assess implementation progress.
Other agencies that were supposed to play an important role in this process were the Central
Bank (for financial sector issues), the Ministry of Economics (for trade and investment
climate issues) and the Ministry of Finance (taxes and public sector management issues).


                  Box 1 - Policy and Institutional Reforms supported by DPL series in El Salvador
                                   DPL I                                                       DPL III
       Areas of Action      (disbursed in Sep-                    DPL II                 (never prepared as
                                   2005)                (cancelled in June 2007)        DPL II was cancelled)
                          ·DR-CAFTA treaty          ·Ratification of DR-CAFTA and      ·Creation of
                          signed and                launch of programs to ensure       Superintendence of
                          dissemination             broad participation in its         Competition
                          programs launched         benefits ·Securitization Law       ·Expansion of the
       Reigniting         ·Implementation of        approved by the National            Centro de Trámites
       Growth             Competition Law           Assembly                            Empresariales outside
                          ·Creation of the Centro   ·Consumer Protection Law           of San Salvador
                          de Trámites               approved by the National           ·Creation of the
                          Empresariales             Assembly                           Consumer Protection
                                                                                       Agency
                          ·Implementation of the    ·Increase of excise taxes
                          fiscal reform package     approved by the Assembly and       ·Banks began
                          approved in 2004          later successfully implemented     implementation of new

       Macroeconomic                                ·Issue budget formulation policy   rules on loan

       Stability and      ·Elimination of early     for 2006 consistent with a NFPS    classification,

       Fiscal             retirement provisions     deficit target of 2.3% of GDP      provisioning and credit

       Consolidation      to improve                ·Issuance of new rules on loan     risk administration
                          sustainability of the     classification, provisioning and
                          public pensions system    credit risk administration          ·NFPS deficit at 3% of
                                                    consistent with international best GDP for 2005
                                                    practices
                          ·Launch of an e-          ·Progress in implementing the e-   ·201 public institutions
                          Government strategy       Government strategy. Launch        including all central
                          ·Issuance of              and implementation of the          Government ministries
                          operational directives    payments portal and module for     use the Dissemination

       Better             for procurement unit      publication and dissemination of   Module (MODDIV)

       Governance         UNAC ·Ministry of         public bids (MODDIV)                ·Expansion and
                          Finance adopted public    ·Issuance of implementing          implementation of SAFI
                          sector internal control   regulations for Procurement        in all Central
                          norms consistent with     Law ·Ministry of Finance           Government institutions
                          international standards   finalized its project for internal and ISSS
                                                    control system regulation




Risk analysis

        A number of critical risks were identified during project preparation and explained in
the DPL II Program Document. The report also warned that these risks could only be
partially addressed in the context of the DPL II and the new CAS. The main risks as
originally identified were:

Political risk: A divided National Assembly was expected to become an obstacle to important
reforms, despite the strong electoral mandate obtained by President Saca. When DPL II was



                                                           8

prepared, the Executive's approach to consensus building appeared to be on the right track,
as witnessed by the approval major reforms, although political obstacles to reform were not
fully ruled out (including that of delayed ratification of public loans by the National
Assembly). The Government expected that a concurrent submission of the DPLs and the
annual budget or soon after to the National Assembly will give it the leverage needed for
prompt loan ratification.

Fiscal risk: El Salvador's NFPS debt burden of 41% of GDP projected at end 2005 increased
its vulnerability to potential shocks. Given this increase in public debt, an increase in
international interest rates poses moderate risks of unexpected additional financing costs.

External risk: Sustained high oil prices or a new international recession could negatively
affect El Salvador's economy and worsen debt dynamics. In addition, given the increase in
public debt of recent years, an increase in international interest rates poses risks of
unexpected additional financing costs, albeit limited, given that 60% of public debt is at fixed
interest rates.

Natural disaster risk: El Salvador remains vulnerable to natural disasters (e.g., earthquakes,
hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, and floods) which can hurt the performance of the economy
and the soundness of the financial system in the short-term, and may require significant
unanticipated expenditures for emergency assistance and reconstruction.

Crime and Violence risk: Continuing problems with crime and violence in El Salvador could
also pose a risk to the achievement of the reform objectives. High levels of crime and
violence have a direct negative economic and social impact, and also negatively affect the
investment climate and overall image of the country.

Quality at Entry

        As the second in a series of programmatic DPLs, quality at entry was not evaluated
for this operation. However, it incorporated the lessons learned during the preparation of the
first DPL, which was found to be a best practice operation by both QAG and OPCS. As
indicated in the Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) of DPL I, the panel rated the operation
as (1) Highly Satisfactory in terms of: Strategic Relevance and Approach; Structural,
Financial and Macroeconomic Aspects; Fiduciary Aspects; Policy and Institutional Aspects;
and Bank Inputs and Processes. Other aspects rated (2) Satisfactory were as follows: Poverty,
Gender, and Social Development; Implementation Arrangements; and Risk Assessment. The
operation was rated Highly Satisfactory because of strong country ownership at the time of
appraisal, which includes both the ruling and opposition parties; the high-quality and well
focused preparatory AAA program that supported it; first-rate in-country consultation and
dissemination; and coherence and clarity of articulation of the program.




                                               9

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

         It is important to bear in mind from the outset that the DPL II operation was cancelled
by the Bank due to the non-ratification of the loan by the National Assembly of El Salvador,
and not due to weak implementation or reversal of the policy reforms supported by the loan.3
The DPL II project was approved by the Board on December 13, 2005 and the Loan
Agreement was signed on March 15, 2007. Subsequently, in various sessions, the Loan was
presented to, and discussed by, the National Assembly of El Salvador, but due to the political
gridlock explained further below, the loan was never ratified within the 18 months deadline
after Board Approval. As a result, the Bank terminated the Loan Agreement as of June 13,
2007.

         The following sections describe the political environment at the time of CAS and loan
processing and how the Bank team had appropriately identified political polarization as a
source of risk for the loan. Then, they describe how the Bank team deployed all possible
mitigation actions and, finally, provide information on the implications of loan cancellation
and the Government's efforts to find alternative sources of financing to continue the
implementation of the policy reform program supported by the DPL series.

Main Events Leading to Cancellation

         The Bank CAS for FY05-FY08 period contemplated an expanded lending program,
including a series of DPLs and investment operations in selective areas which build upon
prior successful operations in El Salvador. When the CAS was approved, El Salvador's
political panorama was characterized by a Government that enjoyed enough support in the
National Assembly to get legislation through, including approval of new public loans. This
was evidenced by the fact that the first loan delivered by the Bank under the CAS, the first
DPL, was approved and subsequently ratified by Congress.

         Given the early support in Government enjoyed in the National Assembly, it was
reasonable to believe that the political-polarization risk was manageable. At the same time,
given a history of difficult relations between the governing party and the opposition, the CAS
and each individual operation prepared by the Bank identified possible political gridlock as a
source of risk to our interventions. In the case of the DPLs, it was expected that a




3El Salvador's Constitution requires the Assembly's approval for public loans guaranteed by the State. The
approval procedure comprises a two-step process: First, the "approval" of the loan occurs prior to Government
signing of the loan agreement and requires a simple majority in the National Assembly (50% plus 1). The
second step, called "ratification" of the loan, occurs after signing the loan agreement but prior to loan
effectiveness and requires a two-thirds majority vote in the National Assembly.




                                                       10

simultaneous submission to the Assembly of the loans (within the annual budget cycle),
would have give it the leverage needed for prompt loan ratification.

        After the mid-term congressional elections in March 2006, however, political
polarization in El Salvador increased rapidly, as did the Government's inability to assure
ratification of the loan. This change in the political environment occurred prior to the second
review of the DPL II in the National Assembly, the round that requires a two-thirds majority
vote. The extremely high levels of political polarization that resulted exceeded the Bank's
expectations and seriously limited Government's ability to attain a two-thirds majority in the
National Assembly. As a result, the main opposition party, comprising 38 percent of
Congress, exercised its veto power affecting five Bank loans (including DPL II), as well as
other multilateral loans from IADB, CABEI and IFAD for a total of US$500 million in
cancelled multilateral loans.4

Steps Taken to Mitigate Problems

        As explained above, the politically tense relations with some sectors of the National
Assembly were expected to delay prompt ratification of external loans and therefore the risk
of political polarization for loan approval was included in the DPL II Project Document. A
mitigation strategy was prepared together with the Executive to address such political risks
through the design of the DPL series (submission of DPL financing along with the budget
cycle) and through active communication among members of the National Assembly,
especially those in the opposition. The Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (STP), the
Ministry in charge of negotiations with the National Assembly, along with the Bank collected
and provided all the relevant information to make the case for ratification of the loan,
including design elements based on international best practice for the policy reforms
supported by the DPL II operation as well as the rationale for a budget support operation.

        As the political polarization continued to increase beyond the original expectations,
STP and the Bank defined and implemented an even more intense mitigation strategy which
initially paid off as the first stage of the loan ratification process was successful and the loan
was approved in the National Assembly via a simple majority vote. As outlined below, this
strategy included:

    · Technical Information and Outreach: Providing the National Assembly technical
        analysis on external loans' impact on achieving and accelerating El Salvador's
        poverty reduction goals and expected benefits for the target population. In addition,
        this outreach effort targeted a broad rage of local stakeholders, including the media,
        direct beneficiaries and academia, through an active local communication strategy
        leaded by the World Bank Resident Mission in El Salvador (including revamping the
        Bank's country website as a permanent source of information).




4For a detailed explanation of this outcome, see El Salvador CAS Progress Report of February 2008. Report No.
41122-SV




                                                      11

    · Management Follow Up: Top World Bank Management missions visited El
        Salvador to support loan ratification, including LAC's Regional Vice-president and
        the Country Director. Regular in-situ follow up by the World Bank Resident Mission
        for all IBRD loans with congressmen of both official and opposition parties in the
        National Assembly, especially with the members of the Financial and Budget
        Commission and other relevant sub-committees.


        In coordination with the other multilateral development banks that were also affected
by the political impasse, the Bank made all possible efforts to help build the necessary
support in the National Assembly. While the relevant stakeholders in the Assembly openly
recognized the technical merits of Bank projects on economic and social policy grounds,
opposition party members refused to support ratification of the loan due to the increasing
polarization around a range of other domestic issues. As a result, the Executive (STP) was
never able to assemble a sufficient number of positive votes to achieve ratification of the
project.

Implications of Loan Cancellation

        In line with Bank policy, all DPL II prior actions were completed by the GOES
before loan approval. However, to implement the programs originally supported by other
cancelled Bank loans, the Government mobilized alternative funding sources that did not
require approval of a qualified majority in Congress. The Government issued local bonds
through the recently created Pension Trust to replace DPL borrowing and created the
Education and Security Trust (FINEP) to fund the Bank's share of its education program.
Bilateral grants were raised to fund other social programs (i.e. Red Solidaria) and even
lending to finance the land administration reform project was obtained from a regional
multilateral bank (CABEI) but without a sovereign guarantee.

        Unfortunately, in some cases, this funding was obtained at higher costs than the
originally anticipated multilateral financing5. For example, FINEP will issue domestic bonds
with a five year bullet maturity and an interest rate equal to the six month LIBOR plus a
margin of 1.4%. According to the FUSADES think tank, FINEP bonds will cost at least an
additional US$50 million in present value terms compared to loans from multilateral and
bilateral organizations. Other alternative financing sources, however, will not entail such a
high fiscal cost. Interest rates for CABEI loans are only about 1% higher than those offered
by the IADB and World Bank and have comparable repayment terms. The bilateral grants
that will finance the Red Solidaria program are a less expensive option than multilateral
loans originally prepared for this program.




5The macroeconomic and fiscal implications of this higher cost of financing are explained in Annex 1 of "El
Salvador CAS Progress Report of February 2008. Report No. 41122-SV".




                                                     12

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance role,
compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):

Rating: Satisfactory

        The Bank performance is rated satisfactory given: (i) the strategic relevance and
approach of the operation in terms of policy, financial and macroeconomic aspects; (ii) the
high-quality and well focused of preparatory AAA program that supported it; and (iii) the
Bank's appropriate identification of political polarization, ex-ante, as a source of risk and its
mitigation strategies, which were followed by proactive risk management work when an
unexpected political scenario played out following El Salvador's 2006 mid-term
Congressional elections.

        During the loan discussion process in the National Assembly, the Bank's team was
proactive in supporting the Government of El Salvador towards identifying ways to stay
engaged in the process (via non-lending technical assistance), so as to ensure that
Development Objectives of the DPL program could still be pursued and achieved. In that
context, the Bank supported the GOES with a PHRD technical assistance grant6 to advance
the policy reforms supported by the planned DPL III operation. Specifically, the grant
supported the completion of the first institutionally-centered Strategic Environmental
Assessment, supporting the main infrastructure project in El Salvador's impoverished
northern zone. In addition, the grant supported the first phase of the Public Debt management
Technical Assistance program under the guidance of the WB Treasury Department, which is
also helping the GOES build institutional capacity in this area. Finally, through the support
given to the Special Technical Commission for Fiscal Policy, the grant also promoted high
quality technical dialogue between the National Assembly and the Executive on several
important fiscal issues related to the debt policy, fiscal transparency and public investment.


4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Although the DPL II loan was not ratified by the National Assembly and therefore its
disbursement never took place, the Government of El Salvador implemented before loan
approval all prior policy actions of the project as originally designed. Therefore, the
performance of the GOES, including STP and other relevant Ministries is considered
moderately satisfactory. Indeed, if judged purely on the basis of implementation of the
policy reform program supported by DPL II, borrower performance would merit a
satisfactory rating giving its ongoing commitment to the policy reform program. However,



6PHRD Grant for Preparation of Development Policy Loan III, Grant No.TF056578.




                                                  13

the rating has been moderated to reflect the fact that the GOES did not adequately raise the
political consensus required to ratify the loan in the National Assembly.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

        The cancellation of five Bank projects despite nearly two years of intensive efforts to
build consensus around the developmental benefits that such projects were to achieved,
provide important implications to Bank operations in Latin America (LAC). These lessons
can be grouped as follows:

        Working Across Different Branches of Government: traditionally, Bank operations
are planned and prepared with the Executive branch of the Government and the Legislative
branch is never informed nor consulted during the process of project preparation. While this
is a good approach to ensure prompt project preparation, the fact that our loans could end up
trapped in congress due to political reasons is increasingly present. Just like it is done during
CAS preparation and in coordination with main government counterparts, a project level
consultation process should take place at the congressional level making sure that relevant
views are received and, if technically appropriate for the project, take into account. At the
very least, such approach would convey the message that the Bank is an objective, technical
player, ready to work and discuss with any given Government as long as the common goals
of poverty reduction are pursued as well.

        Importance of a Proactive Communication Strategy: Local outreach and
communication strategies should be implemented in every project, as well as at the portfolio
level. Information, education and communication (IEC) strategies are key risk mitigation
components in highly politicized environments, as inaccurate (and sometime false)
information on Bank projects is used to justify why multilateral lending should not be
pursued in a given country. In El Salvador, IEC strategies were useful in communicating the
proposed loan objectives and potential impact to all the political parties and education
stakeholders. Although the loan ratification in the National Assembly--given a highly
politicized environment--did not materialize, other benefits did result. For example, the
Bank's Task Team created strategic alliances with donors, cooperation agencies and key
stakeholders in order to communicate the project's objectives and create a broader support
within the development community of El Salvador.

        Political Polarization in Latin America: One broad lesson learned to reflect on is the
changing socio-political environment in Latin America. The region is today characterized by
an increasingly polarized political environment. The Bank continues to have a role to play in
this context; however, it needs to define a strategy to work with clients through out the
political and ideological spectrum existent in Latin America today.

        El Salvador represents this trend, were two major parties contemplate different
approaches to development, and to the role of international assistance (other countries may
include Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia, but also traditional client countries such as Costa
Rica, Mexico, and Brazil). A major lesson learned through the El Salvador impasse is that



                                               14

the Bank must heed the growing evidence of the changing socio-political environment in
Latin America and identify the implications for our services and strategic engagement in the
region.

       Bank New Role in Countries with Alternative Sources of Financing: Another lesson
learned is the high demand of Bank's technical assistance in El Salvador, even with the non-
approval of the Bank loan. El Salvador did identify alternative sources of finance for all of
the projects affected by the political deadlock in the National Assembly, but still has
demanded Bank technical support to carry out these programs. It is clear through the El
Salvador case that the Bank's know-how, expertise, access to international knowledge and
lessons learned did contribute to the design, implementation and evaluation of the GOES
development programs. Thus, the Bank needs to define more strategically our changing
services, independently of loan financing. The Bank's poverty eradication mission can also
be served by responding to the growing demands for knowledge sharing and technical
support, especially from middle-income countries such as El Salvador.

       Project Management in Highly Political Contexts: Managing projects in highly
political environments is not easy on task teams; it requires varied skills, top management
support, alliance building, and knowing the limits of Bank influence. Skills required include
not only our traditional sector, economic, social and financial assessments and know-how; it
requires as well negotiation strategies, conflict resolution skills, self-management, and
alliance building competencies. In the El Salvador case, although delays in project's
effectiveness due to political polarization were identified as a critical risk, the political
climate in the National Assembly after the 2006 mid-term congressional elections was clearly
beyond the project team's capacities to deal with and influence, even with a proactive stance.




                                             15

      Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                             Title                 Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Aquiles A. Almansi                  Sr Financial Economist         LCSPF      Financial Sector
Fabiola Altimari Montiel                    Counsel                LEGLA           Legal
Ana Lucia Armijos                      Senior Economist            LCSPE      Macroeconomist
Carlos Felipe Jaramillo                 Lead Economist             LCC2C        Team Leader
Maria Del Carmen Minoso               Operations Officer           LCSPS        Operations
Sonia C. Molina                        Program Assistant           LCC2C          Support
Jordan Z. Schwartz               Senior Infrastructure Specialist  LCSTR       Infrastructure
Mario Francisco Sangines         Senior Public Sector Specialist   ECSPE        Public Sector
Manuel Sevilla                           Sector Leader             LCSFP      Competitiveness
Ricardo Antonio Tejada                 Research Analyst            LCSPE     Debt Sustainability
Evelyn Villatoro                     Sr Procurement Spec.          LCSPT        Procurement
Manuel Vargas                   Sr Financial Management Specia     LCSFM Financial Management

Supervision/NCO
Alberto Leyton                        Country Manager              LCCSV            ....
Ana Lucia Armijos                     Senior Economist             LCSPE            ....
J. Humberto López                      Lead Economist              LCC2C            ....
Ricardo Antonio Tejada                Research Analyst             LCSPE            ....
Sonia C. Molina                       Program Assistant            LCC2C             ....

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                                        16.41
  FY06                                           19                          117.64
  FY07                                                                         0.00
                             Total:              19                          134.05
Supervision/NCO
  FY05                                                                         0.00
  FY06                                             2                          11.47
  FY07                                             5                          25.31
                             Total:                7                          36.78




                                               16

                        Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank

1. Project Concept Note
2. Program Document of the First Broad Based Growth DPL (Report No. 31203-SV)
3. Program Document of the Second Broad Based Growth DPL (Report No. 34020-SV)
4. Project Information Document of the Second Broad Based Growth DPL
5. El Salvador: Implementation Completion Report - Programmatic Broad-Based Growth
   Development Support Loan ­ (P093133). Report No: ICR0000672

Government of El Salvador

6. Informe de Evaluación del Prestatario, Préstamo Programático BIRF No. 7275-ES
   (DPL1). Secretaría Técnica de la Presidencia, Marzo 2008.
7. Informe de Auditoría Financiera y de Gestión al Programa de Políticas de Crecimiento y
   Desarrollo en El Salvador, Préstamo BIF No. 7275. Corte de Cuentas de la República,
   Septiembre 2007.




                                            17

