Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14394-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
June 6, 1995
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 12, 1995)'
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$0,91 = US$1.00
R$1,00 = US$1.10
R$1 million = US$1.1 million
FISCAL YEAR
(State of Sergipe)
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHIS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
Appraisal mission.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGEPE
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APCR              Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais
(Program of Support to Small Rural Communities under the original
Northeast Rural Development Program)
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
EMATER            Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency)
FAO/CP            World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC             Conselho Municipal de Apoio Comunitirio
(Municipal Community Schemes)
FUMAC-P           Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario - Piloto
(Pilot Municipal Community Funds)
GOB               Governo Federal do Brasil
(Federal Government of Brazil)
IBGE              Funda,co Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
HICA              Instituto Interamericano de Coopera,co para a Agricultura
(Inter-american Institute for Agricultural Cooperation)
IPEA              Instituto de Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada
(Institute of Applied Economic Research of the Secretariat of Planning
of the Presidency of the Republic)
MIS               Sistema Gerencial de Informa,6es
(Management Information System)
NCB               Licitaqao Nacional
(National Competitive Bidding)



NGO               Organizagao Nao-Governamental
(Non-Governmental Organization)
NRDP              Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural do Nordeste
(Northeast Rural Development Program)
O&M               Operaqao e Manutencao
(Operation and Maintenance)
PAC               Programa de Apoio Comunitario
(State Community Schemes)
PCU               Unidade Coordenadora do Projeto
(Project Coordinating Unit)
POA               Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
POLONORDESTE  Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado do Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Development Program)
PPR               Physical Performance Review
PRONESE           Projeto Nordeste do Estado de Sergipe
(Northeast Program of the State of Sergipe)
SEAIN             Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
(Secretariat of International Affairs of the Ministry of Planning of the
Presidency of the Republic)
SEPLAN            Secretaria do Planejamento e da Ciencia e Tecnologia
(State Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology)
SOEs              Prestaqao de Contas
(Statements of Expenditure)
SSMP              Sistema Simplificado do Monitoramento do Projeto
(Simplified Project Monitoring System)
UT                Unidade Tecnica
Technical Unit



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.     RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL. THE NORTHEAST AND SERGIPE  ...                          ....  1
The Rural Poor and the Economy  ..............................  1
Rural Poverty in the Northeast ...........................                       ..1
Experience with Past Bank Lending.                                                     3
The State of Sergipe.                                                                  5
Main Lessons Learned from the Northeast Rural Development Program.                     7
II.    THE PROJECT..9 ....................                                      ........ 9
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement .. ..    9
Project Objectives ....  9
Project Components    ......................................  10
A. Community Subprojects ..                                                    10
Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC) ......... 11
Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P) ...              ...... 11
State Community Schemes (PAC) ..                                       11
B. Institutional Development ..                                                12
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation .. .    13
Decentralization and Thrgeting  ................................ 14
Decentralization ..                                                            14
Project Targeting ................                                             14
Project Coordination Arrangements ..                                                  14
Froject Coordinating Unit ..                                                   14
Project Municipal Councils            ..                                       16
This report incorporates the findings of a Bank mission which visited Brazil in March-April, 1995. The
mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. L. Coirolo (Mission Leader, Portfolio Manager), T. Barbosa (Task
Manager, Economist), R. Caminha (Agriculturalist), J. Barbosa (Agriculturalist), M. Rieth (Economist),
J. van Zyl (Agricultural Economist), L. Sonn (Economist, FAO/CP), J.C. Sallier (Civil Engineer,
Consultant) and V. Valle (Staff Assistant). The report also benefited from contributions from A. Roumani
(Rural Development Specialist) and C. Bryant (Institutional Specialist). The Division Chief is M. Wilson
(LAINR) and the Department Director, G. T. Nankani (LA1DR). Peer reviewers are J. Tendler,
(Professor of Political Economy, MIT) and T. Jones (LA1HR).



TABLE OF CONTENIS
(Continued)
Project Implementation Arrangements  ........................... 16
Community Subproject Cycle ......................... 16
Project Operational Manual . ........................ 17
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) ........................ 18
Operational Checks and Balances ........................   18
M onitoring  ........ .........       .  .   ..................  18
Project Costs                             . ..........                     19
Financing Plan  ........  ... .            . . . . . . . .19
Procurement ......................21
Disbursements and Special Account .......................... 23
Accounts and Audits ......................... 23
Environmenital Aspects ......................... 24
Poverty Category  ......................................... 24
Women's Participation.. .                          ..........  25
Project Benefits.. .                                .........  25
Project Risks.. .                                   ......... 26
II1.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .... 27
ANNEXES:
I.  Socio-Economic Indicators .                                                  29
2.    The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation .31
3     Targeting Mechanisms and Project Municipalities .52
4.  Institutional Development .55
5. The FUMAC-P Pilot Program .60
6.  Subproject Operation and Maintenance .                                       63
7.    Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation .65
8.    Project Costs, Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedule .73
9.  Project Operational Manual (Outline) .77
10. Supervision Plan .79
11.   List of Documents Available in Project Files .81
MAP: IBRD No. 26945



BRAZII,
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       State of Sergipe
Guara'tor:                     Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:            Administrative Unit for the Sergipe Northeast Project
(PRONESE), of the Sergipe State Secretariat of
Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLAN)
Beneficiaries:                  Poor rural community associations, including a target
population of 330,000 people (about 66,000 families)
Poverty:                        Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                         US$36 million equivalent
Terms:                         Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:                0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable
Financing Plan:                 See Annex 8, Table 8.2
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 14394-BR
Map:                           IBRD No. 26945
Project Identification No.:    BR-PA-38885






I. RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST AND SERGIPE
The Rural Poor and the Economy
1.1         Poverty in Brazil has a strong rural and regional dimension. Around 50 percent
of the Brazilian poor live in rural areas, and the incidence of poverty among the rural population
is more than double that in large cities and urban areas. Economic instability over the past two
decades has been a major obstacle to redressing rural poverty. The implicit tax resulting from
inflation has penalized the poor disproportionately.  Real economic growth fell from  9 %
annually in the 1970s to 2.7% in the 1980s, and for more than a decade there was little
improvement in standards of living. Economic and sectoral policies did not provide support for
sustainable investment, as a consequence savings fell, inflation accelerated, and consumer prices
increased as much as 30% a month. Six separate attempts at adjustment between 1986 and 1994
failed. Austerity programs associated with the different adjustment attempts cut back investment
for rural development, in particular for primary education, targeted health interventions, rural
rcads, water supply and small farner agricultural services. Migration from rural areas in the
1980s and early 1990s--motivated by unemployment, underemployment and lack of social and
other services--created an enormous new burden on urban centers, and underscored the urgency
of addressing rural poverty to stem its conversion into an urban poverty phenomenon.
1.2         Introduction of the Plano Real in July 1994 has achieved some degree of
macroeconomic stabilization, with the annual inflation rate already decreasing to a fraction of
its former level. However, in the short to medium term, stabilization also implies a very strong
fiscal adjustment with tightening of government expenditures, high real interest rates and, hence,
a deepening of the investment pause in the farm and rural sector. The consequences in terms
of rural employment and social services may be quite serious, and clearly call for offsetting
safety net actions. While successful macroeconomic adjustment should promote longer-term
economic growth with benefits extending to rural areas, international experience shows that
targeted programs and policies for the socio-economic development of the poor remain an
essential complement to the adjustment process.'
Rural Poverty in the Northeast
1.3          The Northeast has long constituted the single largest area of rural poverty in Latin
America. This Region, covering nine states and part of a tenth,2 accounts for 19% of Brazil's
total land area and 30% of its 147 million population. More than half of all Brazilians living
in poverty, and almost two-thirds of the country's rural poor, live in the Northeast. According
to a recent study by the Ministry of Planning and Budget, some 12 million rural inhabitants of
1.    Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division, March 31, 1995.
2.    The Northeast Region includes the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and Bahia and the northern part of the State of Minas Gerais.



-2-
the Northeast live in extreme poverty, with annual per capita incomes under US$214 (less than
one-tenth of the national average). Among the underlying causes of rural poverty in the
Northeast are the relatively poor resource base of large parts of the region and variable agro-
climatic conditions which make them vulnerable to drought. Skewed access to land and the
virtual absence of a functioning rural financial system for the poor are additional constraints.
Northeast agriculture is characterized by limited input use and slow rates of technology adoption.
Productivity is low, with output per farm worker less than half that of other regions. Overall
Northeast agricultural GDP growth was negligible during 1991-1994.
1.4          About 40% of the Northeast's rural population lives in the interior semi-arid zone
characterized by poor soils and severe, cyclical and often protracted drought. The "drought
polygon" in the semi-arid region includes most of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pemambuco and Bahia, and smaller proportions of all the other Northeastern states except
Maranhao. The remainder of the rural population lives in areas which are generally more humid
and have better soils, the coastal belt and the drought-prone transitional zone between the coast
and the semi-arid area. The rural economy revolves around food crops including fruits and
vegetables, extensive livestock grazing by larger farmers, and, as a consequence of the uncertain
climate and market fluctuations, basic food production and small-scale animal husbandry by
tenants, sharecroppers, landless laborers and small farm  owners.  The rural poor in the
Northeast rely increasingly on a complex of activities--traditional subsistence agriculture, cash
crops (mainly cotton and cashew), casual agricultural and non-agricultural work, and remittances
from family members living in cities.
1.5         Health and social indicators attest to the poor quality of life in the Northeast,
compared to the rest of Brazil. The region has: (i) an infant mortality rate of 75 per 1000 live
births, compared to a national average of 58; (ii) a rate of child malnutrition at 27% (of children
under five), compared to 13% nationwide; (iii) a literacy rate for heads of household of 56%,
compared to 78% nationwide; (iv) 57% of households lacking water supply compared to 28%
nationwide; and (v) 73 % of households without access to proper sanitation facilities, compared
to 46% nationwide.3
1.6          The new Brazilian administration is preoccupied with the level of poverty
nationwide, but particularly in the Northeast and its rural areas, and has declared the Northeast
a priority for public development programs. The cornerstone of the Federal Government's effort
to combat poverty and hunger in Brazil is the recently announced Comunidade Solidaria
program, a broad framework for the coordination of rural and urban poverty programs and
projects, focusing on municipalities where poverty is most severe. Implementation would be
decentralized, stressing community self-help and local empowerment, and concentrating on four
main themes: rural development, income and employment generation, food and nutrition, and
urban services. The proposed Sergipe Rural Poverty Alleviation Project is fully consistent with
this strategy, parts of which draw heavily on the Bank-supported NRDP experience in Northeast
Brazil (para 1.12-1.16).
3. Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division, March 31, 1995.



- 3 -
1.7         The proposed project would also be a timely complement to important changes
in the political economy of Brazil, stemming from the new federalism embodied in the
Constitution of 1988.  Fiscal resources, priority setting and program  implementation
responsibilities are increasingly being decentralized from the Federal Government to the states,
municipalities and local populations. This encouraging trend should help avoid many of the
financial and managerial problems which generations of Northeast poverty programs encountered
under centralized coordination and implementation arrangements. Much of the Bank's dialogue
and lending for poverty, including in rural development, health and education, have now shifted
to the states, with the role of the Federal Government being redefined to stress more strategic
functions, such as broad policy and norm setting and financial transfer schemes to improve
equity.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
1.8         The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
financing schemes to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast. The World Bank has been
associated for many years with these efforts, through its financing of a series of programs and
projects, including area-specific and state rural development projects, various sectoral operations
and a regional rural development program.
1.9         Historically, rural development programs in the Northeast have coalesced around
two themes: drought relief and the integrated development of selected areas. The first involved
emergency relief programs or projects to increase the productivity of scarce water resources,
including large public irrigation schemes. While the budgetary impact of these projects has been
tremendous, their poverty effects have been limited and often temporary. The second approach,
that of integrated subregional development programs, included initiatives like the Sertanejo
project and the Bank-financed POLONORDESTE projects of the 1970s and early 1980s.
1.10        POLONORDESTE. The POLONORDESTE operations concentrated on specific
microregions within each of the nine Northeast states and northern Minas Gerais. They were
comprehensive, multisectoral projects designed to improve agricultural efficiency, raise rural
incomes and increase employment.  They typically included components for agricultural
modernization (extension, research, credit, marketing, land administration), infrastructure (rural
water supply, roads and irrigation) and social investments (education, health and community
development).    Many  important sectoral initiatives  were  first piloted  under the
POLONORDESTE projects:  farm management extension techniques; integrated farm unit
research for small-scale agriculture, rather than crop-based research; a wide range of land
redistribution initiatives and modem land titling technologies; educational curriculum and school
calendar reforms for rural areas; and community-based primary health care schemes.
1.11        Nevertheless, evaluation of POLONORDESTE by the Bank in the early 1980s
showed that, in the aggregate, they had only a limited impact on poverty. The micro-regions
supported by the Bank projects were relatively small areas in the context of the whole Northeast;
poverty targeting mechanisms were weak; and delivery mechanisms relied exclusively on federal
and state bureaucracies.  The Federal Government frequently failed to provide adequate



- 4 -
counterpart funds and delayed the release of budgeted amounts, with damaging effects on the
projects given Brazil's chronically high inflation. Consequently, less than one-third of project
funds reached intended beneficiaries, as seriously reduced budgets were absorbed by
administration and overheads.
1.12        Sectoral Loans and the Northeast Rural Development Program.   These
considerations prompted the Bank and Federal Government to change strategies in the mid-
1980s.  On the one hand, the lessons learned from  some of the pilot efforts under
POLONORDESTE were promising, but it was felt that these needed to be expanded
geographically and supported by broader sector policy reforms, within the framework of single-
sector operations unencumbered by the coordination and implementation difficulties of multiple
components. A series of sectoral operations such as Northeast land titling, education, health,
and irrigation resulted in the next few years.
1.13        With respect to integrated rural development, this was still considered to be a
viable and necessary approach but, again, it was felt that the effort should be expanded statewide
in order to have a broader impact, and that the number of components should be drastically
reduced. As a result, in 1985, the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) was
established to alleviate rural poverty and improve the living standards of small farm families in
the Northeast. Under this program, the Bank approved during 1985-87 individual loans for the
ten states in an amount totalling US$826.7 million. But, through 1993. with the exception of
one component supporting small community projects (known as the APCR), implementation of
the NRDP lagged behind schedule and performance in meeting basic objectives was weak. Some
of the main causes were strikingly similar to the causes of poor performance under the earlier
POLONORDESTE projects: chronic fiscal deficits and other macroeconomic distortions led to
almost constant counterpart funding shortages and widespread deterioration of many of the public
institutions responsible for carrying out the NRDP. The Federal Government devolved some
responsibilities to the states, but, by and large, institutional arrangements were still highly
centralized. Decision-making, administration and financing arrangements were generally non-
participatory, and the sense of project "ownership" at both state and local levels was limited.
1.14        On the other hand, the innovative APCR  community-based components
(para. 1. 13), which relied on local planning and implementation, stressed community
organization and contracted out needed technical expertise, were noticeably more successful.
They acknowledged the expressed needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was
positive, the cost per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded
those of other components.
1.15        Reformulated NRDP.  On the Bank's initiative, in 1993 the NRDP was
reformulated and transformed in its entirety into a community-based development program,
drawing both on the successful experience of the APCR small community projects component
and on lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, particularly the
Mexican Solidaridad program. Performance has since improved markedly. Rural communities
are participating in the identification, financing and implementation of subprojects that meet their
most pressing needs, increase their sense of project ownership, and have a much sharper focus
on poverty alleviation.  The reformulated NRDP is covering all members of poor rural



- 5 -
communities and not only those with productive assets, extending beyond production and
income, and based on a "matching grant" mechanism linked to beneficiary contribution towards
subproject cost. The State Governments are fully responsible for counterpart funding, and the
corresponding sense of ownership of the program has also improved.
1.16        Although only 18 months have passed since the reformulation, based on
implementation so far (as well as the earlier experience of the APCR components), certain facts
are clear. The program has generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and
favorable multiplier effects, and has mobilized additional funds from municipalities and
communities. As much as 95% of disbursements are reaching targeted beneficiaries, and
diversion of funds for non-intended uses has been sharply reduced. The NRDP's participatory
approach has benefitted community organization and empowerment, increased transparency, and
demonstrated that rural communities can influence the allocation and use of resources at the
municipal level to alleviate poverty.  Investments funded by the program  have been of
satisfactory quality and less costly than those executed by public agencies.  While the
reformulated program does not expect to change the basic agricultural patterns in the Northeast,
it has successfully reached a large number of landless families and land reform beneficiaries.
Several field investigations, surveys and studies have assessed the impact of NRDP. The
consensus, from a broad sample of completed and operational subprojects, is that they have had
a positive impact on the quality of life, and in the case of productive subprojects, on employment
and incomes of beneficiaries. They have relieved the effects of a severe drought in 1993.
Implementation of productive subprojects and rural water supply works under the program
enabled those families involved to take fuller advantage of improved climatic conditions in 1994
than was possible for families not participating. A summary evaluation of the reformulated
NRDP is provided in Annex 2.
The State of Sergipe
1.17        With an area of only 22,000 km2, Sergipe is Brazil's smallest state. The level to
gently rolling land is mostly devoted to agricultural production (86% of total area). Three broad
zones define the State:  the coast, which enjoys moderate temperatures and rainfall, and
plentiful, good quality underground water; the inland semi-humid area with variable rainffall; and
the semi-arid area with highly variable rainfall and prolonged dry periods. Sergipe's coastline
has infertile soil, its original forest having been destroyed, and the coastal population therefore
lives from fishing and coconut production, and working as wage laborers on large sugarcane
farms. The semi-humid region farther inland is marked by fruit plantations due to the favorable
climate, relatively fertile soil and increasing use of irrigation. It also has large areas of pasture
for raising cattle. About 47% of the total land area in Sergipe constitutes part of the "drought
polygon" and in this semi-arid region, farthest inland, subsistence farming predominates. The
semi-arid region has lately been encroaching upon the semi-humid region, making irrigation an
increasingly critical investment.
1.18        Sergipe's industrial sector, concentrated in mineral extraction and processing,
accounts for nearly half of the State's GDP, but agriculture (10% of GDP) is still vital to the
489,000 rural dwellers among Sergipe's 1.5 million inhabitants. Rural poverty in Sergipe, as



- 6 -
elsewhere in the Northeast, is closely linked to agro-climatic conditions, the poor natural
resource base and skewed farm size distribution: 84% of farms are under 30 ha but occupy only
25% of the available land.4 Small farmers, lacking adequate technology, grow mainly low
productivity crops which generate minimal working capital.
1.19        Income patterns reflect these precarious conditions: 68% of rural agricultural
workers in Sergipe earn one minimum wage (about US$80) or less per month, compared to 30%
in industry and 45% in the services sector (1990). During periodic droughts, the rural poor not
only suffer serious crop losses but also often lose their employment on the larger farms as well,
provoking intermittent migration to urban areas. Social conditions are also more difficult. Rural
illiteracy is 60 %, compared to 25 % for urban areas. Nearly two-thirds of rural households lack
access to proper sanitation facilities, compared with 27% in the State as a whole. Finally, 62 %
of all hospital beds are located in the metropolitan area of Aracaju.
1.20        State Government Strategy to Alleviate Poverty.  The State Government of
Sergipe is very concerned with the growing disparity between its urban and rural areas. The
strategy of the current administration to combat rural poverty is to improve infrastructure and
basic services (e.g. health and education) and to create sustainable, employment and income-
generating alternatives in rural areas, in order to improve the standard of living of rural dwellers
and reduce their periodic migration to urban centers in the interior and the metropolitan area of
Aracaju. The Government intends to implement a comprehensive program of community
projects in rural areas which respond to the identified priorities of the communities themselves,
thereby generating a greater poverty alleviation impact with State Government resources. In
partnership with the World Bank, the proposed project would serve as the vehicle to implement
this demand-driven program of community investments, and would emphasize productive
subprojects as the basis for increasing employment and income-generating activities in rural
areas.
1.21        Previous  Experience  with  Rural Development Projects.    Under the
POLONORDESTE program, Sergipe implemented three area development programs of which
one, Tabuleiro Sul, was financed by the World Bank from 1977 to 1984 (Loan 1714-BR).
Despite implementation problems common to all states under POLONORDESTE (paras. 1.10-
1.11), the Tabuleiro Sul project met with relative success, making notably important progress
in the provision of rural infrastructure.  The follow-up program under the NRDP was a
statewide rural development project (Loan 2523-BR) which, from 1985 until its refonnulation
in 1993, was less successful under Brazil's generalized macroeconomic crisis and other
implementation problems noted for the NRDP program in general (paras. 1.13-1.14).
1.22        Nonetheless, Sergipe's overall disbursement performance in both the original and
reformulated NRDP has been among the best of the Northeast states. Of the original loan
amount of US$61.3 million, nearly US$40 million had been disbursed by the time of
reformulation in 1993. Since then, and as of February 1995, an additional US$7.4 million have
been disbursed, and US$6.7 million fully committed, leaving a balance of only about US$6.3
4.    Source: SEPLAN, based on INCRA data (1985).



- 7 -
million for disbursement before the scheduled loan closing on December 31, 1995. Both
subproject approval and completion rates have been high: of 430 subproject proposals received,
some 330 have been approved, of which almost half (156) have been completed (see Annex 2).
This positive perfonnance is attributed in large part to the commitment of the Government to
NRDP and the longstanding experience of the State Project Coordinating Unit with rural
development.
Main Lessons Learned from the Northeast Rural Development Program
1.23        The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil starting with the POLONORDESTE Program (1975-84),
a variety of sectoral projects and more recently with the NRDP (1985 to the present). The
NRDP, following its reformulation in 1993, has focused entirely on client-driven subproject
investments implemented by the communities themselves, with decentralized project management
at the state and municipal levels and more transparent decision-making and accountability for
project performance. Implementation has provided important lessons for the proposed project
(see Annex 2 for further details):
(a)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from Federal to state
and local government ensures more efficient project administration.
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to rural
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a clearly-defined and
well-disseminated system of incentives and penalties to discourage the misuse of
funds;
(b)   Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of ownership and
a willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and maintenance of
project investments.  Beneficiary participation in the selection, execution,
supervision and financing of project investments ensures that investments respond
to true perceived needs, generates cost savings and increases accountability at the
local level;
(c)   Sustainability of project investments has greater potential when the municipalities
and communities contribute to subproject financing in a cost-sharing arrangement
and when there is increased beneficiary participation.  For example, the
participatory process introduced in the pilot Municipal Council component
(FUMAC) of the reformulated NRDP ensured better selection and prioritization
of subprojects by beneficiaries;
(d)   Povertv targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and monitorable; be
based on objective criteria; foster transparency and minimize political interference
in project resource allocation; and ensure that project resources do reach the
poorest communities;



- 8 -
(e)   Technical assistance should be accessible to rural communities to enable them to
identify, prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their
capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical assistance should also be
targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management and
financial capacity;
(f)   Standardization of subproject documents. technical designs and unit costs
simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation process, facilitates the
procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves the quality
of subprojects, thereby encouraging greater participation by poorer communities
and reducing bottlenecks in the subproject cycle; and
(g)   A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system  facilitates the subproject
evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve
targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool.
1.24        The design of the proposed Sergipe Rural Poverty Alleviation Project has taken
into account these lessons, which are consistent in many respects with lessons learned elsewhere
in Latin America and other regions with similar community-based development programs. The
project will expand the FUMAC approach and initiate a pilot municipal funds program (para.
2.7), to promote decentralization of decision-making to municipal and community levels, to
relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the minutiae of subprojects,
and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of subprojects. The project will employ a
poverty targeting methodology based on a series of poverty-related criteria at the municipal,
community and beneficiary levels, and backed by a strong system of operational checks and
balances to thwart mistargeting and misappropriation of resources. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, an improved monitoring and evaluation system will be adopted to reinforce the
targeting mechanism and to strengthen the management of the subproject cycle. In addition, for
simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation, evaluation and supervision, the Project
Operational Manual will establish standard subproject designs, technical and financial
parameters, and cost indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects. Finally, funds for
technical assistance to rural communities and municipalities will be facilitated to enable
participation of the poorest areas, foster community capacity and empowerment, and encourage
the active participation of NGOs and local grassroots organizations.



-9-
II. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1         The proposed project is based on the positive results of the reformulated NRDP.
Joint evaluation by the Brazilian Government and the World Bank has confirmed that the
reformulated NRDP, itself the culmination of two decades of experience, has succeeded in
introducing an effective model for rural poverty alleviation in the Northeast. This model has
now been field tested for about one and a half years, and the Northeast State Governments are
developing projects which would expand its coverage. The proposed project would be one of
the first follow-on operations.  As the principal donor engaged in a sustained, long-term
partnership with the Brazilian Government to address rural poverty issues in the Northeast, the
Bank is particularly well placed to support this next phase of development initiatives for the
Region.
2.2         The new Brazilian administration that came to office in January 1995 is extremely
concerned with the level of poverty in the country, and has declared the Northeast Region a
priority area for public development programs.  The proposed project, based on a more
participatory and cost-effective approach than previous programs, would fit well within the
Federal Government's Comunidade Solid4ria strategy for poverty alleviation (see also para. 1.6).
2.3          The project is also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 29, 1993. A central theme of the CAS is to reduce
poverty and inequity both through resumption of broad-based economic growth based on
structural reforms and appropriate sector-specific policies and through proper targeting and
delivery of services to the poor. The project would contribute to economic growth through
income- and employment-generating investments in rural areas of Sergipe. It would also support
decentralization of decision-making and expenditure responsibility from the Federal to
subnational government level, in this case, to the the State Government of Sergipe and its rural
municipalities. The project would expand social expenditures directed to the poorer segments
of the rural population based on community mobilization efforts and active local beneficiary
participation.
Project Objectives
2.4         The project would assist the State Government of Sergipe to alleviate rural poverty
and its consequences by:  (a) providing basic social and economic infrastructure and
employment- and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor; (b) supporting rural
community groups in planning and implementing their own subprojects; (c) providing a safety
net for the rural poor during a period of strong fiscal adjustment when the Goverment's ability
to finance essential investments and services is constrained; and (d) leveraging revenue



- 10 -
mobilization at the community and municipal levels. The project would ensure that funds are
targeted and reliably transferred to the poorest communities, and would promote further
decentralization of decision-making to State, municipal and local levels.
Project Components
2.5         The proposed project would include three main components, as follows:
(a) Community Subprojects (US$55. 1 million or 93 % of total base cost), which would support
small-scale investments selected and subsequently operated and maintained by the beneficiaries
themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$2.4 million or 4% of total base cost!, which
would provide all implementing entities and communities with technical assistance and training
to increase their capacity and improve implementation of the project; and (c) Project
Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.8 million or 3% of total base cost), which
would finance project coordination and activities to provide feedback on project performance and
impact.
A. Community Subprojects
2.6         The project would provide matching grants to rural community associations to
finance small-scale subprojects (up to US$50,000) identified by these groups as priority
investments that would improve community well-being. Subprojects would be of many types,
broadly classified as infrastructure (such as rural water supply, electrification, local road
improvements, and small bridges), social (e.g., day care centers for the young and elderly,
school or health post rehabilitation) and productive (such as small-scale processing and minor
irrigation schemes). There would also be a negative list of subprojects types which would not
be eligible for financing. Although demand-driven, the project would set indicative targets for
the main categories of investments (e.g. social, productive and infrastructure) and would track
them targets via the project's monitoring system (Annex 7). Subproject proposals would observe
standard documentation and technical, economic, environmental and sustainability criteria
established in a Project Operational Manual, which sets forth procedures and guidelines for
implementation. The Operational Manual will build on the manual already in use during the past
year and a half for the reformulated NRDP project, with some fine-tuning and additions to
reflect the lessons learned during the past two years implementation. Agreements have been
reached on the needed improvements to the NRDP Operational Manual. During negotiations
the Bank reviewed a complete revised draft of the Operational Manual, and assurances were
provided by the Borrower that all project components and subprojects would be executed in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual (para. 3.1(a)). Adoption of the Operational
Manual would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(a)).
2.7         Three different delivery mechanisms would be used to screen, approve, and
implement community subprojects, as reflected in the three subcomponents described below:



- 11 -
(a)   Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC).  These subprojects would be
identified and prepared by rural communities and presented to project Municipal
Councils for approval. The Municipal Councils, composed of community
members and representatives of local organizations, would promote local
consensus-building on priority needs, screen and approve subprojects for
financing by the State Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). It is expected that at
least some US$35.6 million equivalent or 60% of total base cost would be
invested under this subcomponent.
(b)   Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). This subcomponent would be
a pilot variant of FUMAC, in which select Municipal Councils would prioritize
and approve subprojects submitted by rural communities and then would finance
them within the context of an annual budget, which the State PCU would delegate
to the Municipal Councils to manage themselves. This annual budget envelope
would be allocated to the Municipal Councils according to a distribution formula,
based on clear and measurable criteria, for implementation of an Annual
Operating Plan (POA) prepared by each Municipal Council and approved by the
PCU (Annex 5). The Municipal Council would transfer funds to beneficiary
associations to finance approved community subprojects. It is expected that at
least US$5.9 million equivalent or 10% of total base cost would be invested under
this subcomponent.
(c)   State Community Schemes (PAC).  This subcomponent would provide the
opportunity for rural communities to submit their subproject investment proposals
directly to the State PCU. This would avoid placing at a disadvantage those
communities within municipalities which lack either the capacity or the political
will to adopt the FUMAC or FUMAC-P approach. The continued existence of
the PAC would also serve as an incentive to encourage local mayors to join
FUMAC knowing that otherwise their communities could access project funds
directly at State level. The PCU would screen, approve and release funds for
subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiary communities. It is expected
that up to some US$13.6 million equivalent or 23% of total base cost would be
invested under this subcomponent.
2.8         Given the overwhelmingly positive response to FUMAC under the reformulated
NRDP, it is expected that the need for the PAC subcomponent would diminish over the course
of project implementation, with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P subcomponents gradually
expanding. Flexibility would be built into the project to reallocate funds among subcomponents
to accommodate this expansion.
2.9         In order to receive financing under the project, beneficiaries would form legally-
registered associations, in compliance with Brazilian law, and would enter into agreements
(conv&ios) with the PCU and/or project Municipal Councils. Understandings have been reached
on draft model agreements between the PCU, Municipal Councils and community associations
for the implementation of community subprojects under the FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC
subcomponents. The final model agreements would form part of the Project Opreational



- 12 -
Manual. Beneficiary associations would contribute to subproject costs, either in cash, kind or
labor, and would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the investments. The level
of contributions of the beneficiaries, municipalities and the State Government for the different
types of subprojects would be specified in the Project Operational Manual.
B. Institutional Development
2.10        Given the decentralized implementation framework of the project, capacity
building through technical assistance and training of the various participating entities--beneficiary
associations, Municipal Councils, and PCU--will be central to its success. The Institutional
Development component (US$2.4 million or 4% of total base cost) will finance appropriate
techncial assistance and training in order that each group acquire the capabilities needed to
effectively carry out project implementation. For example, the beneficiary associations will need
accessible support for community organization and subproject preparation and execution, as well
as training in operation and maintenance techniques, to derive optimal benefit from subproject
investments. The project Municipal Councils will require assistance to orient their decision-
making on resource allocation among community investments and, in the FUMAC-P pilot
program, to create capacity for investment planning and financial administration. In addition
to providing or making available from other sources a wide range of technical and managerial
advice to the project Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, the PCU will need training
to enhance its own project coordination and supervision skills. To this effect, this component
would finance consultant services, training materials and courses, seminars, workshops, and
related operational costs.
2.11        The technical assistance and training would be packaged into four categories:
(a) a basic introductory capacity-building program for Municipal Councils. Organized by the
PCU, this program would include intensive training on the project purpose, subproject cycle,
role of the Municipal Councils, guidelines of the Operational Manual, and related topics, for
each Municipal Council under the project; (b) specialized skills training for the PCU and
Municipal Councils. Based on needs, each group would contract "on-the-job training" from
local experts in areas such as environmental assessment, monitoring techniques, and financial
administration; (c) technical assistance and training for participating communities, organized and
contracted by the PCU and the Municipal Councils, on such topics as community mobilization
and organization, subproject preparation, operation and maintenance of investments, and expert
advice (e.g. for water use); and (d) workshops and seminars for the Municipal Councils and
beneficiary associations, to exchange experiences under the project.
2.12        Potential service providers include local consultants, public  institutions,
universities, NGOs and international organizations. The Municipal Councils, provided with
model Terms of Reference prepared by the PCU, would contract technical assistance based on
programs agreed with the PCU, which would then release funds for that purpose.



- 13 -
C. Project Administration. Monitoring and Evaluation
2.13        This component (US$1.8 million or 3% of total base cost) would support overall
project coordination and supervision and would help to strengthen the effectiveness and quality
of project operations. It would finance the incremental operating costs of the PCU, mainly for
supervision of subprojects, and a statewide information campaign to disseminate information
about the project and its guidelines to increase awareness, transparency and participation. For
this campaign, the project would finance: (a) local technical assistance in the design and
development of the campaign; and (b) the implementation costs, including posters, leaflets, radio
spots, and videos.
2.14        This component would also finance the establishment of a monitoring system,
including the maintenance and use of a management information system (MIS). To function as
an efficient management tool, the project MIS (see Annex 7), originally designed under the
NRDP, would be improved and made more user-friendly. It would contain key technical,
financial and socio-economic information on subprojects, as well as cost and other physical
indicators. MIS-generated project reports, including monthly disbursement reports and semi-
annual progress reports, would facilitate subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback
on project performance. In addition to financing operating costs for monitoring activities, the
project would finance experts in information technology and project management: (i) to improve
the MIS; and (ii) to collect and analyze cost indicators and physical parameters from the most
frequently approved subprojects, so as to calculate a range of values for these indicators and to
adjust subproject eligibility criteria accordingly. These adjustments would then form part of the
Project Operational Manaual.
2.15         Finally, the project would finance consultant services to develop and implement
studies to evaluate the impact of the subprojects and provide feedback to improve project
operations: (a) annual physical performance reviews, to assess the quality and sustainability of
common types of subprojects financed by the project, including reviews of community-based
procurement; (b) a Mid-Term evaluation of project performance, carried out in the third year
of implementation; and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation, which would include a baseline
evaluation to establish indicators of socio-economic impact, a mid-term and a final evaluation
of the project using these indicators. Annex 7 contains a detailed description of the studies to
be financed under the project.
2.16        During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that: a project
information and monitoring system, with reports and format agreed with the Bank, would be
maintained throughout the project period. The Bank would receive monthly information on
disbursements of project funds and semi-annual reports on subproject activities and performance
of project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year (para. 3.1(c)); a baseline
evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan effectiveness, and a Mid-Term
Review of the project would be carried out during the third year of the project (para. 3. 1(d)).
The establishment, by the State, of effective project monitoring and evaluation arrangements
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(c)).



- 14 -
Decentralization and Targeting
2.17        Decentralization. Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project
implementation responsibilities from the Federal Government to the State and from the State to
the local (municipal and community) levels, started under the reformulated NRDP with the
introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC programs and will be further advanced
in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will expand significantly. Second, the pilot
FUMAC-P program will promote a transfer of financial management responsibilities to select
Municipal Councils.
2.18        Project Targeting.   Beneficiary  targeting  would  occur at four levels:
(a) geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the municipality;
(b) geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and communities;
(c) community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups by the
project Municipal Councils; and (d) project-based selection through the incentive structure and
cost-sharing matrix established for major types of subprojects. Targeting at the first and second
levels defines the project area. Project municipalities are selected based on poverty-related
criteria such as rate of indigence, availability of municipal resources and other socio-economic
indicators (Annex 1), which are linked with the poor natural resource base, harsh agro-climatic
conditions, and concentration of small-farm families. Within municipalities, the second level
of targeting reduces the potential beneficiary population to only those communities located in
settlements with population under 7,500 people, resulting in a target population of 660,800.5
The third and principal targeting level is community-based. The project assumes that local
representatives can best judge which community groups are poorest and what investment
priorities are in each area. The fact that 80% of the members of the Municipal Councils would
be representatives from rural communities and the local civil society, as well as the clear and
transparent rules and procedures for the Councils' functioning, are also important for targeting
poor beneficiaries at the lowest level. Finally, the cost-sharing matrix favors subprojects with
greater poverty alleviation potential and discourages those thought to have somewhat lesser
development impact. The effectiveness of the targeting methodology in directing project benefits
to the poor would be assessed through the project monitoring system and through annual
performance reviews and the Mid-Term Review (Annex 7). Details on targeting mechanisms
are included in Annex 3. Agreements have been reached with the State of Sergipe on these
targeting mechanisms and on the municipalities to be included under the project; these
understandings would be reflected in the final Project Operational Manual.
Project Coordination Arrangements
2.19        Project Coordinating Unit. The Unidade de AdministraCao do Projeto Nordeste
de Sergipe (PRONESE), an autonomous entity under the State Secretariat of Planning, Science
and Technology (SEPLAN), would act as the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and have overall
responsibility for project coordination and administration. PRONESE was established in 1984
5.    Including inhabitants of small urban centers.



- 15 -
to oversee the implementation of the NRDP in Sergipe; most of its staff had also had previous
experience with the Bank-financed POLONORDESTE program. Under the direction of a
General Coordinator, assisted by a Technical Coordinator, PRONESE's structure is being
reorganized to accommodate the needs of the new, community-based strategy of the reformulated
NRDP and the proposed project. Its three divisions, each headed by a Manager, have a
professional staff totalling 47. The Community Projects Management Division (formerly the
Supervision and Monitoring Division) will be responsible for analyzing community demand,
appraising and supervising subprojects, and assisting (both on technical and legal matters) and
training communities and project Municipal Councils. The Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Division will also work with community subprojects, but will focus on planning, and monitoring
and evaluation activities, in particular the preparation of POAs and the maintenance of the
project's MIS. The third unit is the General Administration Division. While PRONESE has
no field offices, the state's small size--most rural communities are only 50-100 km away from
the state capital--readily permits field evaluation and supervision from headquarters in Aracaju.
Although PRONESE's monitoring and supervision functions would be increased under the
proposed project, its executive role would be reduced given the expansion of the FUMAC
component of the reformulated NRDP and the delegation of many decision-making and
implementation responsibilities transferred to project Municipal Councils, particularly that of
evaluation, approval and supervision of subprojects under FUMAC and FUMAC-P.
2.20        Specific project functions of PRONESE as PCU would be to: (a) prepare project
POAs; (b) work closely with the State Secretariats of Planning and Finance to ensure timely and
adequate availability of loan and state counterpart funds for the project; (c) promote the project
and encourage participation of potential beneficiary communities, NGOs and private sector
entities; (d) review and appraise subproject proposals submitted by PAC communities; (e) review
POAs submitted by FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and allocate the corresponding approved
budgets; (f) release funds to the community associations whose proposals have been approved,
and to the participating FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (g) supervise the implementation of
approved subprojects and monitor compliance with project guidelines; (h) provide technical
assistance to the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (i) prepare statements of
expenditure (SOEs) and applications for reimbursement; and (j) ensure that procurement,
disbursement and auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are followed. A condition of
loan effectiveness would be the signing of a satisfactory agreement between the State of Sergipe
and PRONESE for implementation of the project (para. 3.2(b)).
2.21        Assurances were provided by the Borrower at negotiations that the POAs and the
corresponding budgets for each project year would be made available to the Bank for review and
comments by October 31 of each year; that the Bank would receive a copy of the final plan and
budget as soon as they are approved; and that adequate counterpart funding would be made
available for the project in a timely manner by the State (para. 3. 1 (b)). Approval of targets for
any given year will be contingent upon performance in the previous year, including a thorough
analysis of the actual demand from communities, of subproject costs actually observed, and of
the number of uncompleted subprojects. The use of standardized technical designs and cost
indicators would substantially facilitate the evaluation process by the PCU.



- 16 -
2.22        Project Municipal Councils. The FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
would have expanded responsibilities in decision-making and project implementation, compared
with current practice under the NRDP. The Councils would comprise representatives from:
(a) rural communities, civil groups and organizations such as NGOs, religious organizations and
rural labor unions; and (b) publicly-elected representatives and municipal government officials.
The Mayor (prefeito) would chair the Municipal Council. While the composition of these
Councils may vary from one municipality to another, representatives from rural communities
and the civil society would make up at least 80% of the Councils' membership. PRONESE
would participate in the Councils in an advisory capacity. Decisions would be made at open
public meetings, previously announced, and would be taken by majority of votes. Detailed
criteria, rules and procedures for the Municipal Councils structure and operations are included
in the Project Operational Manual.
2.23        The  Municipal  Councils  would  be  entrusted  with  the  following
tasks/responsibilities: (a) publicizing and promoting the project in their areas; (b) providing
technical assistance to the communities for subproject preparation and execution; (c) prioritizing,
through local consensus-building, community subproject proposals and reviewing them for
approval or rejection; and (d) monitoring and supervising the implementation of approved
subprojects. Under FUMAC, the Municipal Councils will present subprojects which they have
approved to the PCU for financing; under FUMAC-P, they will themselves be responsible for
managing the funds allocated to them for their community subprojects (Annex 5).
Project Implementation Arrangements
2.24        Community Subproject Cycle.  Beneficiaries submit proposals for subproject
investments based on priority needs of their communities. These proposals are discussed and
screened within the Municipal Council under both FUMAC and FUMAC-P, and by the Project
Coordinating Unit under PAC. Beneficiary associations would participate in the financing of
subprojects according to cost-sharing arrangements defined for the different types of investments
in the Project Operational Manual.  They also take on the responsibility for subproject
preparation, implementation, operation and maintenance. Standard documentation for subproject
proposals, developed by the PCU, would be distributed to the beneficiary associations to
facilitate the subproject preparation and screening process.  To ensure the quality of the
investments financed and to provide guidance to the beneficiaries when preparing subprojects,
the Project Operational Manual would contain standardized technical designs, including
environmental assessments and cost paramters (e.g., cost per physical unit or per beneficiary)
for the most frequent types of investments.  Beneficiary associations may solicit technical
assistance for more sophisticated or less common subproject types.
2.25        Various standard designs already exist, and others would be developed under the
project. In some cases, specialists would be contracted to prepare the designs, based on terms
of reference agreed with the Bank. In others, the PCU would gather and adapt existing designs
(e.g., for pipes or box culverts, retaining walls, fords, and decks of bridges) and make them
available to the Municipal Councils and associations.  Standard designs will include the
following considerations, where appropriate: (a) engineering aspects; (b) technical, financial and



- 17 -
economic feasibility; (c) operation and maintenance; (d) recommendations on environmental
impact; and (e) social demand. This process will be facilitated by the fact that other Northeast
States will be developing similar projects and, hence, there will be considerable scope for
dissemination and exchange of designs among the professionals of PRONESE and the other State
PCUs.
2.26        The appraisal of community subprojects would be carried out by the Municipal
Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) or the PCU (under PAC). The appraisal procedures
would take into account: (a) compliance with the project's guidelines and eligibility criteria,
including those related to the technical, environmental and cost specifications contained in the
Operational Manual; (b) the beneficiary association's commitment to provide the required
contribution and to take full responsibility for the execution, operation and maintenance of the
investments to be funded; and (c) in the case of an association which has already benefited from
other subprojects, assessment of past performance.  Using standardized cost indicators,
reasonable costing for subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from standard
designs would have to be fully justified, as would proposed investment costs which fall outside
the range of standardized costs.
2.27        In order to disburse funds for subproject implementation, agreements (convenios)
would be signed: (a) under FUMAC, between the PCU, the Municipal Council and the
beneficiary association for subproject funding and implementation; (b) under FUMAC-P,
between the Municipal Council and the association, for subproject funding and implementation,
and between the PCU and the Municipal Council for release of project funds; and (c) under
PAC, between the PCU and the beneficiary association for subproject funding and
implementation. Such agreements would spell out the terms and conditions for the funding,
execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the approved subprojects. Model convenios
would form part of the Project Operational Manual.
2.28        To supervise subproject implementation at the community level, a special
committee, composed of at least three members of the beneficiary association not belonging to
its administration and freely elected by all members, would be responsible for overseeing the
execution of the subproject, including contracting. The PCU and the Municipal Councils would
visit the subproject sites regularly during subproject execution to monitor physical and financial
progress. The PCU would have overall responsibility for subproject supervision through the
project MIS, which would track subproject progress from initial submission to completion
(Annex 7), and through accounting and auditing arrangements. A Project Implementation Plan
was developed and agreed at appraisal (Annex 7, para. 12 and Table 7.1). It includes project
performance indicators, responsible institutions and annual targets, by component. The key
elements of this Plan are included in the Loan Agreement. The Bank's Recife Office would
supervise subproject progress on a sample basis in the field and through review of monthly
disbursement summaries (see Annex 10 for Bank project Supervision Plan).
2.29        Project Operational Manual. The NRDP Operational Manual would be improved
and expanded to reflect the need for fine-tuning and additions based on experience to date.
Agreements were reached with the State during appraisal on the following points to update
and/or include in the Operational Manual: (a) indicative quantitative and qualitative targets to



- 18 -
be tracked with the Project MIS; (b) the project area and the criteria used to select the
municipalities included in the project area; (c) the initial distribution of municipalities among the
three components (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC) and the criteria for future redistribution;
(d) guidelines for the pilot component (FUMAC-P);  (e) arrangements for institutional
strengthening and project administration, monitoring and evaluation; (f) FUMAC and FUMAC-P
Municipal Council composition, responsibilities and modus operand>, notably in relation to
FUMAC-P; (g) clear identification and description of responsibilities of beneficiaries and
municipalities in the implementation of the subprojects; (h) model agreements to be signed
between the PCU, the Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations; (i) new standard
agreements between the PCU and the FLUMAC-P Municipal Councils and between the
FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and the beneficiary associations; (j) standard forms for proposals
to be submitted by potential beneficiaries; (k) the cost-sharing matrix for the various types of
subprojects; (1) the fund release mechanism to beneficiaries for FUMAC-P; (m) a scheme of
incentives and penalties; (n) monitoring arrangements, including a new classification of the
various categories of subprojects; (o) standard subproject designs and their role in the appraisal
of proposals submitted by beneficiaries; and (p) a revised standard form of acceptance of works
completed (ata de recebimento).
2.30        Operation and Maintenance (O&MV   Community associations would bear the
responsibility for O&M for all investments, as specified in the convenio for release of project
funds. These associations may request technical assistance to develop O&M programs and
techniques. Operation and Maintenance arrangements for community subprojects are described
in Annex 6. Experience to date under the NRDP has been very positive with respect to O&M
of investments when local communities have a strong sense of ownership.
2.31        Operational Checks and Balances. A system of operational checks and balances,
included in the Project Operational Manual, would promote transparency and accountability in
the use of project funds.  Increased decentralization of resources and decision-making to
beneficiary associations and Municipal Councils, with only ex-post control by the State through
audit of accounts and supervision and monitoring by the PCU, is central to the project strategy.
However, this advancement requires disincentives against departures from project guidelines,
based mainly on education/joint problem solving and, as a last resort, penalties for
misappropriation, mistargeting, lack of participation or improper O&M.
2.32        Monitoring. Analysis of implementation will depend on a database of subproject
information from the project Management Information System (MIS). Input to the database
would be made from a standard data sheet at key stages of the subproject cycle (e.g.
identification, appraisal, procurement and disbursement.  See also Annex 7).  Periodic
processing of the database information will permit the monitoring of the characteristics and
evolution of project implementation. Project performance indicators to be monitored over the
course of project implementation are included in Annex 7.  Monitoring and reporting
arrangements are discussed in paras. 2.14-2.16 above.



- 19 -
Project Costs
2.33        The total project cost, calculated in April 1995 prices and including contingencies,
is estimated at US$60.0 million. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be US$15.4 million,
equivalent to about 26% of total project cost. The baseline cost is estimated at US$59.3 million,
and contingencies for the period between loan negotiations and project completion are estimated
at US$0.7 million. Contingencies are low because they apply only to the two components of
institutional development and project administration, monitoring and evaluation. For these
activities, physical contingencies of 10% and 5% have been included, as well as annual price
increases for local and foreign costs (both expressed in US dollars). No contingency provisions
have been applied to subprojects component. Since the number of community investments is not
defined ex ante, it was considered preferable that any change in physical or price attributes of
subproject investment would be accommodated by a change in the number of subprojects
approved and implemented.
2.34        Investments in subprojects represent some 93 % of total base cost (60%  for
FUMAC, 10% for FUMAC-P and 23% for PAC). The distribution among different categories
of subprojects, as well as the phasing of expenditures over the five-year implementation period,
are indicative only, and there would be flexibility to reallocate funds from the PAC to FUMAC
or FUMAC-P subcomponents as Municipal Councils gain experience.
Financing Plan
2.35        The Borrower would be the State Government of Sergipe, with the guarantee of
the Federative Republic of Brazil. The Bank loan will be repayable over 15 years, including
a five-year grace period, and will bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan
of US$36 million equivalent would finance 60% of the total project cost, and would disburse
against 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training and evaluation studies, 59% of
expenditures for community subprojects and 20% of incremental project administrative costs
(except salaries) and monitoring. The State Government would be responsible for the remaining
40% of total project cost, with beneficiaries contributing to these counterpart funds. The State
Government of Sergipe is expected to meet its counterpart funding obligations without difficulty.
The State has consistently met all of its counterpart funding obligations under the reformulated
NRDP. The level of annual funding required under the new project would be similar, and
would be equivalent to only about 1 percent of the total State budget. Beneficiaries would
provide a minimum of 10% of the total costs of community-managed investments, in cash, labor
or kind, amounting to US$5.5 million (paras. 2.36 and 2.43). Detailed project costs and the
financial plan are presented in the table below:



- 20 -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Local  Foreifn   Total           % of Total    % Foreijn
Baseline Costs
-------- (US$ Million) ---------
Estimated Costs
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                 27.1       8.5       35.6             60.0         24.0
2. FUMAC-P                4.5       1.4         5.9             10.0        24.0
3. PAC                   10.3       3.3        13.6             23.0        24.0
Subtotal                 41.9      13.2        55.100           93.0        72.0
B. Institutional Development  1.0      1.4        2.4              4.0         58.0
C. Project Administration,   1.3      0.5          1.8             3.0         28.0
Monitoring and
Evaluation
Total Baseline Costs        44.2      15.1       59.3             100.0       100.0
- Physicai contingencies    0.2       0.1         0.3
- Price contingencies       0.2       0.2         0.4
Total Project Costs        44.6       15.4       60.0
Financins Plan
State Government of Sergipe    18.5   --         18.5a'
Beneficiaries               5.5       --          5.5
IBRD                       20.6       15.4       36.0
Total                      44.6       15.4       60.0
a/ Including US$2.4 million in local taxes.
2.36          Cost Sharing and Sustainability.   The cost estimates and average size of
community-managed subproject investments have been determined from the experience gained
under the reformulated NRDP and the operation of its PAC and FUMAC components. On this
basis, the project is expected to finance some 2,100 community-managed subprojects over 5
years. Since the NRDP is still on-going, no retroactive financing is being considered. The
amount of the beneficiary communities' contribution to subproject costs would depend on the
type of subproject and the financial resources available to the community, the final determination
being made by the PCU. It is expected to be a minimum of 10%  for social investments, 15%
for infrastructure investments and 20% for productive investments. As in the existing NRDP,
ownership of project facilities by the beneficiaries should enhance the sustainability of
community investments. A key element would be the establishment of sound arrangements



- 21 -
under the project for the provision of operating, maintenance and capital replacement
expenditures, the requirements for which would vary significantly between types of subprojects
and the availability of which would vary by municipality and community association. The
Project Operational Manual and the convenios would contain specific guidelines concerning the
funding of these costs.
Procurement
2.37        Procurement for community subprojects costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less and procured by local communities, would be carried out mainly through direct contracting.
This procurement procedure is appropriate because most subprojects: (a) would be small and/or
implemented in scattered or remote areas and therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive
proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural communities which will contribute to the work
through the donation of unskilled labor and local materials; (c) will be selected on the basis of
willingness of the beneficiary communities to contribute to and physically supervise their
execution; and (d) would provide a vehicle for communities to play an active role in the local
development process. There may be cases when the community lacks the capacity to make the
necessary purchases of materials. For such subprojects, the municipalities or the PCU would
make purchases on behalf of the communities, packaging the procurement for several subprojects
whenever possible. Procurement by the municipalities or the PCU would follow: (i) National
Shopping procedures for goods, and procedures acceptable to the Bank for procurement of small
works under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations (under
US$100,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$2.8 million for goods and US$1.0 million
for small works); or (ii) National Competitive Bidding -- NCB (over US$100,000). For NCB
the standard bidding documents agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil
will be used. ICB is not anticipated for any goods or works under the project. Although the
costs of individual subprojects may not exceed US$50,000, the average size of the subprojects
is expected to be less than US$25,000. Approximately 400 subprojects would be implemented
yearly using these procurement methods.
2.38        Prior review of procurement documentation by the Bank would be made for all
NCB contracts. Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be low, it would
be compensated in several ways. First, a study of procurement by community contracting would
be carried out during the first year of the project, under terms of reference agreed during
negotiations. Second, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would be conducted using the
project information and monitoring system (para. 2.14) in order to detect possible procurement
problems.  Third, the project physical performance evaluation (Annex 7) would analyze
procurement issues; and finally, during Bank supervision, random reviews would be conducted
of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject documentation.
2.39        Consultant services to provide technical assistance and training to the beneficiary
communities, the Municipal Councils and the PCU would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants.  Contracts, short lists, and selection procedures for
technical assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank when the value of the
contract is US$100,000 or more for consulting firms or US$50,000 or more for individual



- 22 -
consultants. All consultant terns of reference would be subject to Bank prior review. During
negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Sergipe that: (a) the above procurement
arrangements would be followed (para. 3.1(g)); and (b) the study of procurement by community
contracting referred to in para. 2.38 would be carried out during the first year of the project and
any agreed recommendations adopted expeditiously (para. 2.1 (h)). Procurement arrangements
are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Category                                           Total
NCB          Other         Cost
Community Subprojects
* Minor Works                       --           24.8"'       24.8
(under US$50,000)                              (14.7)      (14.7)
* Goods and Materials               --           24.81'       24.8
(under US$50,000)                              (14.7)      (14.7)
* Minor Works                        1.8          --           1.8
(over US$50,000)                  (1.1)         --          (1.1)
* Minor Works                       --             1.o2'       1.0
(over US$100,000)                               (0.6)       (0.6)
* Goods and Materials                             2.82'        2.8
(over US$50,000)                                (1.7)       (1.7)
Consulting Services                   --             2.9         2.9
(2.9)       (2.8)
Project Administration                 --            1.9         1.9
(0.3)       (0.4)
TOTAL                                  1.8         58.2         60.0
(1.1)       (34.9)       (36.0)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be financed by the Bank.
1) Direct contracting.
2) Shopping.
Disbursements and Special Account
2.40         The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of 5 years, and the
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000, and the project's Closing Date is



- 23 -
December 31, 2000. The disbursement period shown in the projected Disbursement Schedule
(Annex 8, Table 8.4) is shorter than the Bank's standard disbursement profile for rural
development projects in Brazil, but is in line with the recent experience under the reformulated
NRDP in Brazil and with other Bank-financed social fund projects in Latin America. The
allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in Annex 8, Table 8.3.
2.41        During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Sergipe that it
would open and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank for Bank
disbursements (para. 3.1(e)). The authorized allocation would be US$3.0 million, adequate to
cover the expected average four-month flow of disbursements under the project. Disbursements
for all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for
goods and works exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; contracts with consulting firms above
US$100,000 equivalent; and with individuals above US$50,000 equivalent.
2.42        The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by
the Project Coordinating Unit in the MIS data base. All SOEs would be transmitted by the PCU
to the Bank in Washington. Simultaneously, the PCU would send to the Bank's Recife Office
a copy of SOEs and reimbursement applications submitted to the Bank in Washington, as well
as updated information on the status of all subprojects, enabling a rapid review of subproject
eligibility. This procedure would allow the Bank and PCU management to maintain a
cumulative account of the progress of project implementation.
2.43        The communities' contribution to subproject investments would be defined in the
agreement (convenio) between the PCU and the community association (PAC), between the
PCU, the Municipal Council and the association (FUMAC) or between the Municipal Council
and the community association (FUMAC-P). It would be computed as part of counterpart
finance of the project. Simple, standard records, whose format would be included in the
Operational Manual, would be completed by a designated community representative. They
would be used to record cash contributions, materials and labor inputs, and would be subject to
project audit procedures. Disbursements to the beneficiary associations for subproject execution
would be contingent on physical evidence of work progress (i.e., the flow of funds to the
community would be result-driven; records of counterpart contributions would be maintained as
back-up information).
Accounts and Audits
2.44        The PCU would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts of the
Municipal Councils (for the FUMAC-P subcomponent) and of the community associations would
also be subject to review by the independent auditors on a sample basis. Finally, independent
auditors would also audit the Special Account (para. 2.41). Copies of the audit reports would
be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit reports
would convey the auditor's opinion and comment as necessary on the methodology employed
in the compilation of the statements of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting
documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agreements and standards of



- 24 -
record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. The State of Sergipe provided
assurances during negotiations that: (a) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) with respect to withdrawals on the basis of
SOEs, that such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with
the procedures involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals; and (c) certified
copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of each project fiscal year (para. 3.1 (f)).
Environmental Aspects
2.45        The proposed project has been assigned a "B" classification. Because of their
relatively small size, most PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P subprojects would not have a
significant effect on the environment. The project would, however, ensure proper environmental
screening of subprojects and enforcement measures, to prevent certain types of productive or
infrastructure subprojects from producing negative effects on the environment. The Operational
Manual would specify key environmental criteria and screening and enforcement procedures to
be followed.
2.46        Based on specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject proposal
presented by the community associations would include a simple environmental assessment in
the form  of a "checklist", following a standard format.  For standard subproject types,
environmental screening at the subproject approval stage would be the responsibility of the PCU
and Municipal Councils. For exceptional subproject types, for which technical standards have
not been developed, the PCU would screen the subproject proposals in detail for environmental
impact, contracting technical assistance when necessary, and this assessment and any subsequent
recommendations would be incorporated into the subproject proposal. For the FUMAC-P
subprojects, the Municipal Councils would conduct the environmental screening together with
either the PCU or with contracted technical assistance. Enforcement of environmental criteria
would be ensured via subproject supervision by the PCU and Municipal Councils (paras. 2.20
and 2.23).
Poverty Category
2.47        The proposed project is part of the Bank's Program of Thrgeted Interventions.
The project centers its investment on the rural poor of Sergipe, a state of the Northeast Region
which, in turn, has the greatest incidence of poverty in Brazil. The project also employs a
targeting methodology at the beneficiary, community and municipal levels, which takes into
account poverty-related criteria and other key parameters (Annex 3) to ensure that project
resources reach those communities which contain a higher concentration of rural poor than in
the rest of the state.



- 25 -
Women's Participation
2.48         The full participation of women is critical to the poverty objectives of the project.
Bank-supported operations and studies in the Northeast of Brazil show the strong correlation
between the problems and needs of rural women and those of producers and family units in
general. Interestingly enough, they also show that community leaders in the Northeast favor
women's participation due to their willingness to provide assistance and services, receptiveness
to change, and greater likelihood of repaying debt.6 Responding to lessons concerning women's
participation, this project will seek to ensure that women's activities (both traditional and
innovative) are included; to support subprojects which foster maternal/child health and day care
facilities (the latter have proven invaluable under the ongoing PAC/FUMAC operations in
freeing rural women for income generating activities); to target groups and activities in which
female participation has proven constructive; to provide technical assistance for women's
subproject proposals and implementation; and to monitor women's participation in the project
and its benefits.
Project Benefits
2.49         The proposed project would result in an improved quality of life for some 330,000
people (about 50% of the target population), by providing better access to water supply and
other basic social and economic infrastructure and services, and by contributing to an increase
in their production, incomes and employment. Project-financed rural water supply and minor
irrigation works will be particularly important in reducing vulnerability to drought. Productive
subprojects will provide a vehicle for financing improvements in input use, technology and
value-adding activities, thus raising productivity and incomes. Female community members will
benefit especially from subprojects such as water supply and some productive activities and
social investments (e.g., day care centers) which enable rural women to seek paying jobs and
contribute to increased family cash incomes. Annex 2 provides an assessment of the kind of
benefits which have been achieved to date for the most common types of subprojects under the
reformulated NRDP. These are illustrative of the kinds of benefits to the target population
which are expected, albeit on a larger scale, from the proposed project.
2.50         Another important project benefit will be the strengthening of the capacity of poor
municipalities and their communities to define and address priority needs, and to plan and
execute their own development projects. It is also expected that the new project will have a
similar impact in the mobilization of additional community and municipal resources, as has the
reformulated NRDP thus far (close to 10% of resources invested by the program), and this will
improve the longer-term sustainability of investments. Finally, the proposed project will provide
a safety net for some of the poorest segments of Sergipe's rural population who will likely be
affected by decreased public investments and services during a period of strong fiscal
adjustment.
6.    A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP-PAPP),
Conrad Kottak, February 7, 1994.



- 26 -
Project Risks
2.51        Bank experience in Latin America and elsewhere suggests that the main sources
of risk for this type of program arise from: (a) irregular funding, which can erode community
interest and participation; (b) technical weaknesses and inadequate supervision of large numbers
of widely dispersed subprojects; (c) mistargeting of program resources; and (d) over-
centralization of decision-making, which often has the corollary effect of depressing local
initiative and community involvement. The funding risk will be mitigated by the fact that the
Bank loan will be taken directly by the State, thereby eliminating those disbursement delays
previously encountered at the Federal level. Secondly, counterpart funding responsibilities
would be shared to a larger extent by the communities, decreasing the relative proportion of the
State's own participation. Third, and perhaps most important, the strong sense of ownership by
the State, municipalities and communities should help to protect project counterpart funding
needs during the process of allocating scarce budget resources. The risks of overdesign and
weak supervision at the subproject level should be substantially reduced with the establishment
of technical standards and cost criteria for the most common types of subprojects, and a
reinforced institutional strengthening component.  Problems of mistargeting and lack of
community participation have been reduced under the reformulated NRDP. However, to further
minimize such problems, the project design has introduced a system of strong operational checks
and balances against such behavior. For instance, a community or municipality would receive
fewer funds the following year, or be cut off entirely from the program, in cases of
misappropriation, mistargeting or insufficient participation.



- 27 -
mI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1         During Negotiations, the Bank reviewed the complete revised draft of the Project
Operational Manual (para. 2.6). The State of Sergipe provided assurances that:
(a)   all project components and subprojects would be executed in accordance with the
Project Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   Annual Operating Plans (POAs) and budgets for each project year would be made
available to the Bank for review and comments by October 31 of each year, and
that the Bank will receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they are
approved, and that adequate counterpart funding would be made available for the
project in a timely manner by the State (para. 2.21);
(c)   a project information and monitoring system, with reports and formats agreed
with the Bank, would be maintained throughout the project. The Bank would be
presented monthly information on disbursements of project funds and semi-annual
reports (on July 31 and January 31 of each year) on subproject activities and
performance of project investments (para. 2.16);
(d)   a baseline evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan
effectiveness, and a Mid-Term Review of the project would be carried out during
the third year of project implementation (para. 2.16);
(e)   a Special Account would be opened and maintained in US Dollars in a
commercial bank for Bank disbursements (para. 2.41);
(f)   (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be maintained and audited
annually according to standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms
of reference for the auditors would include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the
examination and verification of the statements of expenditure for the project
accounts; and (iii) copies of the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each project fiscal year (para. 2.44);
(g)   procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 2.37 - 2.39; and
(h)   a study on procurement by community contracting would be carried out during
the first year of the project and any agreed recommendations adopted
expeditiously (para. 2.39).



- 28 -
3.2         Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would include:
(a)   adoption of the Project Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   signing of a satisfactory agreement between the State of Sergipe and PRONESE
for implementation of the project (para. 2.20); and
(c)   establishment, by the State, of effective project monitoring and evaluation
arrangements (para. 2.16).
3.3          Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$36.0 million equivalent at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of grace.
June 6, 1995



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Socio-Economic Indicators
BRAZIL                                 NORTHEAST!'                                  SERGIPE
Total             Rural                   Total             Rural                   Total             Rural
Pbpulation (mn)          146.8              35.8                    42.5               16.7                    1.5               0.5
Illiteracy2'               20%                41%                    38%                57%                     36%               60%
Heads of                   33%                60%                    56%                 --                     50%               68%
household earning
I minimum wage
or less
Heads of                   24%                49%                    46%                 --                     43%               71%
household with less
than I year of
schooling
% of households            74%               33%                     46%                 --                     60%               13%
with running water
% of households            15%               47%                     38%                 --                     27%               64%
with access to
proper sanitation
facilities
ca 
I/     Except Minas Gerais.
2/     Population 15 years and over.
Sources: Censo Demoerdfico 1991 - Brasil, IBGE
Censo Denogrdfico 1991 - Serripe, lBGE



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Socio-Economic Indicators
Total                                      Rural Pop.       Rate of         ICS           Federal
Pop.        Rural Pop.        Area           Density       Indigence      Index3'    Dependency Ratio
(N)y           MYXf          (kM2)         N/krn)           Mv!                           %p
State                                    1,491,876            32.8        21,843             22.4           31.4         0.36
Project Area                              961,676             50.2        20,989             23.0           44.1         0.52            64.2
Proiect Area by Rezion:
Agreste de Itabaiana                       120,734            49.4          1,131            52.8           43.3         0.43            71.2
Agreste de Lagarto                        209,732             58.8         3,122             39.5           43.9         0.54            55.1                 ,
Cotinguiba                                 121,623            33.8         2,064             19.9           43.3         0.44            48&9                 
Litoral Sul Sergipano                      110,267            40.8         2,159             20.8           41.1         0.49            54.8
Nossa Senhora das Dores                    138,776            53.0         4,296             17.1           44.8         0.57            77.5
Propria                                    84,455             46.8          1,459            27.1           43.3         0.48            70.4
Sertao do Rio Real                         77,453             51.4         2,071             19.2           46.5         0.59            75.0
Sertao Sergipano do Sao Francisco          98,636             61.3         4,686             12.9           47.7         0.57            79.0
1/      Censo DemoRerfico 1991, IBGE.
2/      0 Maya da Fome, IPEA, 1993.
3/      The ICS (Indice de Condi,cao de Sobrevivencia) is a composite index calculated, for all municipalities, by UNICEF and IBGE to measure the adequacy
of conditions pertinent to the survival of children under 6, based on characteristics of their families--household heads having incomes below the minimum
wage, heads of household having less than one year of schooling or households without running water. These conditions are precarious for an ICS of
0.50 to 1.00, intermediate for an ICS of 0.30 to 0.49 and good for an ICS of 0 to 0.29. State and Project Area figures calculated as weighted averages.
Source: Municdios Brasileiros - Criancas e suas Condico5es de Sobrevivencia, UNICEF/IBGE, 1994.
4/      Federal Dependency Ratio (1993): Total transfers from the Federal Fundo de Parficipacao as percent of municipal budget. Source: Tribunal de Contas
do Esiudo do Sergipe, Coordinadoria de Contas Municipais (CCM), Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda.



- 31 -                         Annex 2
Page I of 13
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation
A. Introduction
1.        The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
financing programs to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast.  The Federal Government
established the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) in 1985 to reduce rural poverty
and improve the living standards of small farm families in the Northeast. Through 1993, with
the exception of one component supporting small community projects, implementation of the
NRDP lagged behind schedule, and performance in meeting basic project objectives was weak.
The innovative community-based components (Apoio tis Pequenas Comunidades Rurais, APCR),
which relied on community planning and implementation, stressed community organization and
contracted out needed technical expertise, were more successful.  They acknowledged the
expressed needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost per
family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of other
components. The NRDP was reformulated and transformed in its entirety into a community-
based development program--effective September 28, 1993--drawing both on the successful
experience of the small community projects components and on lessons learned with similar
schemes elsewhere in Latin America.
2.        Under the reformulated NRDP, the project provides matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by these groups as priority
investments to improve community well-being.  Choosing among eligible subprojects, the
beneficiaries solicit investments which respond to their most critical needs. There are two
different delivery mechanisms for screening, approving and implementing community
subprojects:
(a)  State Community Schemes (PAC) in which rural communities submit their
subproject investment proposals directly to the State. The State screens, approves
and releases funds for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and
(b)  Pilot Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and
prepared by rural communities are presented to project Municipal Councils for
approval. The Councils, composed of community members and representatives of
the civil society, promote local-level consensus-building on priority needs, and
screen and submit subprojects for subsequent financing by the State.



- 32 -                             Annex 2
Page 2 of 13
3.          This Annex presents the results of a performance and impact analysis of the
reformulated NRDP, as described above. The analysis is based on information and findings of
several studies and is presented as follows: (i) the information base and methodology on which
the analysis and conclusions are based; (ii) an analysis of the performance to date; (iii) project
evaluation, particularly an impact analysis; (iv) a summary of the major findings and results of
other studies; (v) lessons for follow-up project design and implementation; and (vi) conclusions.
4.          Lessons learned since reformulation show that after several years of experience with
rural development efforts in the Northeast, a large measure of success has finally been achieved
in effectively reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions. While the analyses have shown
certain aspects that need improvement in a minority of subprojects, these can be easily adjusted
by modifications to the project design. The design of the proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation
Project has explicitly taken into account these lessons, which are consistent in many respects
with lessons learned elsewhere in Latin America and other regions with similar community-based
development programs.
B. Information Base
5.          The analysis presented in this Annex draws upon the following sources:
(a)   Data supplied by the Northeast States to the Simplified Project Monitoring System
(SSMP) of the Bank's Recife Office. The SSMP is the major data base for the
reformulated NRDP, from which the performance of the project is monitored. The
SSMP stores key information on each subproject and is updated on a monthly basis;
(b) Sample surveys by the Unidades Tecnicas (UTs)' of participating states. These
surveys, the major source of information on the NRDP's impact since
reformulation, evaluate the impact of a group of 52 PAC/FUMAC projects (8
different types), obtained by using the random sampling methodology proposed by
the Bank.2 The eight major types of projects analyzed are: water supply; rural
electrification; manioc flour mills (casas de farinha); tractors; house improvement
I.    The Project Coordinating Units (PCUs) under the proposed project.
2.    This methodology builds on statistical random sampling procedures from a universe of all subprojects
under implementation and/or completed, as obtained from the SSMP Due to the wide variation in
project characteristics, the maximum acceptable difference between sample estimated value and the true
population value was set at 20% -- the total number subprojects selected for data collection following this
procedure was 177. The Bank's Recife Office identified specific subprojects randomly by employing a
random number generator. The distribution of the sample for a given type of subproject among the states
was based on the distribution frequency of such projects. A questionnaire was designed for each type of
project, focussing on: (a) subproject identification; (b) nature of the subproject (investments funded); (c)
results/impact of the subproject; and (d) special infbrmation. (For additional and detailed information on
the procedure, see "A Methodological Note on the NRDP Survey on Impact," Recife Office, World
Bank).



- 33 -                         Annex 2
Page 3 of 13
for community health purposes; rice mills; clothes-making; and child day care
centers.  These eight project types account for more than 50% of all projects
completed or under implementation in the ten States.
(c)  A desk review of the following studies: (i) special evaluation studies of FUMAC,
also conducted by UTs for each of the ten States, based on their implementation
experience and specific case studies; (ii) the University of Michigan's "Baseline and
Popular Participation Study", initiated in 1993 by Kottak and Costa, and followed
by field surveys in July-October 1994, covering 38 communities in 23 municipalities
of 9 states (Minas Gerais was not included); (iii) a series of studies under the
"ARIDAS Project on Regional/Municipal Development in Semi-arid Areas of the
Northeast"; (iv) an evaluation of NRDP, commissioned in 1994 by the Federal
Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN); and (v) reports from several World
Bank and FAO missions reviewing the experience of the reformulated NRDP.
C. Performance to Date
6.         Statistical information from the SSMP on the performance of all 10 participating
states in the reformulated NRDP is presented in Thbles 2.1 to 2.6. Depending on the state, the
reformulated NRDP became operational between October 1993 and January 1994. The general
performance of the program as of February 1995 is reviewed below.
Disbursements
7.        Thble 2.1 presents disbursement progress (including funds already committed) since
reformulation for each participating state, as of February 15, 1995. In just over a year, a total
of US$108.5 million has been disbursed or committed under the program, consisting of US$71.6
million actually disbursed and another US$36.9 million already committed by the States. The
program's current disbursement rate, overall, is significantly higher than its historical equivalent
before reformulation. During the eight years of implementation of the original NRDP (1985-
1993), US$342 million, or less than US$43 million per year, was disbursed.
8.        Individual disbursement profiles have also been analyzed. In the second half of 1994,
disbursements increased markedly for six of the states (Bahia, Minas Gerais, Sergipe, Maranhao,
Piauf and Paraiba), but remained lower for the others (Pernambuco, Alagoas, Ceari and Rio
Grande do Norte). Bottlenecks in the flow of loan funds from the Federal Treasury to the states
were responsible for most of the lower disbursement rates.
Subprojects and Beneficiaries
9.         As of February 25, 1995, more than 21,000 PAC and FUMAC subproject proposals
have been submitted by communities in the ten participating states. Of the total, more than



- 34 -                        Annex 2
Page 4 of 13
15,000 subprojects have already been approved, of which 5,931 are completed and/or under
implementation, and another 379 awaiting the final transfer of funds to the beneficiary
associations. Negotiations with beneficiary associations on the terms of agreement and other
issues were in process on the other 8,925 approved subprojects (Thble 2.2).
10.       Some 120 different types of subprojects have been implemented and/or completed.
Of these, 55% are infrastructure subprojects,  42% productive subprojects and 3% social
subprojects.  Subprojects related to water supply constitute the largest single category of
submissions (19.3%), followed by rural electrification (17.6%), tractors (9.7%), manioc flour
mills (8.0%) and a variety of others (Table 2.3).
11.       Of the approved subprojects under implementation and/or completed, some 13 % are
under FU1MAC. Although the costs of PAC and FUMAC subprojects are similar (ITble 2.4),
FUMAC subprojects involve, on average, 40% more beneficiaries, resulting in a significantly
lower implementation cost per beneficiary.
12,       The average cost per subproject (around US$21,000) varies greatly among project
types, ranging from US$10,000 for tubewells to US$36,500 for tractors, but never exceeding
US$40,000 (TIble 2.5).  Costs for the same type of subprojects often differ substantially
between states.
13.       Subprojects were being implemented (or completed) in 898 municipalities (Table
2.6), or 71 % of the total eligible municipalities (1,258). About 11% of these are FUMAC
municipalities. On average, 5.9 subprojects have been approved for different communities
within each municipality under FUMAC, compared with 4.7 under PAC.
D. Evaluation
Socio-economic Impact Evaluation
14.       A full impact evaluation of community investments financed under the reformulated
NRDP is difficult, as the program has been operational for a little more than one year and
definitive conclusions can be drawn only from those subprojects which have been completed and
are fully operational (Table 2.2). However, by taking a sample and using data obtained from
field surveys of the subprojects and their beneficiaries by the different UTs, a socio-economic
impact evaluation was conducted in November-December 1994 for eight main project types,
which account for more than half of all subprojects under implementation and/or completed and
of total subproject costs (para. 5(b) contains a description of the procedure followed). The
analysis of sample cases surveyed by the UTs indicates that PAC and FUMAC have generally
made a positive impact on the quality of life and, in the case of productive subprojects, on
employment and incomes of beneficiary communities or associations. In addition, the analysis
shows that the social internal rates of return for productive subprojects are extremely high
(>50%), with the cost-effectiveness results also impressive--in terms of both employment



-35 -                            Annex 2
Page 5 of 13
creation and social benefit/cost ratio.  The prospects for financial sustainability of these
subprojects are also more than satisfactory.
15.        Data were obtained for 52 sample subprojects in the various states, of which 30
were under PAC and 22 under FUMAC.  First, quantitative benefits per project type were
assessed based on weighted averages obtained from the subprojects surveyed in that category,
and results (appropriate to each subproject type) derived per beneficiary. Second, these results
were extrapolated to all the subprojects under implementation or completed in each subproject
category, with analysis of sustainability of the communal investments, in terms of operation and
maintenance as well as capital replacements, for some of the productive subproject types. The
analysis, made in financial terms, covered the ten states as a whole. Given the sampling nature
of the exercise and the variations that exist between individual states in terms of subproject costs
and performance, results which have been quantified in the overall evaluation (Tables 2.7 and
2.8) should be taken as illustrative only:
(a)   Rural water supply (19%  of subprojects submitted). Since drought is a frequent
occurrence and one of the major threats to life in the Northeast, communities
express great demand for this type of subproject. Due to variation in physical
conditions among the different areas, works implemented differ according to the
source of water (surface or groundwater) and the type of infrastructure required
(new or rehabilitated well, reservoir, fountain, etc.). The average cost is about
US$16,000 per subproject' in the sample or US$142 per beneficiary. Rural water
supply projects provide a precious resource which previously was obtainable only
through long hours of walk or had to be supplied by the municipality (by carro pipa
or water bowser), usually at great cost. The subproject results are savings in time,
effort and cost, as well as improved health through better sanitation. However,
these gains are difficult to quantify. It is estimated that approximately 140,000
families will benefit from the 976 subprojects under implementation and/or
completed in this category.
(b)  Rural electrification (18% of subprojects submitted). This project type on average
costs US$20,000 or about US$7,800 per km of network, and on average benefits
48 families. Providing electricity to roads, households, shops and small-scale
processing units, the subproject contributes not only to the obvious improvement in
quality of life of the local inhabitants (including access to radio, television and the
use of domestic appliances), but also generates additional employment and incomes
from the increased operation of local businesses and industries. In total, it is
estimated that more than 36,000 families will benefit from the 758 rural
electrification subprojects under implementation and/or completed, with more than
24,000 houses connected to electricity.
3.   The variation between average costs per project type given in this section and those of Table 2.5 is
explained by the smaller number and characteristics of the sample subprojects when compared with the
total under the program.



- 36 -                          Annex 2
Page 6 of 13
(c)  Manioc mills (8%  of subprojects submitted).  Casas de faninha are a familiar
structure in rural areas in the Northeast. They are popular with a population for
whom manioc continues to be a major food crop, particularly in the form of flour.
These subprojects cost around US$20,000 and, on average, involve 108 producers
of whom 68 are members of the association which owns the mill and the rest are
farmers who come to the mill for processing. The principal benefit from this type
of project is a reduction in processing costs (plus, in some cases, savings in
transport to other mills located outside the project area), leading to increased
production (both of manioc flour and subproducts) either for sale or family
consumption, and therefore higher incomes (in some cases, the quality of the
product is also improved through particular care of the association members).
Because faster processing allows the producers more time for planting and
harvesting, the installation of manioc mills is associated with an increase in the crop
areas, at least where access to land is not a problem. At the same time, the
subprojects generate additional jobs for both men and women working in the mills,
whose mechanization generally results in better working conditions. It is estimated
that the 380 subprojects which were under implementation and/or completed will
benefit around 30,000 families, produce annual incremental income of about
US$377 per family, and generate more than 11,000 jobs (including additional farm
employment). The comparison between receipts and operating and maintenance
costs associated with manioc mills indicates that this type of investment is
financially sustainable, leaving the association with enough funds to amortize the
mill and its equipment in 5 years as compared to its average useful economic life
of 12 years.
(d)  Tractors for communal use (10% of subprojects submitted). This subproject type,
which costs roughly US$33,300 or US$440 per beneficiary, benefits on average
some 76 farmers. Not surprisingly, tractor use has facilitated increases in the area
under cultivation for a number of crops (manioc, maize, beans, cashew, horticulture
crops and, to a lesser extent, sugarcane and dry season rice) and in their yields and
productivity, resulting in a significant gain in the incomes of the corresponding
association members. Also, as elsewhere in the world, tractors are labor-using
when used primarily in pre-harvest production activities. In total, the 198 tractor
subprojects under implementation and/or completed will benefit 15,000 producers
and create 9,900 jobs (including the equivalent of additional person-days from crop
cultivation). The net income of the association owning the tractor, after deduction
of all operation and maintenance expenditures, is sufficient to cover the initial
investment after a period of 5 years, which is much less than its average useful
economic life of 10 years.
(e)  Rice mills (less than 2 % of subprojects submitted). The benefits from rice mills are
similar to those of manioc mills, i.e., reduced processing costs, savings in time and
effort, increased areas, production (including for subproducts for animal feed),
incomes and employment. In addition, rice mills allow association members to
produce and sell milled rice rather than unhusked rice at a much lower cost than



-37 -                          Annex 2
Page 7 of 13
prior to the project. At an average cost of US$11,000 or US$234 per beneficiary
(on average 47 association members, plus an additional 7 producers who process
their rice at the project mill), this type of subproject brings an annual incremental
income of US$330 per beneficiary, resulting from savings in processing costs and
increased production of rice and its subproducts.  The 62 subprojects under
implementation and/or completed in this category will benefit more than 2,900
producers and create some 400 jobs.  Milling revenues net of operation and
maintenance costs allow the rice mill association to fully amortize its plant after 5
years, compared to an average useful economic life of 12 years normally assumed
for this type of investment.
(f) Clothes making (2 % of subprojects submitted). The most popular type of non-
agricultural productive projects, clothes-making subprojects cost US$9,100 or
US$109 per beneficiary, with each association comprising an average of 84
members. The clothes produced are sold on the local market (substituting for
imports, which in some cases were the only kind found before installation of the
subproject) or at weekly fairs in the area. They generate an additional annual
income of about US$190 per beneficiary.  The 88 such subprojects under
implementation and/or completed will benefit a total of 7,400 people, create some
1,600 jobs, mostly for women, and generate a gross value of production of about
US$5 million per annum.
(g)  House improvement (less than 4% of subprojects submitted). The dwellings of
many rural families in the Northeast are in poor condition and often associated with
lack of hygiene which can lead to very serious health problems (e.g., the often fatal
disease, chagas, which is spread by an insect favoring materials like the thatched
roofs of traditional rural houses in the interior). The average cost of making the
necessary reforms is about US$33,000 per project--US$460 per beneficiary family
(71 per subproject) and US$90/m2, which is low. In specific areas, when the
subproject involves strictly rehabilitation and employs local materials and
beneficiaries' own labor, the cost can even be as low as US$33/m2. It is estimated
that the 116 house improvement subprojects under implementation and/or completed
will benefit some 8,200 families in total, and indications are that consequent
improvements in the living conditions of these families have an important positive
impact on their health.
(h)  Day care centers (less than 1 % of subprojects submitted). Another social subproject
in relatively high demand is the establishment of nurseries or kindergartens. The
29 subprojects already under construction and/or completed, at an average cost of
US$26,000 or US$290 per family (91 beneficiary families per subproject), will
benefit some 2,600 families. By freeing the mothers from child care responsibilities
during the day, these subprojects increase the capacity of mothers to work and earn
additional income, estimated at about US$230 per beneficiary per year and totalling
some US$605,000. Other benefits include an increase in their time for leisure,
educational activities and food preparation.



- 38 -                          Annex 2
Page 8 of 13
16.        Cost-effectiveness was determined by estimating, where appropriate, the total
investment cost per additional job created by the subprojects, as well as social benefit-cost ratios.
Benefit-cost ratios are high (>3.0) for all subprojects analyzed, and the initial investment per
additional job created was low for all productive subprojects (more than 10 times lower than in
the industry and service sectors). Social internal rates of return were also estimated for the four
types of productive subprojects--they all exceed 50%. Both analyses were made assuming
constant benefits over an eight-year subproject life cycle (Table 2.7). In addition to these positive
impacts, benefits are largely concentrated in the subprojects' beneficiary communities.
17.        Sustainability. The financial sustainability analysis of productive subprojects shows
that while beneficiary associations receive a one-time investment grant from the program, this
investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average
beneficiary association is adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original
investment long before the end of its useful economic life (Thble 2.8).
Technical Evaluation
18.       In most PAC and FUMAC  subprojects, works are generally of good quality,
particularly when implemented by private contractors (75 % of subprojects). With the remaining
25% of subprojects (20% executed by municipalities, with unskilled labor often provided by
beneficiaries, and 5% implemented by the communities themselves), the quality varies but
remains generally fair to good.  Only for a very small proportion (less than 5 % of all
subprojects) is construction quality rated as poor.
19.       Nevertheless, some shortcomings were detected in a number of subprojects, namely
the overdesign of works due to lack of technical criteria and/or competent technical assistance,
and leading to discrepancies in investment size and costs per beneficiary for the same type of
projects. In addition, technical assistance provided by UTs or other entities to communities in
planning and executing projects, has sometimes been found to be inadequate. Despite the
availability of funds under NRDP to hire professional assistance with planning or
implementation, such assistance is hard to secure in rural areas--in part because under the
reformulated NRDP technical assistance funds were tied to the subproject and could not be
released to remunerate contracted professionals if the association's proposal was rejected.
20.        Because of their relatively small size, PAC/FUMAC subprojects generally do not
produce significant effects on the environment. However, certain types of projects, by their
very nature, produce environmentally undesirable by-products (e.g. from the processing of
manioc) or lead to increased use of products that may have a negative environmental impact
(fertilizers and pesticides associated with the use of tractors, wood for fuel in cassava and rice
mills, etc.). Additional consideration would be given to these aspects under the proposed new
project.



-39 -                          Annex 2
Page 9 of 13
Institutional Assessment
21.       Institutional analysis of the reformulated NRDP and of the role played by the various
actors in the program yields a generally favorable picture:
(a)  Once initiated, community associations generally function well, apart from some
isolated cases of apathy or of takeover by individuals trying to monopolize benefits.
Appointment of office-holders, payment of dues or user fees and accounting all
seem to be taken seriously by the members.  However, associations do have
difficulty with paperwork and the cost of legal registration. They also find it hard
to comply with the level of detail required to submit proposals under PAC or
FUMAC, although the more than 21,000 subprojects submitted would seem to belie
this claim;
(b)  Development and performance of the FUMAC Municipal Councils are affected by
the attitude of the local political power base, especially that of the mayor (prefeito).
However, in most cases mayors are supportive and the disparate interests
represented in the FUMAC councils have found a modus vivendi;
(c)  NGOs have played a mixed role. In many cases, churches, rural labor unions and
some technical NGOs are playing a useful part in subproject implementation in
certain states--stimulating and helping with the initial formation of community
associations or providing assistance with submission or execution of community
proposals. NGOs in these categories see the NRDP as a source of additional funds
to support their work. On the other hand, some of those contacted via initial
publicity campaigns were unsuited or unwilling to become involved in the
reformulated NRDP. Others would only participate if project funds were channelled
through them;
(d)  Many rural municipalities have limited annual budgets and very little revenue of
their own.   Since their funds barely cover operating costs, most project
municipalities view the reformulated NRDP as a welcome source of additional
resources for investment.  For the most part, mayors, municipal legislature
members (vereadores) and municipal administrations have supported and participated
in NRDP, although at times mayors or legislators have attempted to subvert the
program  to their own ends.  Only in a few cases has the weakening of the
traditional clientelismo implied by the FUMAC approach aroused open opposition
or boycott. In such cases, PAC still operated satisfactorily and allowed beneficiary
associations to bypass the municipal authorities and submit proposals directly to the
state UTs; and
(e)  The technical units (UTs) are located within the Planning Secretariat of each state.
Most have established several field offices, each with one or more technicians. In
some cases UTTs also handle other development programs in the state but usually
these are programs of minor importance.  That the UTs have generally been



- 40 -                         Annex 2
Page 10 of 13
successful in promoting NRDP is obvious from the overwhelming community
response. However, despite their size (generally 40-60 technicians), UTs find it
hard to process the large number of subproject proposals and to provide technical
assistance for the preparation and implementation of subprojects4. To provide
sufficient technical support to communities the Ul's have in some cases forged
successful alliances with NGOs (e.g. the Associacdo de Apoio as Comunidades do
Campo (AACC) in Rio Grande do Norte). Support has also been provided by
different state extension services (EMATER), but their response has generally been
poor. In some states, while there is no official alliance between the UT and
EMATER, individual extensionists may still support NRDP ad personam. UTs
themselves receive project technical assistance, mostly contracted from international
agencies, such as the Instituto Interamericano de Coopera9ao para a Agricultura
(IICA) and FAO.
Advantages of FUMAC over PAC
22.       The data on subprojects implemented under the program show that FUMAC has
outperforned PAC in a number of ways. First, although only 12 % of total subproject proposals
submitted by communities are under FUMAC (the pilot nature of this component necessarily
limited its area of intervention), 13% of all subprojects under implementation and/or completed,
and only 4% of those rejected, belong to this component and account for 16% of all
beneficiaries under the program. Second, although the average cost per subproject is similar for
PAC and FUMAC (Table 2.4), the number of beneficiaries per subproject is on average 40%
higher in FUMAC than in PAC, resulting in a cost per beneficiary which is considerably less
for FUMAC subprojects.
23.       Although socio-economic benefits produced by the two components are similar in
many respects, there is enough evidence to assert that greater community participation and
transparency have been achieved through FUMAC and that FUMAC-generated projects, most
likely through better selection and prioritization by the beneficiaries, are able to meet the
program's criteria better than PAC subprojects.  In addition, FUMAC has contributed to
increased community organization and capacity to identify, plan and implement their own
projects.
E. Summary of Results and Findings from Other Studies/Reports
24.       Other studies of the reformulated NRDP provide qualitative analyses which, focusing
on FUMAC, primarily address institutional issues such as decentralization, municipalization,
community organization and participation, transparency in decision-making, and the role of the
4.   Subproject proposal processing has not been a major limiting factor, considering that more than 15,000
subprojects have been approved in little more than a year.



-41 -                          Annex 2
Page 11 of 13
State in the provision of training and technical assistance to municipalities. The following
positive findings are cited in the various studies as the reformulated NRDP's main achievements:
improvement in the living conditions and nutritional situation of the rural poor; positive
multiplier effects of successful subprojects; support to rural communities and associations, and
recognition of their potential; incentives and other positive contributions to community
organization and participation; increases in value added of rural activities, production, incomes,
and employment generation; and containment of rural/urban migration. On the other hand, some
aspects which need improvement are: bureaucratic procedures and excessive documentation
requirements; delays in subproject approval and fund disbursements; lack of technical assistance
on the part of UTs; funding Limitations and subproject cost ceilings; unavailability of local
technical staff to assist communities in preparing and implementing subprojects; lack of
municipal participation and funds to contribute to subproject costs; weak participation of
communities in prioritization of subprojects; and insufficient knowledge of the program by
communities.
25.       Reports of World Bank and FAO missions all stress that the program's overall
impact on the rural poor is generally positive and that available evidence would indicate that
FUMAC subprojects meet the program's stated objectives better than PAC subprojects. While
there is consensus that the reformulated NRDP as a whole and its constituent elements PAC and
FUlMAC are successful, there are also some areas that need improvement, mostly under PAC,
which are similar to those already listed, specifically: the need for improved targeting and
greater transparency; design problems, particularly with regard to insufficient technical criteria,
excessive bureaucracy, and lack of adequate community participation in subproject selection and
execution; unsustainability of project investments and of beneficiary associations; lack of
counterpart funds; and, lack of subproject supervision and follow-up. However, the reports also
concur that these problems have not affected the majority of subprojects and can be corrected
or circumvented with improved design criteria aimed specifically at these issues.
F. Lessons for Project Design and Implementation
26.       The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil, starting with the POLONORDESTE Program (1975-84)
and more recently under the NRDP (Northeast Rural Development Program, 1985-93). The
NRDP, following a reformulation in 1993, focused on small, client-driven subproject
investments implemented by the communities themselves, with decentralized project management
at the state and local levels and more transparent decision-making and accountability for project
performance. Implementation since 1993 has provided important lessons for the proposed
project:
(a)  Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from federal to state and
local governments tends to result in more efficient project administration.
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to rural
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a clearly-defined and
well-disseminated system of checks and balances to discourage the misuse of funds;



-42 -                          Annex 2
Page 12 of 13
(b)  Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of ownership and a
willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and maintenance of
project investments.   Beneficiary participation in the selection, execution,
supervision and financing of project investments ensures that investments respond
to a true need, generate cost savings and increase accountability at the local level;
(c)  Sustainability of project investments has greater potential when the municipalities
and communities contribute to the subproject financing in a cost-sharing
arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation. For example,
the participatory process introduced in the FUMAC component of the reformulated
NRDP ensured better selection and prioritization of subprojects by beneficiaries;
(d) Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and monitorable; be based
on objective criteria; foster greater transparency and minimize political interference
in project resource allocation; and ensure that project resources reach the poorest
communities;
(e)  Tbchnical assistance should be facilitated to rural communities to enable them to
identify, prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their
capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical assistance should also be
targeted to project Municipal Councils to improve their planning, management and
financial capacity;
(f)  Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies
the subproject preparation and evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of
goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves the quality of subprojects,
encouraging greater participation by poorer communities and reducing bottlenecks
in the subproject cycle; and
(g)  A  user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system  facilitates the subproject
evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve
targeting and efficiency, and serves as an effective management and planning tool.
G. Conclusions
27.       The lessons learned from the NRDP, especially since reformulation, show that after
several years of experience with rural development efforts in the Northeast, a large measure of
success has been achieved in effectively reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions.
While the analyses have also shown some deficiencies in a minority of specific subprojects, these
can be easily rectified by modifications to the project design. The design of the proposed Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project has explicitly taken into account all of these lessons, which are
consistent in many respects with lessons learned elsewhere in Latin America and other regions
with similar community-based development programs:



-43-                           Annex 2
Page 13 of 13
(a) The project will expand FUMAC and initiate a pilot municipal funds program, to
promote further decentralization of decision-making to municipal and community
levels, to relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the
minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of
subprojects;
(b) The project will employ a poverty targeting methodology based on a series of
poverty-related criteria at the municipal, community and beneficiary levels, backed
by a strong system of operational checks and balances to thwart mistargeting and
misappropriation of resources;
(c) As a condition of loan effectiveness, the project will enhance its monitoring and
evaluation system to reinforce the targeting mechanism and to facilitate better
control and project management throughout the subproject cycle by the State Project
Coordinating Units;
(d)  For simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation, evaluation and supervision,
as weUl as for minimizing design deficiencies, the Project Operational Manual will
establish standard engineering designs, technical and financial parameters, and cost
indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects.  Also, environmental
assessment criteria will be part of the Operational Manual;
(e) Funds for technical assistance and training will be facilitated to rural communities
and Municipal Councils to enable participation of the poorest areas, foster
community capacity and empowerment, and encourage the active participation of
able and competent NGOs and local development agencies;
(f) In addition to the measures above, participation and transparency will be further
enhanced by setting clear rules for the composition and modus operandi of project
Municipal Councils, with more than 80% of members coming from community
representatives and the local civil society; and
(g)  A  system  of operational checks and balances will be included to promote
transparency.   Disincentives and penalties against departures from  project
guidelines--misappropriation, mistargeting, faulty project design, lack of
participation or lack of proper O&M--will accompany the increased decentralization
of resources and decision-making responsibilities to beneficiaries and project
Municipal Councils, with ex post control by the State through auditing of accounts,
and supervision and monitoring.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIIPE
Disbursement Performance of the NRDP by State, US$ million
(as of February 15, 1995)
State          Original Loan    Disbursement at   Cancellations 2)        Actual            Already          Outstanding
Amount        Reformulation ')                      Disbursement      Committed after       Balance 4)
after        Reformulation 3)
Reformulation
Sergipe                        61.3              39.9                1.0                7.4                6.7                6.3
Rio Grande do Norte            61.4              36.1               10.0                2.7                3.9                8.7
Pernambuco                     92,0              51.8               20.0                4.1                1.6               14.5
Bahia                         171.0              59.4               60.0               28.2                9.5               13.9
Ceara                          78.0              34.0               25.0                7.4                1.9                9.7
Piauf                         122.0              45.1               30.0                5.8                4.3               36.8
Paraiba                        60.0              24.0                0.0                5.1                2.7               28.2
Minas Gerais                   55.0              14.1                0.0                2.4                2.7               35.8
Maranhao                       84.0              25.0                0.0                7.0                2.3               49.7
Alagoas                        42.0              12.6                0.0                1.5                1.3               26.6
Total                         826.7             342.0              146.0               71.6               36.9              230.2       ;
Notes: ') Reformulation became effective on September 28, 1993.
2) Cancellation became effective on December 21, 1994.                                                                             _
3) Figures do not include a large number of community subprojects for which the first installment has been made but which are awaiting transfer of
more loan funds, nor subprojects already approved but which have yet to be implemented.
4) As of February 15, 1995.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
PAC/FUJMAC Subprojects by State, at Various Stages of Processing
(as of February 25, 1995)
State             Number of subprojects                          Subproject distribution according to stage of processing ';
Total      PAC        FUMAC               0           1          2          3           4          5           6
Sergipe                430         370           60                0          9         88           3          1         173        156
Rio Grande do Norte   1,152       1,035         117                0        607           0         62        156        327           0
Pernambuco            1,894       1,682         212            1,094        184         172         12          0        250         182
Bahia                11,575      10,099       1,476                0          0       8,231        237         22       2,259        826
Piaui                 1,385       1,329          56            1,001          0          0           0        140          49        195
Ceara                 1,243       1,106         137              231        144        315          52          0         367        134
Paraiba                721         607          114              477          1           2          0         13         150         78
Minas Gerais           580          442         138              302          0           1          8         46         194         29
Maranhao              1,703       1,497         206              742        302         116         61           1        363        118
Alagoas                403          389          14              295         26           0          1          0          76          5
Total                21,086      18,556       2,530            4,142       1,273      8,925        436        379       4,208      1,723
Note:  I) Processing stages:
0 = proposals received by UT waiting for appraisal
I= proposals being appraised by UT
2   proposals approved, negotiating with beneficiary associations/communities on terms of agreements to be signed                       0
3   rejected proposals
4= proposals approved, agreements prepared, awaiting for loan funds
5   proposals approved, funds released to associations, projects being implemented
6 = completed projects
Total demand = 0+1+2+3+4+5+6



- 46 -                                 Annex 2
Table 2.3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Community Demand -- Distribution of Subprojects Submitted by Type, NRDP
(as of February 25, 1995)
Total NRDP                  NRDP
Type of Project            (All states)               Sergipe
1%)                      (%)
Infrastructure                           55.2                     73.5
Productive                               41.9                     12.5
Social                                    2.9                     14.0
Total                                   100.0                    100.0
Water supply                             19.3                     11.4
Rural electrification                    17.6                     41.6
Farm tractor                              9.7                      2.3
Manioc flour mill                         8.0                      6.5
House improvement                         3.5                      2.1
Irrigation                                2.6                      0.0
Sanitation                                2.3                      1.2
Clothes making                            2.2                      0.0
Bridges                                   2.1                      4.0
Brick making                              2.1                      0.0
Rice processing                           1.5                      0.0
Localized road                            2.7                     11.1
rehabilitation
Maize processing                          1.2                      0.0
Child day care centers                    0.5                      0.7
Cashew processing                         0.5                      0.0
Other                                    24.2                     19.1
Total                                   100.0                    100.0



-47 -                                  Annex 2
Table 2.4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Average Cost of Subprojects under Implementation and/or Completed
(US$)
State                      Number of Subprojects                       Average Cost2'
(Stages 5 & 6)'1                           (US$)
PAC       FIJMAC         Total               PAC         FUMAC
Sergipe                               278           51          329              27,328        24,157
Rio Grande do Norte                   266           28          294              24,706        23,537
ernambuco                              147          21           168             34,517        36,064
Bahia                                1,484          119        1,603             16,103         16,390
Piaui                                 237             7         244              14,647         12,312
Ceara                                 423           78          501              27,465        28,488
Para-ba                               157           71          228              11,711         12,588
Minas Gerais                           175          48          223              30,529        24,729
Maranhio                              386           95          481              19,731        20,487
Alagoas                                49            6           55              21,302        21,717
Total                               3,602          524        4,126              21,714        21,838
Notes:                          D Projects under implementation and/or completed
2) Includes beneficiary contributions



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Average Cost of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects, by Type and by State
Average Cost by Type 1)2)
STATE                                                                   (US$)
Manioc    Farm      Water      Rural      Small    Thbe     Rice       House    Small-scale         Clothes
Type of Project: flour mill  tractor   supply  electrification   dam  well   process.  improvement  irrigation   Bridge   making
Sergipe               11,688    33,038   19,800       25,387      ---       ---      ---      25,542        ---  28,332       ---
Rio Grande do Norte    20,489    35,752   15,991      19,605   25,145       ---      ---         ---   29,371        ---  19,841         0
Pemambuco             26,488    38,939   21,369       32,758   30,595      ---       ---      37,633    35,352       ---      ---
Bahia                 10,705        ---  17,286       22,995   12,012   10,697   12,377       20,509    19,837   18,888   20,537
Piauf                  3,927    27,312   10,317       21,940   16,745    6,782    9,285       22,198    14,168   28,301    4,207
Ceara                 14,796    38,576   20,760       32,412   28,321   12,946   29,043           ---    30,504      ---  28,278
Parai'ba              11,190    39,648   10,307       16,584      ---   2,932    2,147            ---    14,033      ---   7,843
Minas Gerais          29,570    35,862      ---       30,947    7,326    4,619       ---         ---    16,892   37,110       ---
Maranhao              10,277    35,925   17,824       30,145   24,142   21,042   11,004       39,083    22,113   15,265   15,633
Alagoas               16,176    27,751      ---       33,608      ---       ---      ---      16,439        ---      ---      ---
Total                 12,123    36,520   18,274       25,279   13,943   10,049   11,925       30,023    21,963   22,350   19,835
PAC                   11,847    36,340   19,078       25,716   13,927   10,123   11,910       31,994    22,606   22,168   19,855
FUMAC                 14,956    37,194   15,078       22,878   14,208    7,622   11,978       17,488    18,227   23,613   19,671      |
Notes:                  ' Costs include beneficiary contributions
2) Nature and technical specification for the same type of project vary within and among states



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Number of Municipalities Reached by NRDP
(as of February 25, 1995)
Number of Municipalities ')
State                                                                            Implemented/completed projects per
In the State   In the    With implemented/completed projects                   municipality
Project 
Area        Total        PAC       FUMAC               Total        PAC       FUMAC
Sergipe                   75          74           68          61            7                 4.8         4.66         7.3
Rio Grande do Norte      159         158           56          50            6                 5.3         5.3          4.7
Pemambuco                174         167           99          87           12                 4.4         4.2         5.5
Bahia                    415         264          252         234           18                12.2        11.6        21.1
Piauf                    143         124           77          75            2                 3.2         3.2         3.5
Ceara                    178         120          100          89           11                 5.0         4.8         7.1
Paraifba                 171         109           71          61           10                 3.2         2.6         7.1
Minas Gerais              50          50           54          40           14                 4.1         4.4         3.4
Maranhio                 136         135           98          88           10                 4.9         4.4         9.5
Alagoas                   97          57           23          18            5                 3.5         3.9         2.0
Total                  1,598        1,258         898         803           95                 4.8         4.7         5.9
Note:                 ') The sum of the PAC and FUMAC municipalities may exceed the total number of municipalities in the project area
because some original PAC municipalities later became FUMAC



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Socio-economic Benefits of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects by Main Subproject Type
Project Type     Total No. of    Total No. of    Cost per      Total No.      Total Net         Net            Total         Social                  Cost
Subprojects    Beneficiaries    Benefiary     of Jobs      Incranentel    Incremental    Incrental        Internal             Effecti eness
being                         (US$)        Created       Income per    Income per       Crop Area        Rate of
Implemented                                                    Yeaar        Beneficiary       (ha)          Retbrn           Total           so
and/or                                                    (US$ '000)      per Yar                         (%)        Investment per      B_t-
Completed                                                                    (UiSS)                                     Job Created         Cost
(USS)          Ratio ")
Rund water
supply                976        138,592            142                           --             --              -              _                _
Rura
electrification       758         36,331           400            -               ----                                         --                - -
Manioc nmlls          380         39,520            297        11,460          14,890            377           7,900         > 50              1,273           >3.0
Tractors fr
conununal use         198          15,048           438         9,900          11,587            770          36,080         > 50                816           >3.0
Rice mills             62           2,932           234           398            968             330           1,220         > 50              2,895           >3.0
Clothes
nukiug                 88           7,360           109         1,583           1,400            190             -           > 50                925           >3.0
House
inipwvemeat           116           8,236           461           ----           ----            ----            --                               --
Child Care
centers                29          2,639           290            ----           605             229                         > 50                              >3.0
Note:   ')Real discount mte is 10%.



- 51 -                                Annex 2
Table 2.8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Financial Sustainability Analysis of Productive Subprojects
Iten/Project                          Manioc Mill             Rice Mill            Farm Tractor
Number of associations                    380                    62                     198
Average net income per                   3,737                  2,131                  6,631
association (US$)"
Average cost of subproject (US$)         20,000                11,000                 33,300
Averaze nwunber of yars:
Of useful economic life (years)            12                    12                      10
To build replacement fund (years))         5                      5                      5
Notes:  " Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2) Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the original
investment, which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment. The real interest
rate is assumed to be 10%.



- 52 -                           Annex 3
Page I of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Targeting Mechanisms and Project Municipalities
1          Targeting of the rural poor is of critical importance in the project particularly as
justification for the use of grants for subproject financing. Under the project, it is proposed that
targeting occurs at four levels:
(a)   geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the municipalities;
(b)  geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and communities;
(c)   community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups
by the project Municipal Councils; and
(d)   project-based selection through the incentive structure and cost-sharing matrix.
2.         Municipalities. Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area. All
municipalities, with exception of the metropolitan area of Aracaju', are included in the project
area. Thrgeting of the 70 project municipalities takes into consideration the concentration of
income and economic activity in the metropolitan area and the higher incidence of poverty in
the municipalities of the interior, manifested by such indicators as the rate of indigence2,
availability of municipal resources, and other socio-economic indicators (Annex 1). According
to IPEA (1993), 91 % of the project municipalities suffer a rate of indigence greater than 50%.
In addition, since rural poverty in Sergipe is closely correlated with the poor natural resource
base, the harsh agro-climatic conditions and concentration of land ownership, the project area
includes the entire semi-arid (sertao) region of the state and includes the area currently assisted
by the reformulated NRDP, characterized as smaHl farm areas--84.4% of rural fanns in Sergipe
are considered minifindios (under 30 ha) yet occupy only 25.4%  of available land, while the
remaining 15.6%, principally large farms, occupy 76.4% of the total area. A list of the project
municipalities is included in this Annex.
1.         The metropolitan area of Aracaju comprises the municipalities of Barro dos Coqueiros, Nossa
Senhora do Socorro, and Sao Cristovio.
2.         Rate of indigence equals the number of families below the official poverty line established by
IPEA divided by the total number of families in the municipality. See 0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA,
March 1993.



- 53 -                          Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
3.        Within the project municipalities, the selection of PAC and FUMAC municipalities
will be based on criteria such as past performance under the reformulated NRDP, estimation of
the organizational capacity of communities within the municipality, and "progressiveness" of the
mayor and municipal administration, among other criteria.  The criteria for selection of
FUMAC-P municipalities is included in Annex 5.
4.         Rural Settlements and Communities. The second level of targeting, that within
municipalities, focusses on rural settlements and communities. Beneficiary settlements or
communities are limited to those with a population under 7,500 people.
5.         Community-based Selection.   The third and principal level of targeting is
community-based selection. The project assumes that local communities can best judge which
community groups are poor and what investment priorities are in each municipality. The role
of consensus-building at the local level by project Municipal Councils aims to ensure that only
poor communities benefit from the project. During the open meetings to set priorities, criteria
such as the socio-economic situation of the participating communities, including existing
infrastructure and availability of services, would be discussed as part of the ranking of
subprojects within the municipality. The composition of the Municipal Councils, in which 80%
are representatives from rural communities and the local civil society, as well as the clear and
transparent rules and procedures for the Councils' functioning, are important elements which
facilitate targeting poor beneficiaries.  Finally, indicative targets set for social projects and
projects which benefit women in particular, should be considered by the Municipal Councils as
criteria for subproject selection, insofar as the principles of need and perceived benefits guide
ranking decisions.
6.         Project-based Selection. A fourth level of targeting relates to the incentive structure
which favors certain types of projects, and to standard project designs which would permit
Municipal Councils and the PCU (in the case of PAC) to readily appraise and approve
subprojects. A cost-sharing matrix would be employed which would distinguish between four
different types of subprojects:  social, infrastructure, productive and leisure subprojects.
Adjusting the incentive structure to require different amounts from communities will favor some
types of subprojects. The following cost-sharing matrix is proposed:
Project Type      Beneficiaries/    Municipality     State           Bank
Community                      Government
Social infrastructure            > 10%                   > 30%           < 60%
Economic                         > 15%                   > 25%           < 60%
infrastructure
Productive projects      > 20%           > 0%            < 20%           < 60%
Leisure projects,                > 25%                   < 25%           < 50%
e.g., community halls



- 54 -                               Annex 3
Paze 3 of 3
7.           The effectiveness of the targeting methodology would be assessed through the project
monitoring system  and through ex-post evaluation studies.   For example, annual physical
performance reviews (Annex 7) would monitor the targeting of project benefits. Also, the Mid-
Term Review (Annex 7) would measure the ability of the project to target and reach the poor.
Adjustments and fine-tuning of the targeting methodology would be based on these ex-post
reviews, in agreement with the Bank.
List of Municipalities in Project Area
Azreste de Itabaiana               13. Siriri                          3. Canhoba
1. Areia Branca                                                       4. lIha das Flores
2. Campo do Brito                Litoral Sul Sergipano                5. Neopolis
3. Itabaiana                       1. Estancia                        6. Nossa Senhora de Lourdes
4. Macambira                       2. Indiaroba                       7. Pacatuba
5. Malhador                        3. Itaporanga d'Ajuda              8. Propria
6. Moita Bonita                    4. Santa Luzia do Ithany           9. Telha
7. Sao Domingos                    5. Umbauba
Sertao do Rio Real
Aereste de La2arto                 Nossa Senhora das Dores             1. Cristinapolis
1. Araua                           1. Aquidaba                        2. Pogo Verde
2. Boquim                          2. Carira                          3. Tobias Barreto
3. Itabaianinha                    3. Cedro de Sao Joao               4. Tomar do Geru
4. Lagarto                         4. Cumbe
5. Pedrinhas                       5. Feira Nova                    Sertao Seraipano do Sao
6. Riachao do Dantas               6. Frei Paulo                    Francisco
7. Salgado                         7. Gracho Cardoso                  1. Caninde de Sao Francisco
8. Simao Dias                      8. Itabi                           2. Gararu
9. Japoati                         3. Monte Alegre de Sergipe
Cotineuiba                         10. Malhada dos Bois                4. Nossa Senhora da Gloria
1. Capela                         11. Muribeca                       5. Poqo Redondo
2. Carm6polis                     12. Nossa Senhora Aparecida         6. Porto da Folha
3. Divina Pastora                 13. Nossa Senhora das Dores
4. General Maynard                14. Pedra Mole
5. Japaratulba                    15. Pinhio
6. Laranjeiras                    16. Ribeir6polis
7. Maruim                         17. Sio Francisco
8. Pirambu                        18. Sio Miguel do Aleixo
9. Riachuelo
10. Rosario do Catete             Propria
11. Santa Rosa de Lima              1. Amparo de Sao Francisco
12. Santo Amaro das Brotas         2. Brejo Grande



- 55 -                        Annex 4
Page I of 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Institutional Development
Project Coordinating Unit
1.        The Unidade de Administrao do Projeto Nordeste de Sergipe (PRONESE), an
autonomous entity under the State Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology
(SEPLAN), would continue as the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), with overall
responsibility for project coordination and administration. Although the unit itself was
formally established in 1984 to oversee the implementation of the NRDP in Sergipe, most of
its small cadre of professionals have had many years of previous experience with
implementing rural development programs in the state, including the Bank-financed
POLONORDESTE program.
2.        Under the direction of a General Coordinator, assisted by a Technical
Coordinator, PRONESE currently comprises three divisions: General Administration, which
includes Personnel, Finance and Administrative Support units, and is in charge of
administrative and financial, including disbursement, matters; Planning and Evaluation,
responsible for technical coordination and supervision of the PAC and FUMAC programs
under the on-going NRDP; and Supervision and Monitoring, in charge of the old
"Subprojects component"' of the NRDP. The three divisions, each headed by a Manager,
have a professional staff totalling 47, of which 29 are high-level tecnicos and 18 mid-level
tecnicos, plus related administrative and support staff. Upon completion of the NRDP, the
Supervision and Monitoring division is expected to be reorganized into a "Community
Projects Management" division, with responsibility for analyzing community demand,
appraising and supervising subprojects, and assisting (both on technical and legal matters)
and training communities and project Municipal Councils under the proposed project. The
Planning and Evaluation division (which in the future will be called the "Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation" division) will continue to work with community subprojects but
will focus on planning, and monitoring and evaluation activities, in particular the preparation
of project annual operating plans (POAs) and the maintenance of the project management
information system (MIS). PRONESE's organizational structure is presented in Figure 1.
While PRONESE has no field offices (its 4 regional units were closed in 1991), the state's
small size--most rural communities are only 50-100 km from the state capital--readily permits
field evaluation and supervision from headquarters in Aracaju by some 13 mid-level
1.        These were principally medium-scale irrigation projects implemented by State agencies.



- 56-                         Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
professionals (mostly agricultural technicians) supported and supervised by PRONESE's
high-level professionals.
3.        While the monitoring and supervision functions of PRONESE as PCU would be
increased under the proposed project, its executive role would be considerably reduced given
the expansion of the FUMAC subcomponent and the delegation of many decision-making and
project implementation responsibilities to project Municipal Councils, particularly that of
evaluation, approval and supervision of subprojects under FUMAC and FUMAC-P. The
PCU will prepare the project annual operating plans (POAs), having reviewed and
consolidated the POAs submitted by the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, and will ensure
timely and adequate availability of loan and state counterpart funds for project
implementation. It will appraise and approve PAC community subproject proposals,
facilitated by the use of standardized technical designs and cost indicators for subprojects;
administer and release funds for subprojects approved by FUMAC Municipal Councils; and
allocate and release annual budget envelopes to FUMAC-P Municipal Councils. The PCU
will also provide technical advice and training to project Municipal Councils.
Municipal Councils
4.        FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils will carry the primary
responsibility for subproject approval and for technical and organizational assistance to
beneficiary associations in their respective communities. The project Councils comprise
representatives from the rural communities, civil groups and local organizations such as
NGOs, churches, and labor unions, and publicly-elected representatives and municipal
government officials. While their composition may vary from municipality to municipality,
representatives from rural communities and the civil society must make up at least 80% of
the Councils' members. The PCU will be represented in the Municipal Councils but only in
an advisory capacity. The Municipal Councils receive subproject proposals from the
communities and through open public meetings, previously announced, build consensus at the
local level on priority investments to be financed under the project. Council decisions for
the approval of subprojects are subsequently made by majority of votes during the open
meetings. The project Councils then monitor and supervise the implementation of the
approved subprojects. Detailed criteria and guidelines for the structure and operation of the
project Municipal Councils are included in the Project Operational Manual, and assurances
were provided by the State Government at negotiations that these criteria and guidelines
would be fully observed during project implementation.
5.        The composition and the decision-making procedures of the Municipal Councils
are the same both under the FUMAC program and the FUMAC-P pilot program.
Nevertheless, in addition to the regular functions of project Councils, the FUMAC-P
Municipal Councils will also be responsible for administering subproject funds and releasing
them to the beneficiary associations. On the basis of POAs which they prepare for review
and approval by the PCU, the FUMAC-P Councils receive an annual budget envelope from
which to finance subprojects. They therefore must program and monitor the use of the funds



- 57 -                         Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
from this annual budget, and their consensus-building and priority-setting tasks therefore take
on the added dimension of allocation and rationalization of a fixed amount of resources.
Institutional Capacity Building
6.        Within a decentralized framework, the implementation capacity of the various
participating entities--beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils and the PCU--is central to
the success of the project. The Institutional Development component will finance appropriate
technical assistance and training in order that each group acquire the capabilities needed to
effectively perform their functions under the project. For example, beneficiary associations
will need accessible expertise on community organization and subproject preparation and
execution, as well as training in operation and maintenance techniques to derive optimal
benefit from subproject investments. The project Municipal Councils will require assistance
to orient their decision-making on resource allocation among community investments and, in
the FUMAC-P pilot program, to build capacity for investment planning and financial
administration. In addition to providing or making available from other sources a wide range
of skilled technical and managerial advice to the project Municipal Councils and beneficiary
associations, the PCU will need training to enhance its own project management and
supervision skills, as well as specific skills such as environmental assessment.
7.        The instruments for achieving this institutional capacity building would include a
combination of workshops, technical exchanges, on-site training, and more traditional
technical assistance, drawing upon local expertise within the state: private technical and
management specialists, other public entities, universities, NGOs, and international
organizations. As not all entities need the same specific skills, the PCU will develop a
Capacity Building Program in a menu format which lists potential areas of technical skills
and other training and potential service providers for each. The menu would package
technical assistance and training into four categories: (a) a basic introductory capacity-
building program for project Municipal Councils, including intensive training on the project
philosophy, subproject cycle, role of the Municipal Councils, guidelines of the Operational
Manual, among other themes; (b) specialized skills training for the PCU and the project
Councils on a demand basis, including "on-the-job training" in areas such as environmental
assessment, monitoring techniques, financial administration, etc.; (c) assistance to
communities and associations in identification of needs, subproject preparation,
implementation, and operation and maintenance; and (d) workshops and seminars to
exchange experiences and disseminate project results.
8.        From this menu, the PCU would develop and cost an annual technical assistance
and training program for its own staff, for project Municipal Councils and, under PAC, for
beneficiary associations. Also on an annual basis, the project Municipal Councils would plan
specific skills training and beneficiary training, using the menu as a guide but supplementing
it with particular needs when necessary, and submit this plan to the PCU for costing and
approval. For each item in the program, the PCU would aid the Municipal Councils in the
development of appropriate terms of reference and program outline, and in the identification
and contracting of service providers. In those instances where a large number of beneficiary



- 58 -                        Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
associations or Municipal Councils need similar skills--for example, accounting and
budgeting for FUMAC-P Councils, or operation of irrigation subprojects for several
beneficiary associations--the PCU would organize intensive short training workshops at the
state or regional level on that particular subject or hire technical experts on a retainer
contract to assist in a series of training events across the state.
9.        The funds for institutional development will be administered by the PCU. The
PCU will contract all technical assistance and training for the PAC program and in cases of
packaging or upon request by the Municipal Councils within the FLTMAC program.
FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils will contract technical assistance and training
for themselves or beneficiary associations and communities, with the assistance of the PCU
and on the basis of approved terms of reference. The PCU would monitor the use of
institutional development funds by the project Municipal Councils through review of
statements of expenditure (SOEs) and periodic supervision.



- 59 -                           Annex 4
Figure I
Figure 1: Project Organizational Chart
State Governor
Secretary of Planning
(SEPLAN)
PRONESE         3
General Coordinator
Technical Coordinator  3
I
General Administration         Planning, Monitoring and          Community Projects
Division                   Evaluation Division            Management Division
(GERAG)                        (ASPLAN)                        (GEPROC)



- 60 -                        Annex 5
Page I of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
The FUMAC-P Pilot Program
Background
1.        Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project implementation
responsibilities from the State to the local (municipal and community) levels, started under
the reformulated NRDP with the introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC
programs, will be further advanced in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will
expand significantly under the project. Second, a further step towards decentralization will
be reflected in a pilot program, FUMAC-P, which will promote the transfer of financial
management responsibilities to several FUMAC Municipal Councils.
2.        Generally, municipalities which have participated in FUMAC to date tend to be
those in which the environment for participatory decision-making is more favorable, which
distinguishes them from more traditionally-run municipalities with a strong "clientelistic"
approach. This environment has been the result of a conjunction of cultural/political factors
such as the emergence of a movement for the development of civil society (usually induced
by religious organizations, NGOs and more recently by some political parties) and of a new
generation of more open-minded political leaders.
3.        Several important lessons have emerged from the FUMAC experience in the
reformulated NRDP. First, it has proved to be an efficient, transparent approach for
identifying and prioritizing, through local-level consensus building, multiple demands for
investments by needy communities. Second, it has provided the opportunity to experiment
not only with increased transfer of decision-making, including approval of subprojects, from
the State-level Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to Municipal Councils representing
communities, but also with the management of community subproject funds by these very
Councils. This experience is reflected in the proposed project in the design of FUMAC and,
in particular, FUMAC-P where the feasibility of financial management at the grassroots level
will be tested.
FUMAC-P: Main Features
4.        The FUMAC-P pilot program would account for at least US$5.9 million--or 10%
of the total base cost of the project--over the five-year implementation period. If the
approach proves successful with the communities and meets its objectives of local-level



- 61 -                        Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
investment selection, execution and financial management, FUMAC-P would be expanded
during project implementation with funds initially earmarked for the FUMAC and PAC
subcomponents (see para. 10).
5.        Initially, the PCU would select FUMAC-P municipalities/communities from
among the best FUMAC performers under the on-going NRDP, i.e. those with the best
record in administering and executing community subprojects. Additionally, other
municipalities which have a favorable environment for participatory work (extensive
community organization, municipal officials open to participative decision-making, etc.), and
are interested and can commit themselves to following project guidelines, could be included.
There should also be some indication that local capacity exists to manage financial resources,
for instance in communities or existing associations already managing small-scale businesses
(on an individual or group basis) and whose members could potentially form part of
FUMAC-P Municipal Councils. As the proposed project gets underway and the FUMAC-P
approach proves successful, other well-performing FUMAC municipalities could gradually be
upgraded into FUMAC-P municipalities.
6.        Once the municipalities are selected, allocation of funds would be done based on
a number of criteria to which different weights will be assigned:
(a)  size of the municipality, in terms of both population and area;
(b)  ratio of rural to total population;
(c)  rate of indigence;
(d)  number and degree of dispersion of poor rural communities;
(e)  availability of public resources per capita;
(f) number of subprojects approved under the reformulated NRDP (small
discriminatory factor);
(g)  performance in the previous year; and
(h)  willingness of the mayor (prefeito) to participate.
7.        FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would have the same composition and modes of
operation as FUMAC Municipal Councils (Annex 4). They would be responsible for:
(a)  assisting rural communities in identifying priority needs and translating them into
investment proposals;
(b)  screening and reviewing these proposals, and ensuring that they meet eligibility
criteria as contained in the Project Operational Manual;



- 62 -                        Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
(c)  monitoring and supervising, together with the PCU, the implementation of
approved subprojects;
(d)  providing, directly or through contracting, technical assistance and training to
beneficiary associations in the design and operation and maintenance of project-
financed investments;
(e) managing subproject funds and transferring funds to beneficiary associations with
approved subprojects; and
(f)  preparing indicative annual operating plans (POAs) for review and approval by
the PCU. The POA would contain a list of community investment priorities,
indicative targets to be met, a tentative timetable, the indicative budget and the
technical assistance required to implement the proposed program. The PCU
would review and approve the POA at the end of the year preceding
implementation.
8.        An agreement (conYenio) between the PCU and the Municipal Council would
establish the terms and conditions as well as rights and obligations of each party with respect
to the release and use of the approved funds. These (both loan and state counterpart funds)
would be deposited into an account in a commercial bank, and would be withdrawn solely
upon formal order by the Municipal Council. The Council would screen community
subproject proposals on the basis of the approved POA and the funds made available by the
PCU. An agreement (convenio) between the Municipal Council and the beneficiary
association would be required.
9.        Supervision of the operations of the Municipal Councils would be the
responsibility of the PCU.
10.       A Mid-Term evaluation of the FUMAC-P program would be carried out by
independent evaluators. The basic purpose of this evaluation will be to assess performance
under the pilot program and, if necessary, to adjust its design and mechanisms in order to
improve its procedures and impact on beneficiaries. If the pilot program is found successful
and its expansion is justified, part of the PAC and FUMAC funds under the project could be
transferred to the FUMAC-P program.



- 63 -                        Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Subproject Operation and Maintenance
1.        Although the reformulated NRDP has financed many of the same types of
community investments (e.g., manioc mills or small-scale rural water supply projects) that
have been supported under past programs or projects in the Northeast, one of its innovative
features has been to ensure that these investments are operated and maintained by the
beneficiaries themselves, thereby enhancing their sense of ownership and the prospects for
sustainability of the investments. Under the proposed project, this feature will be maintained
and strengthened.
2.        Community associations will bear the primary responsibility for O&M for most
project-funded investments, and this provision will be included in the agreements (convenios)
with the associations. The relative responsibilities of the associations for O&M would vary
according to the type of investment. As a general rule, beneficiaries would be fully
responsible for operating and maintaining their own productive subprojects and some social
subprojects, such as day care centers or home improvements for health purposes (e.g. for
chagas control). In the case of schools or health posts rehabilitated under the project, and
most infrastructure subprojects, the responsibility for O&M would normally be shared
between the communities and the relevant State or municipal institution. In exceptional cases
of relatively complex subprojects, beneficiary associations might contract private firms or
NGOs to assist them in O&M tasks.
3.        Based on experience under the reformulated NRDP, several types of
arrangements would be implemented in order to ensure the financial sustainability of project
investments, as follows:
(a)       Productive Subprojects (e.g., manioc and rice mills, clothes making, small-
scale irrigation schemes, farm machinery, etc.):
4.        Once a subproject has been approved for financing, the beneficiary association
elects a committee to be in charge of subproject implementation and management. This
committee has the task, among others, of determining the different dues and user fees to be
charged to association members (as well as to non-association members using project
facilities), based on estimated requirements for O&M and capital replacement or eventual
expansion. User fees have to be approved by all association members, and may be paid in
cash, labor or kind, depending on the particular situation. The committee is responsible for
collecting the fees, placing them in a "reserve fund", managing the reserve fund, and making



- 64 -                        Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
payments for recurrent expenditures such as electricity consumption, fuel, inputs, repairs,
and employees' salaries.
(b)       Social Subprojects (e.g., day care centers, housing improvement, school or
health post rehabilitation):
5.        The degree of community involvement in the O&M of social subprojects depends
on the type of investment. In the case of subprojects related to public services, such as
health posts or schools, the municipality or relevant public/private entity could undertake
O&M following an agreement with the community. For other types of subprojects such as
day care centers or house improvement, the community will be responsible for O&M, each
of the community members contributing either financially or in the form of labor.
(c)       Infrastructure Subprojects (e.g., small bridges, water supply systems, fords,
road repairs):
6.        Different arrangements are to be followed for O&M of infrastructure
subprojects. In the case of services (e.g., water supply) connected to individual households,
beneficiaries could transfer the corresponding assets to the relevant state or municipal utility
company, which then undertakes O&M and recovers costs through user fees. Simplified
water supply systems (without connection to households) will be operated and maintained by
the community itself, which makes arrangements for collection of dues or fees from
individual community members to pay for O&M expenses. These arrangements are
commonly found in the rural water supply subprojects financed under the reformulated
NRDP. For infrastructure subprojects such as roads, bridges, and street paving, etc., which
serve a larger public, responsibility for O&M would normally be shared with the
municipality under agreement with the beneficiary association.



- 65 -                         Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
Monitoring
1.        The establishment of an efficient project monitoring system will be instrumental
in following the progression of the investment program and ascertaining its consistency with
project objectives. Project implementation relies heavily on a decentralized system of
decision-making and management, and is driven by demand from rural community
associations which is filtered through a selection process based on established criteria. This
process involves a large number of small, diverse subprojects over an extensive geographic
area. Hence, since the ex ante determination of the pattern of project investment and other
key parameters is not possible, effective supervision depends on the existence of a capable
monitoring system.
2.        The objectives of the project monitoring system are to:
(a)  provide information regarding the progress of the project and the status of the
subproject cycle in its different stages (e.g., subproject approval, procurement,
implementation and disbursement); and,
(b)  verify that project activities are consistent with the guidelines, targeting
methodology and selection criteria included in the Project Operational Manual.
3.        The project monitoring system would depend on a Management Information
System (MIS), created under the reformulated NRDP and to be refined under the project.
The project MIS is a data base which contains pertinent physical and financial information
for each subproject, organized in the following format: by program (PAC, FUMAC, and
FUMAC-P); by type (Infrastructure, Productive and Social subprojects); by category (e.g.,
water supply, transportation, energy, etc.); by sub-category, in particular for water supply
subprojects (e.g., dams, wells, tanks, etc.); and by location (municipality, community and
beneficiary association). Information for the MIS is inputted from data sheets for each
subproject, separated into three modules which correspond to key steps of the subproject
cycle: Module No. I would include information for the subproject regarding its location,
identification, and technical, social and financial characteristics, as well as a set of indicators
such as cost/capita, cost/m2, and other relevant parameters. Module No. 1 data sheets would
be partially completed at the time of presentation of the subproject proposal and finalized
after its appraisal. Module No. 2 data sheets would include information regarding



- 66 -                        Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
procurement procedures and contracting, and would be completed after signature of the
contract!convenio with the beneficiary association. Module No. 3 data sheets would present
disbursement data and would be updated at the time of each payment installment to
beneficiary associations and completed at the time of final installment at the conclusion of
subproject execution. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be responsible for
operating and maintaining the MIS and for providing the input corresponding to PAC
subprojects. The project Municipal Councils would be responsible for completing the data
sheets for FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects and, upon completion of each module, would
present them to the PCU which would subsequently update the MIS.
4.        Given the estimated number of subprojects to be financed during the five years
of project implementation, the MIS is an essential tool for directing the course of project
investment. Information from the MIS is also fundamental to measure compliance with and
the effectiveness of the project's targeting methodology. By monitoring the direciion of
project benefits and types of subprojects being financed, the PCU and the Municipal Councils
can reorient investment incentives or make appropriate changes to the cost-sharing matrix, in
agreement with the Bank. Progress in meeting indicative investment targets set for certain
types of subprojects, such as subprojects with special environmental features, social
subprojects and subprojects which benefit women, will be tracked regularly with the MIS and
the information subsequently used to program technical assistance or promotion to
corresponding groups. Cases of mistargeting or misappropriation of funds--resources
channeled outside the project area or for ineligible investments--will be verified using the
MIS in order for appropriate remedies to be applied.
5.         Within the framework of the project monitoring system, the PCU and the
project Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) are responsible for supervising
the application of the guidelines from the Operational Manual in the development and
implementation of all subprojects. Using the information from the MIS, combined with field
visits and inputs from project-contracted studies and audits, the PCU and the Municipal
Councils would monitor project characteristics and trends, identify implementation problems
and accomplishments and undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project
implementation. The MIS will also serve as a basis from which to derive Annual Operating
Plans (POAs), regulate implementation, and make necessary adjustments to the POAs and
corresponding budgets during the course of each fiscal year. The delineation of monitoring
responsibilities between the PCU and the Municipal Councils would be clearly reflected in
the Project Operational Manual.
Reporting
6.        The PCU is responsible for reporting on project progress to the Bank. Four
types of reports would be generated by the PCU and presented to the Bank:
(a)  a copy of the content of the MIS data base on diskette would be provided on a
monthly basis to the Bank's Field Office in Recife. The information from the



- 67 -                         Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
MIS will facilitate Bank supervision efforts and monitoring of the investment
program;
(b)  an MIS-generated report which would include the updated status of project
implementation (USPI) and an updated list of subprojects with their physical,
procurement and disbursement status would be provided to the Bank's Field
Office in Recife at the same time that the statements of expenditure (SOEs) are
sent to Bank Headquarters. The USPI and subproject list will pennit the Recife
Office to review the eligibility of subprojects presented for reimbursement;
(c) a Semi-annual Project Progress Report, using standard formats agreed with the
Bank, would be presented by July 31 of each year of project implementation; and
(d)  an Annual Report would be presented by January 31 of each year of project
implementation. The Annual Report would use the standard formats from the
semi-annual report but would also include a comprehensive review of: (i) the
status of the project performance indicators and the specific activities of the
institutional development program; (ii) subproject appraisal indicators, the
application of the targeting methodology and subproject investment eligibility
criteria, and other implementation guidelines included in the Operation Manual;
and (iii) other relevant analyses and recommendations from project-contracted
studies and audits which may be applied to improve project implementation.
Evaluation Studies
7.        The project would develop and implement a range of evaluation studies to
measure the impact of the subproject investments and to provide appropriate feedback to
improve project methodology and implementation. The PCU would be responsible for
drafting Terms of Reference (TORs), which would form part of the Project Operational
Manual, and contracting local and other consulting services, both steps in agreement with the
Bank, for the following studies: (a) annual physical performance reviews; (b) a Mid-Term
Review; and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation. These studies are described below.
During the course of project implementation, the PCU may also identify other needed
evaluation studies which can be financed under the project in agreement with the Bank.
8.        Annual Physical Performance Reviews. The objective of the Physical
Performance Review (PPR) is to evaluate the success of investments financed by the project,
in terms of their achievement of specific subproject objectives, and the quality, efficiency,
and sustainability of the investments. For each subproject included in the sample, the study
would focus on the following points: (a) the adequacy of the physical design in relation to
the subproject's objective; (b) the quality and cost of subproject execution; (c) the efficiency
of procurement procedures used; and (d) the targeting of project benefits. The PPR would
provide indication of the effectiveness of community-based procurement; compliance with
and/or needed adjustments to cost indicators and other physical/financial appraisal indicators



- 68 -                        Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
and to the Standard Designs included in the Operational Manual; and the quality of project
investments and the profile of distribution of project benefits. The PPR will also be an
important input to the project's Mid-Term Review and to project Annual Reports.
9.        The PPR will be conducted on the basis of TORs agreed with the Bank and
included in the Operational Manual. The first PPR will be conducted in 1997 for a sample
of subprojects representative of the 1996 investment program (PAC, FUMAC, and
FUMAC-P). To conduct the PPR, the PCU would: (i) establish, with Bank agreement, the
sample of subprojects to be reviewed; (ii) supply counterparts to the independent consultants
contracted by the PCU to implement the study; (iii) participate in the diagnosis and
generation of appropriate recommendations; and (iv) incorporate the recommendations into
the implementation of the project. Subsequent PPRs would be conducted in 1998, 1999 and
2000, for the exercises corresponding to 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively, and would
review physical performance issues identified during the first PPR and monitor
improvements. TORs for the remaining PPRs would be agreed with the Bank by no later
than December 31 of each previous corresponding year.
10.       Mid-Term Review. The purpose of the Mid-Term Review is to assist the State
Government, the PCU and the Bank in the identification of positive experiences and
implementation problems and bottlenecks, in order to recommend needed modifications to
project methodology and procedures for incorporation during the second half of the project
implementation period. Among the various aspects of project implementation to be
reviewed, the Mid-Term Review would evaluate the efficiency and impact of the different
subcomponents (PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P), the effectiveness of institutional
development activities, the level of community participation, and the ability of the project to
target and reach the poor. The Mid-Term Review would be carried out in 1998 by
independent consultants, under T)Rs and contracting procedures agreed with the Bank.
Inputs to the Mid-Term Review would include: the semi-annual and annual reports, MIS-
generated analyses and reports, results of the PPRs, recommendations from project external
and internal audit reports, and additional reviews or studies contracted by the PCU.
11.       Project Impact Evaluation. In addition to the previously mentioned two studies,
which focus primarily on issues of subproject implementation, the project would finance a
series of three (baseline, mid-term and final) evaluations which measure the socio-economic
impact of the subproject investments. This comprehensive evaluation, based on a random
sample survey of representative subproject types, would select important socio-economic
indicators, such as employment, income, health, and education, and measure the impact of
subproject investments on these indicators and consequently the impact of the project on the
quality of life of the beneficiary population. The evaluation would also relate impact back to
specific aspects of the project in order to identify those conditions or activities which resulted
in positive impacts. The indicators would be identified and measured during the baseline
evaluation in the first year of project implementation, and monitored thereafter in the Mid-
Term impact evaluation (during the third year of implementation) and in the final evaluation
at the conclusion of implementation. The impact evaluation would be carried out by
independent consultants and contracted under TORs and procedures acceptable to the Bank.



- 69 -                         Annex 7
Page S of 5
If under the new project the same patterns continue, as under the reformulated NRDP,
productive subprojects could result in the creation of about 46,000 new jobs and could
generate net incremental income of about US$890 per year. About 34,000 families could
have increased access to safe water. These projections are, however, only illustrative and
are not targets, since the project will be entirely demand-driven, and therefore community
preferences could vary significantly.
Implementation Plan and Project Performance Indicators
12.       The implementation plan and project performance indicators for each project
component over the five-year implementation period are shown in Table 7.1 at the end of
this annex. Given the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these indicators
are mostly indicative targets. They can be expected to be achieved at least in the initial year
of the project but may well develop somewhat differently in subsequent years, particularly in
terms of the proportion that each main category of subprojects (infrastructure, social or
productive) would represent out of the total investments financed by the project.



NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Project Implementation Plan and Performance Indicators-
Project Components and Activities        Responsible Institution        Unit         PYO       PYI      PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5    Total
A. Community SubyroiecLs
Subprojects ImplementedZ;                     Beneficiary Associations       No.                     468       468      426   404       364      2130
-Infrastructure                                     "                    No.                     130       130      118    112      100       590
-Social                                                                  No.                      48        48       44     42       38       220
-Productive                                        "                     No.                     290       290      264   250       226      1320
Beneficiaries
-Total1'                                                               Families                 14       14        13        14      11        66
('000)
-Total                                                                  People                  70       70        65       70       55       330
('000)
-women as % of productive                                                 %                     30       30        30       30       30        30
subproject beneficiaries
Community Associations'                            Beneficiary                                                                                                   
Associations           No. (cum.)               234      468       681      883     1065      1065
Municipalities Assisted                               PCU                 No. (cum.)                55       70        70        70      70        70
Municipal Councils
-FUMAC                                                                No. (cum.)                30       45        45       45       45        45
-FUMAC-P                                                              No. (cum.)                 8        8         8        8        8         8
B. Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program of technical       PCU, Municipal
assistance and training                              Councils
(i) PCU                                                                   No.                     I         I        I         I        1         5
(ii) Municipal Councils                                                    No.                   38        54        54       54       54       254
No. of workshops/seminars for
- Beneficiaries 1'                                                                              55       15        --        --       --       70
- Project Municipal Councils 6                                                                   8        4         --       --       --        12
(FUMAC and FUMAC-P)
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only6'                                                              2        --       --        --       --        2
4<



Project Components and Activities      Responsible Institution       Unit         PYO      PY1      PY2      PY3      PY4      PY5    Total
No. of courses "' offered to:
- Beneficiary associations                                            no.                  23        47       68       88      107      333
- Project Municipal Councils                                          no.                  38        53       53       53       53      250
(FUMAC and FUMAC-P) 2'
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only 9/                                  no.                    8        8        8        8        8       40
- PCU staff                                                           no.                   2         2        2        2        2       10
C. Proiect Administrtion.
Monitoring and
Evaluation
Special Account                                     PCU                                x
Publicity Campaign                                  PCU
-Presentation to Bank                                                              x
-Campaign Launched                                                                          x                  x
Operational Manual                                  PCU                   No.          x
-Preparation                                                                                x        x         x        x        x
-Review and Adjustments (with Bank
apprval)
Stuadad Designs
-Preparation                                    PCU                   No.           6       15                                           21
-Review and Updating                                                                                 x         x       x        x
Annual Operating Plans (POAs)
-Preparation of POA for FUMAC-P              FUMAC-P
Councils                                      8        8         8        8       8        40
-Consolidation and Preparation                  PCU                                          I        1        1        I        1        5
of Project POA
Monitoring Reports (sent to Bank)
-Mondtly Disbursement                           PCU                   No.                   12       12       12       12       12       60
Summaries and updating of MIS
database
-Annual/Semi-annual Reports                     PCU                   No.                   2         2        2        2        2       10
-External Audits                                PCU                   No.                    1        1        1        1        1        5



Project Components and Activities        Responsible Institution         Unit          PYO      PYI       PY2      PY3       PY4      PY5      Total
Evaluation Studies
-Physical Performance Reviews                     PCU                     No.                               1         1        1        1         4
-Mid-Term Review                                   PCU                    No.                                         1                            1
-Impact Evaluation                                PCU                     No.
(i) Baseline                                                                                   1
(ii) Mid-Term                                                                                                      1                            1
(iii) Final                                                                                                                           1
1 . Because of the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these targets are indicative and will be re-assessed and revised during the Mid-Term Review.
2.  Based on average costs of approved subprojects in each category in Sergipe.
3.  Estimated on the basis of 30 beneficiary families per subproject.
4.  Assumes an average of 2 subprojects per association (based on NRDP-Sergipe experience).
5.  At least I initial workshop for all communities within each project municipality.
6.  1 workshop for every 5 new Municipal Councils.
7.  Specialized skills training.
8.  1 basic training course initially and at least 1 specialized skills training course per year subsequently for groups of 10 associations.
9.  1 basic training course initially and at least I specialized skills training course per year subsequently for each Municipal Council.                           to
-J
CD3 



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Project Component                                      Totals Including Contingencies
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       Total
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                                               7.8        7.8         7.1        6.8        6A1       35.6
2. FUMAC-P                                              1.3        1.3        1.2        1.1        1.0        5.9
3. PAC                                                 3.0         3.0        2.7        2.6        2.3        1316
Sub-Total                                                 12.1       12.1        11.0       10.5        9.4       55.1
B. Institutional Development                               0.7        0.7        0.5         0.3        0.2        2.4
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation       0.3        0.3        0.4         0.4        0.4        1.8
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                       13.1        13.1       11.9       11.2       10.0       59.3
Physical Contingencies                                 0.1         0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0        0.3
Price Contingencies                                    0.0         0.0        0.1        0.1        0.2        0.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                        13.2        13.2       12.1       11.3       10.2       60.0



- 74-                               Annex 8
Table 8.2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component                            Amounts to be Financed by
State
Goverrnent/
Total Cost    IBRD      Municipalities    Beneficiaries&'
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC
Sub-projects                           35.6        21.0           11.1             3.5
Technical Assistance and Training        0.9         0.9           0.0              0.0
Sub-total                                 36.5        21.9          11.1              3.5
2. FUMAC-P
Sub-projects                             5.9         3.5           1.8             0.6
Technical Assistance and Trining        0.3          0.3           0.0             0.0
Sub-total                                  6.2         3.8            1.8             0.6
3. PAC
Sub-projects                            13.6         8.0           4.2             1.4
Technical Assistance and Training       0.4         0.4           0.0              0.0
Sub-total                                 14.0         8.4           4.2              1.4
B. Institutional Development                   0.8         0.8           0.0              0.0
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Monitoring          1.8         0.6           1.2              0.0
and Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                           59.3        35.5          18.3              5.5
Physical Contingencies                     0.3         0.2           0.1              0.0
Price Contingencies                        0.4         0.3           0.1              0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTb                           60.0        36.0          18.5              5.5
a/ Minimum contribution.
b/ Including about US$2.4 million of taxes and duties not financed by IBRD.



- 75 -                              Annex 8
Table 8.3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                        Item and % of Expenditures                         Total Amount
(US$ million)
I.        Community Subprojects
A. FUMAC                                                             18.9
B. FUMAC-P                                                            3.1
C. PAC                                                                7.2
59% of expenditures
11.        Institutional Development including Technical Assistance, Training
and Evaluation Studies                                                2.5
100% of expenditures
in.        Project Administration and Monitoring System                           0.7
20% of expenditures (except salaries)
IV.         Unallocated                                                           3.6
TOTAL                                                                36.0



- 76 -                              Annex 8
Table 8.4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank           Quarter             Disbursement       Cumulative Disbursement    Balance
FLscal         Ending                 During                                         of
Year                                 Quarter           Amount    % of Total        Loan
1996       March 31, 1996                 --            --           --            36.0
June 30, 1996                  5.5.'          5.5         15.3         30.5
1997       Sept. 30, 1996                 1.5            7.0         19.4          29.0
Dec. 31, 1996                  1.6            8.6         23.9         27.4
March 31, 1997                 1.7           10.3         28.6         25.7
June 30, 1997                  1.7           12.0         33.3         24.0
1998       Sept. 30, 1997                 1.7           13.7         38.1         22.3
Dec. 31, 1997                  1.7           15.4         42.8         20.6
March 31, 1998                 1.8           17.2         47.8         18.8
June 30, 1998                  1.8           19.0         52.8          17.0
1999       Sept. 30, 1998                 1.9           20.9         58.1          15.1
Dec. 31, 1998                  1.9           22.8         63.3          13.2
March 31, 1999                 1.9           24.7         68.6          11.3
June 30, 1999                  1.8           26.5         73.6          9.5
2000       Sept. 30, 1999                  1.8          28.3         78.6           7.7
Dec. 31, 1999                  1.8           30.1         83.6          5.9
March 31, 2000                 1.7           31.8         88.3          4.2
June 30, 2000                  1.7           33.5         93.1           2.5
2001       Sept. 30, 2000                  1.5          35.0         97.2           1.0
Dec. 31, 2000                  1.0           36.0        100.0          0.0
a! Including the authorized allocation of US$3.0 million into the Special Account.



- 77 -                         Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Project Operational Manual (Outline)
The Operational Manual would have the following table of contents:
I.    Introductory remarks
II.    The Organization of the Manual
III.   The Project
A.   Objectives
B.    Strategy
C.    Targets
D.    Project Area
E.    Components
F.    Eligibility criteria
1.    Compliance with poverty targeting methodology
2.    Consistency with standard technical designs
3.    Consistency with financial/cost parameters
4.    Socio-economic evaluation
5.    Environmental assessment
G.    Operational guidelines
1.    Project coordination
2.    FUMAC
3.    FUMAC-P
4.    PAC
5.    The subproject cycle: identification, preparation, submission,
evaluation, implementation, conclusion, technical assistance,
operation and maintenance
6.    Procurement
7.    Cost-sharing matrix
8.    Fund release and statements of expenditure
9.    Operational Checks and Balances
10.   Monitoring and evaluation



- 78 -                         Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Annexes:
A.   Standard subproject designs
B.    Standard agreements
C.    Standard forms (for proposal submittal, ata de recebimento, etc.)
D.    Guidelines for FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
E.    Management Infornation System (MIS) and reporting
F.    Flow of funds and statements of expenditure
G.    Project administration
H.   Technical assistance, training and studies



- 79 -                         Annex 10
Page I of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
Supervision Plan
1.        The principal responsibility for supervision of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
will rest with the State Government through the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), and with the
Bank through its Recife Office in conjunction with staff from Headquarters. The Municipal
Councils will also supervise the execution of community subprojects within their respective
municipalities. International agencies, such as IICA or FAO, are expected to play an important
role in performing supervision activities which require specific expertise. Selected NGOs may
also be contracted by the State or the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils to assist with supervision
activities and evaluation of the status of community organization and mobilization.
2.        Supervision will be performed at two levels: at the project level, where the PCU
will monitor global trends across all project municipalities; and, at the subproject level, where
the PCU staff and the project Municipal Councils will monitor the performance of individual
subprojects. The PCU will set up a team to supervise the subproject cycle on a continuous
basis. At the project level, the State's responsibilities for project supervision are: (i) to focus
on global project implementation and administration; and, (ii) to review activities of the FUMAC
and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils. Supervision of project Municipal Councils by the PCU will
focus on:  the Councils' composition, to ensure satisfactory beneficiary representation; the
frequency and openness of Councils' meetings; and their effectiveness in providing assistance
to the beneficiary communities. In addition to these points, the PCU's supervision of the
FIJMAC-P Municipal Councils, in particular, will focus on the criteria applied to screen and
prioritize subproject proposals and the administrative and financial arrangements made by the
Councils to effectively control and release project funds to the community associations.
31        At the subproject level, the PCU, together with the corresponding Municipal
Councils, will carry out the following subproject supervision tasks: (i) verification of the status
and quality of subproject implementation (PAC by the PCU and FUMAC and FUMAC-P by
corresponding Municipal Councils); (ii) assessment of community participation in the
identification, preparation and execution of subprojects; (iii) evaluation of the extent to which
communities are organized to undertake the operation and maintenance of the investments; and
(iv) determination of whether communities satisfy the targeting criteria. Information collected
during supervision, including indicators of subproject implementation performance and
identification of principal bottlenecks or problems, will be incorporated into the standard data
sheets completed by the PCU for each subproject (Annex 7).
4.        Based on the information collected at the project and subproject levels, the PCU will
prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual and annual reports on the overall financial and



-80-                          Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
physical status of project implementation and performance. The PCU will also provide the
Bank's Recife Office with copies of all SOEs and reimbursement applications when these are
submitted to Bank Headquarters (Annex 7).  In addition, the PCU will present the Annual
Operating Plan (POA) and corresponding budget for each subsequent fiscal year of
implementation to the Bank for its review and comment.
5.        The Bank will carry out at least two regular supervision missions per year. Regular
supervision will entail: (i) a discussion of project implementation problems identified by the
PCU; (ii) field visits to a random sample of community subprojects; and (iii) a review of the
performance of all project components, and particularly an intensive assessment of the FUMAC-
P pilot program, to address problems and make appropriate recommendations. In addition,
based on frequent communication with the PCU, the Recife Office will conduct short supervision
missions to address problems which require prompt action. Also, in view of the diversity of
community subprojects, consultants of different expertise would be contracted to provide
occasional input and advice to Bank missions. Two full supervision reports will be issued
annually, as well as Back-to-Office Reports for each short supervision mission. It is estimated
that about 45 staff-weeks will be required for project supervision, or about 9 staff-weeks
annually during the five years of project implementation.
6.        The schedule of project supervision is as follows:
(a)  by July 31 and January 31 of each year, presentation of semi-annual and annual
reports from the PCU to the Bank;
(b)  by February and September of each year, full Bank supervision missions completed;
(c)  by October 30 of each year, presentation of the POA for the subsequent year to the
Bank for review and comment by November 15.



- 81 -                       Annex 11
PaLe 1 of I
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - SERGIPE
List of Documents Available in Project Files
1.   Anufirio Estatistico de Sergipe:  1992, Secretaria do Estado do Planejamento
(SEPLAN)/Superintendencia de Estudos e Pesquisas (SUPES).
2.   Boletim Conjuntural--Nordeste do Brasil: 1994, Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento
do Nordeste (SUDENE)/ Fundacao Joaquim Nabuco (FUNDAJ), 1994.
3.   Brazil: NRDP and a Possible Follow-Up Program, draft, FAO/CP, February 1995.
4.   Censo Demografico 1991: Resultados do Universo Relativos as Caracteristicas da
bpula,o e dos Domicilios--Brasil, Numero 1, IBGE, 1991.
5.   Censo Demografico 1991: Resultados do Universo Relativos is Caracteristicas da
Pbpulaco e dos Domicilios--Sergipe, Numero 16, EBGE, 1991.
6.   Informac,es sobre o Estado de Sergipe, PRONESE/SEPLAN, 1995.
7.   0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, three volumes, 1993.
8.   Municipios Brasileiros--Criancas e suas Condioes de Sobrvivencia, UNICEF/IBGE,
1994.
9.   Programa de Governo Albano Franco, 1995.
10.  Projeto de Desenvolvimento Municipal Sustentfivel, ARIDAS, October 1994.
11.  Safety Nets and Social Funds to Alleviate Poverty: Performance Problems and Policy
Options, Issues Note, UNCTAD, October 29, 1993.
12.  A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP-PAPP), Conrad Kottak, Febniary 7, 1994 (Draft).






J8 o0              37530 ,-                                                                                         ( VENEZUE3A7 /r 
~~~~~ ~~~Alt,..... o1,ci
B R A  Z  I L                                                    r'y ,   h          r        AMAA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT                                                                                             '    --.
S ERGIPE                                                       _J    AMAZONAS        ,/    PARA
c -   ,   .    s <         . A r ' ~~~PIAUI  7.,s,
' t;   i yI'nrA,B  R  A  Z  I                        SERGePE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PE RU                                                                    _!AiAlo10 ) ZA,I,_
9 30'                                                   ,0     10       20       3?       40       50                     930       RU                     GR0550  S S
k 0                                                KILOMETERS                                                       .   BoLivIA
I  An    MINAS
GfRAIS  .,sMg,,
Ih          eAOul A/omo , u_ r a {  5 ,  D
C J j    o    u kHIIEJ  P Ge.p; ,,a    JANEIRO
,/   S Frc.nc,.-Ot   I\<tA IA/IA                                                                                                             Allan!,, Occan
ARGENTINA        &iO
R,.                                                                                                ---- sNORHFIEAsr REGION
t               t7tdo                                 >                          ,,       7 0u                       {     J'          X~~~~~~~1.  OUNDArlE5
3700'                                           3  0
A  L A G  0  A  S                      10'00
10 00'                                                                       A4,  . .gp
F~~~                        Aqu.d.~Coli bo
B A  H I A                                                                      N.-< <                   <f              /         <         //    N
i    |   t   lloboinncz       41            //                 !  A    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fcoub
it,j#/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                          r-'j '1030
'ABarrelo  I  A I   I \                  Jo-
F,.i P..I.  Ril,.k6pliu II.       A   I
2 llobooa / r> | >s7) ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREA EXCLUDED FROM THE PROJECT
Pi JJ.p/ ,., .t I,.\                                                                             AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS
S,  a   |   \        S/  /             Ut~~~~~Sonlo I$ijo o Mn1,                                     CLIMATIC ZONES:
M { \  }__ ./Umboabo   /   s)t . ( gd                       HUMID
SEMI-ARID
fiI, baandwolls, cala,s.           2                h  d- y         /                                                            Dmu SELECTED  CITIES  AND TOWNS                       lI'30'
L,norn,nol,an. and anr               N
II33'  n,iA.,i.tinpmdaaa ;bcwn     ,                                                                                                    - l  so$+ndooo<,-  MAIN ROADS
imply aton  aai d aol Nf EOf pLbida              'I 't  1                                                                                STATE CAPITAL
Pha WaddbL GRE Oa rp.
any jadganoni on hd bogof                                                                                                                 STATE ROUNDARIES_
r   orocccepIonce of SiCE
m   h,acndnnoe,                                                                                ai                                                                                              O
a  b-.              38 00'                                             37E3'                                              37100                                              36 30
a                         I~~~~~~.









IMAGING
Report No:       14394 BR
Type: SAR



