Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23396
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39190)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$36.0 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF SERGIPE
FOR A
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
12/21/2001
Essd
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.00 = US$ 0.44
US$ 1.00 = 2.23
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCR               Program of Support to Small Rural Communities (original NRDP)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
EMATER             Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency
FAO/CP             World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC              Municipal Community Schemes
FUMAC-P            Pilot Municipal Community Funds
IICA               Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
IRR                Internal Rate of Return
MIS                Management Infonmation System
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
PAC                State Community Schemes
PCU                Project Coordinating Unit
POA                Annual Operating Plan
PRONESE            Northeast Program of the State of Sergipe (TU)
R-NRDP             Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
SEPLAN             State Secretariat for Planning, Science and Technology
SOE                Statements of Expenditure (Prestaado de Contas)
TU                 Technical Unit
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:  John Redwood
Task Team Leader:  Luis 0. Coirolo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
Rural Poverty Alleviation - Sergipe
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    l
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             12
6. Sustainability                                                                 13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                18
9. Partner Comments                                                               20
10. Additional Information                                                        21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






lProject ID: P038885                                     Project Name: Rural Poverty Alleviation - Sergipe
Team Leader: Luis 0. Coirolo                             TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Rural Poverty Alleviation - Sergipe           L/C/TFNumber: CPL-39190
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/09/95                              Effective:                   04/17/96
Appraisal:  04/15/95                                 MTR: 09/30/98             03/01/99
Approval:  06/29/95                               Closing: 12/31/2000         06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  State of Sergipe/Technical Unit for the Sergipe Northeast Project (PRONESE) of
the State Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLAN)
Other Partners:  Municipal Councils and Community Associations
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     David de Ferranti                         Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Vinod Thomas                             Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Mark Cackler                             Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:  Luis 0. Coirolo                          Luis 0. Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:  Anna Roumani; supported by
project Task Manager Tulio
Barbosa (LCSRE) and Brazil
Northeast Team
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
Tlhe objectives of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP), as stated in the Loan Agreement
were to "assist the Borrower's efforts to alleviate rural poverty in the Municipalities by: (a)
providing basic social and economic infrastructure and employment- and income-generating
opportunities; (b) supporting rural communities in planning and implementing their own
subprojects; (c) providing a safety net for the rural poor; and (d) leveraging revenue mobilization
at the community and municipal levels." The project was part of the Bank's Program of Targeted
Interventions. Accurate poverty targeting and the direct, reliable transfer of funds to the poorest
communities, combined with promoting decentralized decision-making to State, municipal and
local levels were important complementary objectives.
3-2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had three main components: (a) Community Subprojects (US$55.1 million, 93% of
total base cost), supporting small scale investments of up to US$50,000, selected, implemented,
operated and maintained by the beneficiaries themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$2.4
rnillion, 4% of total base cost), providing implementing entities and communities with technical
assistance and training to increase their capacity and improve implementation of the project; and
(c) Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.8 million, 3% of total base cost),
financing project coordination and activities to generate feedback on project performance and
impact. These components represented an appropriate set of actions to achieve project objectives
and to benefit directly 330,000 poor rural people (about 60% of the target population in Sergipe).
Table 1 shows project components with cost at appraisal and expenditure at Closing. Project cost
was lower than estimated at appraisal due mainly to the effects of the increase in Bank-cost
sharing from 60% to 75% (see 3.4) and steady devaluation of the Brazilian Real/US Dollar
exchange rate starting from 1999.
Table 1. Comparison of Cost at Appraisal and Actual Expenditures
Rating         Component        Total Cost at  Expenditure at
Appraisal      Closing
(06/30/01)
(US$mil1.)     (US$mill.)
S        A. Community Subprojects  55.1 of which:  52.4 of which:
S           FUMAC               35.6                 36.7
S           FUMAC-P              5.9                 4.1
S           PAC                  13.6                11.6
S        B. Institutional Development 2.4             1.5
S        C. Project Administration,  1.8             3.4
Monitoring and Evaluation
Physical and price       0.7                 0.0
contingencies:
60.0                57.4
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised. However, the Loan Agreement was revised as follows: (i) Bank
share increased from 60% to 75% from February 12, 1999, in line with financing provisions of
other participating RPAP states; (ii) subcategory of expenditures created for field supervision
(US$500,000), financed 50% by Bank; (iii) US$4.2 million of resources reallocated to FUMAC
and FUMAC-P (December 14, 1999); and (iv) Closing Date extended from December 31, 2000
to June 30, 2001.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Appraisal of this project pre-dated the QAG. Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory by the ICR.
Project objectives were appropriate in view of: (i) the severity of poverty and deprivation
affecting a high proportion of the rural population in Sergipe, the smallest state in the Northeast,
where about half the state falls within the "drought polygon". Agriculture is dominated by low
technology subsistence farming, with about 33% of rural families earning one minimum wage or
less per month (about US$70); (ii) the State Government's own strategy to combat rural poverty
by (a) improving infrastructure and basic services, thus improving living conditions and stemming
migration to urban centers and (b) implementing a comprehensive program of community projects
in rural areas responding to priorities identified by the communities themselves, thus generating
greater impact with State Government resources; (iii) the success, observed and measured, of the
community-based mechanisms, tested at full-scale under the previously Bank-financed
reformulated Northeast Rural Development Projects (R-NRDP), in improving the well-being and
social capital of poor rural communities in Sergipe and other participating states; (iv) consistency
with the Brazil CAS (1993), which called, inter alia, for broad-based economic growth, with
proper targeting and delivery of services to the poor, to reduce poverty and inequity; and (v)
demonstrated commitment of the State and exceptionally strong demand for project investments
from rural communities.
The approach represented a marked shift from several decades of rural development programs in
the Northeast which, while piloting important sector initiatives, had only limited impact on rural
poverty. Delivery mechanisms relied exclusively on Federal and state bureaucracies, counterpart
funding was erratic and barely one-third of project funds reached intended beneficiaries. The new
approach - piloted as a small component of the NRDP and converted, by reformulation of the
NRDP in 1993, to the template for poverty projects with greater impact, cost-effectiveness and
sustainability -- has five guiding principles: (i) place money for implementing approved
subprojects directly into the hands of the beneficiary communities; (ii) decentralize
decision-making and involve local authorities as participants;(iii) maintain transparent
decision-making at all levels; (iv) stress community participation in planning, financing, executing,
operating and maintaining the investments; and (v) use simple, explicit and monitorable poverty
targeting mechanisms. The approach is administratively simple, dispensing with intermediary
agencies and the bureaucratic/coordination stresses of its predecessors, thus ensuring that the vast
majority of project resources (about 91 %) are used for direct subproject investment, with the rest
directed mainly to technical assistance and training of the beneficiaries themselves.
- 3 -



The methodology employs three mechanisms of increasing decentralization to screen, approve and
implement community requests for financing - PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P. Under PAC
(State Community Schemes), rural communities submit investment proposals directly to the State
Technical Unit (TU), which screens and approves them, releasing funds to the beneficiary
associations; with FUMAC (Municipal Community Schemes) decision-making on investment
proposals is delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, representative bodies
comprising 80% community members and local civil society and 20% municipal authorities.
Councils discuss, establish priorities and approve community proposals. Reviewed by the TU for
consistency with the Operational Manual, proposals are then funded, with disbursement directly to
the community association bank account. Councils monitor and supervise subproject execution.
FUMAC-P (Pilot Municipal Community Funds) is a more decentralized variant of FUMAC
piloted under the RPAP. With an annual budget envelope established by the TU on the basis of
clear criteria (rural population, poverty levels, previous year's performance), Councils submit an
Annual Operating Plan (POA) for TU review. Approval releases budget to the Council which is
responsible for managing its distribution to beneficiary associations and assisting with subproject
implementation. The State TU (PRONESE) concentrates on monitoring, technical assistance and
supervision.
Design of the Sergipe project adhered to lessons from the R-NRDP, expanded
successfully-piloted features and introduced further innovations and improvements. The project
mainstreamed the FUMAC Municipal Councils (a pilot under the R-NDRP), and introduced the
pilot municipal funds component (FUMAC-P) giving greater control over budget resources to
selected, high-performing FUMAC Councils; systematized beneficiary targeting and transparency
with incentives/penalties based on performance; introduced an improved MIS (with data sent
regularly via internet to the Bank) to support proper targeting, monitoring and evaluation, and
project management; introduced an Operational Manual with technical and financial parameters;
and funded technical assistance to support mobilization and organization, build capacity and
encourage participation of community associations. This was further reinforced by intensive
supervision, standardized subproject design and cost parameters, publicity/information campaigns,
cost-sharing requirements for the state government and beneficiaries and best practice exchanges
with other states and between participating entities (FUMAC Councils, community associations).
Experience in Brazil and elsewhere showed that the main sources of risk for rural poverty projects
were irregular funding, technical weaknesses/over-design and inadequate supervision,
mis-targeting of resources and overly centralized decision-making. The Sergipe project reflected
prudent measures to avoid or reduce those risks, which became standard practice in all states
participating in the RPAP, and have proven effective in practice.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Rated Satisfactory.
Objective - Providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment and
income-generating opportunities:
The project successfully met this primary objective by implementing about 1,810 small-scale
investments benefiting close to 60,000 families (without repetition, i.e. with at least one
subproject), representing some 300,000 rural poor. Of the subprojects financed, the major
portion (84%) was rural infrastructure including rural electrification and water supply. Rural
electrification has obvious benefits in terms of access to information, knowledge (including
distance learning via radio and television), as well as the use of appliances and machinery,
functioning of night schools (for adults) and contributes to better health (food and medicine
conservation). Evidence also suggests that rural electrification investments, when accompanied
by other investments such as water supply, lead to productive activities which create jobs and
increase income. Activities can be new, like irrigation and opening up small commerce and
agro-industries, or existing activities whose output and productivity are much greater when
equipped with energy, e.g., manioc mills, formerly hand-operated. Water supply has important
implications for family health and for fiscal savings to states and municipalities from reduced
expenditures on health services and water trucks. Community street paving and telephone
facilities, also common investments in Sergipe, enhance living conditions and foster
communication with family members resident outside the community for the purposes of remitting
funds. Productive investments including communal farm tractors and manioc mills, have more
direct effects on employment and income. Tractors increase cultivated area, facilitate better soil
preparation and permit more timely planting to exploit scarce rainfall (in addition to being a
valued form of transportation in agricultural areas). Manioc mills reduce processing time,
improve product quality (normally artisanal), create jobs and increase cultivated area by releasing
farmers for field work.
Objective - Supporting rural community groups in planning and implementing their own
subprojects:
The project successfully supported and funded rural groups in planning and executing their own
subprojects. About 934 community associations participated in the project and a large number
received technical assistance and training. PRONESE focused on training FUMAC and
FUMAC-P Councils to select and prioritize community needs and to prepare sound, viable
investment proposals. Communities received similar training under the institutional development
component. PRONESE developed 19 standardized subproject designs - with cost parameters --
to assist beneficiaries with technical design and construction of commonly-demanded investments,
e.g., manioc mills, septic tanks and community housing improvement. This had many benefits for
the communities: promoted the participation of poorer communities by simplifying the preparation
and evaluation of subprojects, fostered greater competition and better quality in execution of
-5 -



works, reduced subproject cost and communities' dependence on private firms, and facilitated
procurement. Finally, of equal importance, the mobilization, organization, training and technical
assistance associated with the subproject investment cycle fostered the gradual, substantial and
measurable accumulation of social capital in poor rural communities.
Objective - Providing a safety net for the rural poor:
Combined with other social programs funded by the state and federal governments, project
investments have provided a safety net to shield the rural poor from the effects of fiscal
adjustment. RPAP subprojects not only complement traditional public investments in rural
infrastructure (such as water supply and rural electrification) but also create income and
employment opportunities which would not otherwise be provided to the poorest rural
communities in view of difficulties reaching the poor with these traditional programs and lately,
due to fiscal constraints faced by the State. The RPAP projects, targeting the poorest and
providing productive, infrastructure and social investment funds through matching grants to
targeted communities - and given the projects' decentralized and participatory methodology and
operation - represent a successful safety net program. These projects, under the R-NRDP and
subsequent RPAP, became the single most important source of funding for protection of the poor
in the rural Northeast.
*The recent Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal imposes further burdens on the states and municipalities (and Federal Government) to constrain
expenditures. The Federal Govemment is increasing its own national safety net program through the Projeto Alvorada (umbrella for the Bank's new
generation of rural poverty projects) and PRONAF (working and investnent credit for poor communities).
Objective - Leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and municipal levels:
The RPAP remains one of only a few Brazilian programs which can leverage revenue mobilization
at both the community and municipal levels. Under the project's matching grant feature,
beneficiary cost sharing (famnily labor, cash and materials) totaled about US$5.3 million, or 10%
of total subproject costs at Closing. While contributions by municipalities were not required
under the Loan Agreement to finance community subprojects, about 60% of them contributed an
amount equivalent to US$3.0 million, or 3% of total subproject cost at Closing. Additionally,
municipalities frequently contributed to the overall project effort in the form of logistical support
to the FUMAC Councils (equipment, premises, transportation for meetings), time spent by
municipal staff participating in Council meetings, and other contributions to community
mobilization and technical assistance efforts, the value of which is estimated at about US$0.5
million.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Community Subprojects
Rated Satisfactory
This component financed small-scale investments selected, implemented, operated and maintained
by the beneficiaries. Investments of up to US$50,000 each were financed through matching grants
(public grants "matched" with community contribution), with legally-constituted community
associations identif-ying their priorities and committing to their operation and maintenance through
- 6 -



their labor or user fees. The project was expected to finance 2130 community-managed
subprojects over a 5-year period including basic infrastructure, productive and social investments,
and benefit some 66,000 families organized into 1065 associations in 71 municipalities. An
estimated 45 FUJMAC and 8 FUMAC-P Councils were to be established. These targets were
largely indicative due to the demand-driven, flexible nature of the project.
In just over five years, the Sergipe RPAP achieved the following: (i) implemented about 1,810
subprojects (85% of an indicative target); (ii) financed at least one subproject for about 60,000
families or some 300,000 rural poor (91% of target) organized into 934 community associations
(88%) in 71 municipalities; (iii) established 57 FUJMAC and 11 FUMAC-P Councils (127% and
138% of target respectively). About 470 associations were repeat participants, having
implemented two or more subprojects.
The physical implementation review conducted by PRONESE for its own MTR evaluation, as
well as sample subprojects assessed in the field during the MTR and regular supervision missions,
found the great majority of investments to be satisfactory from the technical and qualitative
standpoint of materials, scale and operation. About 50% of subprojects were executed by
beneficiaries themselves, and another 45% by private firms contracted by the communities.
Contrary to forecasts, the vast majority (84%) of investments were for basic infrastructure, 1 1%
productive and 5% social. Community demand clearly reflected the need for the "basics" before
embarking on productive and other investments. These categories of infrastructure tend to have a
broader beneficiary base and be higher cost - the result is fewer investments but much greater
numbers of beneficiaries. Field observation showed that access to operating subprojects was
generally inclusive, covering residents outside community limits and non-members of associations
as well as formal members of both.
Performance of FUMAC and FUMAC-P exceeded targets. The coverage of virtually all eligible
municipalities with FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils in Sergipe (68 out of 71) was the result of
an action strategy devised in collaboration with PRONESE to speed up the creation of Councils,
which had lagged in the initial stages in favor of exhausting funds for PAC. The strategy stressed
local initiative, mobilization and training, restructuring weak Councils, increasing representation
while limiting numbers of members with voting rights so that Councils did not become unwieldy,
and including the mayor in Council proceedings. The MTR mission persuaded PRONESE to
reduce its direct participation in Council proceedings in order to promote greater autonomy
within the Councils in defining and implementing their priorities. PRONESE adopted the annual
budget envelope concept for Councils to increase their financial decentralization, and each
Council started receiving a transfer of funds based on an annual operating plan (POA), submitted
to PRONESE. FUMAC Councils on the other hand, each received an annual indicative budget
from PRONESE, with the release of funds contingent on a Council's performance. Councils
prepared their annual municipal Development Plan ob the basis of this budget. The Bank
approved (by amendment to the Loan Agreement) a State request to reallocate some US$4.2
million of Loan funds to FUMAC and FUMAC-P due to high demand.
Average subproject cost at Closing was about US$27,000, well below the US$50,000 ceiling
established at appraisal. At mid-term, the average had declined to under US$20,000, falling from
- 7 -



US$36,000 in 1996 then falling steadily. This trend was consistent across all subproject types.
Average costs for subprojects implemented directly by the associations were from 10-40% lower
than similar subprojects implemented by third party providers, and of better quality and speed of
execution. Average cost per beneficiary family was US$186 at Closing, having fluctuated between
US$140 and US$190 over time. Declining average costs are attributed to direct implementation
by beneficiaries; stronger focus on increased competition between firms contracted for subproject
execution; and revision/updating of standardized subproject designs.
Targeting was successful under the Sergipe project; beneficiaries belonged to the intended profile.
After the MTR, a concerted effort was made to expand and intensify coverage of more remote,
disorganized communities which had yet to participate. FUMAC Councils became the agents for
studying and determining poverty ranking, and hence priority for mobilization, organization and
investment. Participation of women was high, directly as beneficiaries of specific types of
investments (sewing workshops, creches, laundries) and more generally (water supply,
electricity). Experience with the FUMAC Councils demonstrates that communities themselves are
the best-equipped/informed to target effectively. Field observations in Sergipe (and other NE
states) showed that Councils were already encouraging communities which had several
investments and had improved their relative socio-economic standing, to seek alternative financing
for other priorities. Councils were reducing priority ranking of such communities and/or
excluding their requests from consideration, in favor of communities yet to benefit.
B. Institutional Development
Rated Satisfactory
The project funded technical assistance (TA) and training for PRONESE, the Councils and
community associations to increase the capacity and improve project implementation. TA/training
included: (i) introductory seminars on the Operational Manual, roles of the FUMAC and
FUMAC-P Councils; (ii) specialized skills training for PRONESE and the FUMAC Councils
including environmental assessment, monitoring and financial administration; (iii) TA and training
for participating communities in mobilization, organization, subproject preparation, operation and
maintenance of investments, as well as specialized advice; and (iv) workshops and seminars for
FUMAC Councils and associations to exchange experiences and provide guidance. PRONESE
has substantial administrative and financial autonomy, indicating the priority assigned to the
project by the state. It follows a holistic approach to subproject development by supporting three
distinct multi-disciplinary technical teams, each with a specific regional focus. PRONESE
devoted much effort to training the FUMAC Councils but had some difficulty relinquishing its
firm (but benevolent) control over them - they lacked operational autonomy and independence.
This eased considerably over time.
The TU planned and delivered 98 training events for beneficiary associations (3,446 attendees) in
management, accounting/submission of accounts and monitoring of execution/implementation;
delivered 21 training events for FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils attended by 1190 council
members, in matters such as Council operations, analysis and assessment of community proposals,
and monitoring of subproject execution. The MTR mission recommended that the scope and
scale of TA be increased since expenditure from the training component lagged behind the pace of
-8 -



Council creation. The Bank also agreed with PRONESE that 2% of the indicative budget for each
FUMAC Councils (or actual budget for FUMAC-P) would be available for TA and training.
Resources were to be accessed from Loan funds with 100% Bank financing.
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
Rated Satisfactory
This component performed as expected, supporting project coordination and activities to
assess/measure project performance and impact; incremental operating costs (excluding salaries)
of PRONESE to enhance supervision and strengthen project operations; the project MIS,
evaluation studies and the state's initial and follow-up project publicity programs to raise
awareness of project rules and methodology.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not include an economic or financial rate of return for the project. Rather, an
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the
R-NRDP for the most common types of investments. Similar benefits were expected on a larger
scale, from the RPAP including Sergipe. Subprojects financed by the RPAP did not differ
significantly in type from the R-NRDP. A similar analysis has therefore been done of the
program-wide investments under the RPAP for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and the
financial viability of productive subprojects. An assessment is also provided of the fiscal impact of
the project in Sergipe. See below and Annex 3.
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability
The CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery to the poorest can work
cost-effectively in the Northeast, supported by several basic design features: (i) demand-driven
subproject priority-setting and selection within a democratic forum, the Councils; (ii) standard
technical designs and cost parameters, ensuring the use of least-cost models and providing
established patterns of initiating and completing subprojects; and (iii) delegating subproject
implementation directly to community associations, which generates cost savings relative to
similar works implemented by public agencies. The contracting procedures set down in the
Operational Manual require direct contracting through competitive processes on all subprojects;
associations solicit three bids and chooses the least cost bid. Analysis of a random sample of
subprojects including ten categories representing about 80% of types financed, found RPAP costs
to be from 30-50% cheaper than subprojects of similar quality, implemented by the state. In the
six states surveyed, including Sergipe, the majority of subprojects were rated technically
satisfactory and of good quality. Operation and maintenance has been good, with associations
charging appropriate user fees. A general evaluation in 2000 found that 89% of a sample of
8,123 R-NRDP (1995) and RPAP (1997/98) subprojects, had remained fully operational. There
was no substantial difference in sustainability across infrastructure, productive or social
investments.
-9-



Fiscal Impact
Evaluations indicate that subproject investments make a significant fiscal contribution through
cost savings to state and municipal governments. In Sergipe, the RPAP project is estimated to
have saved over R$430,000 per year in a year of "normal" rainfall by eliminating, through
investments in water supply, the distribution by water truck to communities without drinking
water at critical periods. In years of severe drought (1998), these savings more than doubled.
Meanwhile, provision of better quality, more reliable water reduced the public health costs to
municipal governments. Cost savings also derive from the community-driven design of the
project; subprojects implemented by communities, directly or contracted, were 30-50% lower
than prices paid by public authorities for works of similar type and quality. Finally, in terms of
revenue generation, the RPAP Sergipe and other states showed that there was a large increase in
the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became available, significantly
increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities.* The MTR estimated incremental ICMS revenue
from increased production and electrical equipment/appliances to be about R$2.0 million in
Sergipe.
* ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections regardless of where it is collected.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) and investments are financially sustainable, based on
analysis of 12 selected, typical productive subprojects. While beneficiaries receive a one-time
investment grant from the RPAP, it is financially sustainable because cost recovery through user
fees is generally adequate to cover O&M and replacement of the original investment long before
the end of its useful economic life. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return some
of them being high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and less
than 3.5 years in half the cases. IRRs compare favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the
Brazilian Government, which is about 11-12%.
Testing financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out on the
illustrative models which determined that: some subprojects - generally those highly dependent on
purchased inputs (fish farm, dairy plant, bakery) -- are more sensitive than others to changing
market conditions. In all cases, the worst scenario is one where prices decrease.
Fiscal Impact
Evaluations indicate that subproject investments make a significant fiscal contribution through
cost savings to state and municipal governments. In Sergipe, the RPAP project is estimated to
have saved over R$430,000 per year in a year of "normal" rainfall by eliminating, through
investments in water supply, the distribution by water truck to communities without drinking
water at critical periods. In years of severe drought (1998), these savings more than doubled.
Meanwhile, provision of better quality, more reliable water reduced the public health costs to
- 10-



municipal governments. Cost savings also derive from the community-driven design of the
project; subprojects implemented by communities, directly or contracted, were 30-50% lower
than prices paid by public authorities for works of similar type and quality. Finally, in terms of
revenue generation, the RPAP Sergipe and other states showed that there was a large increase in
the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became available, significantly
increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities.* The MTR estimated incremental ICMS revenue
from increased production and electrical equipment/appliances to be about R$2.0 million in
Sergipe.
* ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections regardless of where it is collected.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As a participatory, demand-oriented mechanism, the Sergipe project, like its peers in other states,
involved many actors and stakeholders. Evaluations, including a community participation study in
Sergipe and five other RPAP states which analyzed social capital formation, have assessed
institutional impact on the community associations, Municipal Councils and Technical Units
including PRONESE, concluding as follows:
Community Associations: Community associations created under the program have generally
performed well. Members have typically met their collective responsibilities and the associations
have benefited from the efforts of mayors, the technical units and civil society entities to
disseminate information about the program and create the conditions under which communities
could benefit from it. Membership of associations has proven to be inclusive with women
increasingly and successfully assuming leadership roles. Importantly, the benefits of subprojects
have tended to reach non-members as well as members. Studies show that technical assistance is
critical for the success and sustainability of associations at their formation/organizational stage,
throughout the investment cycle and longer-term.
Municipal Councils: As fora for democratic discussion, the project Municipal Councils have
increased transparency, reduced political interference, improved targeting, and contributed to
social capital formation in rural communities. There is little doubt remaining that the Councils are
much more effective than PAC in inducing social and cultural change. The Municipal Councils are
becoming an integral part of local government planning, steadily overcoming the risk of being
short-lived parallel structures by their evolving fusion with local government. They are
increasingly recognized by local populations and their elected officials as valid representatives of
communities and civil society, and as partners of local administrations in fostering and sustaining
municipal development.* Under the new Rural Poverty Reduction Project in Sergipe (awaiting
Board approval), a series of adjustments have been introduced to further improve Councils'
performance and capacity to boost social capital.
* Across the six states evaluated/studied, including Sergipe, some 30% of Councils were making decisions on priorities for municipal resources, not
only project-related allocations.
Technical Unit: The TU administers the project, acts as vehicle for communication with the
Bank and State Government, and as principal liaison with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils
and in PAC municipalities, with the community associations. In Sergipe, PRONESE rates highly
- 11 -



in terms of its political, institutional and budgetary autonomy. The unit has established three
multi-disciplinary teams, each in one region of the state, to process community proposals.
PRONESE has benefited from extensive training in areas directly relevant to the project and has
satisfactory technical capacity. PRONESE steadily built on its already solid technical,
administrative and financial management capacity and showed excellent performance in executing
training activities for the associations and Councils. PRONESE put great effort into training the
FUMAC Councils but this effort only began to pay off in terms of their greater independence and
autonomy towards the end of the project.
Social Capital: Fostering social capital in rural municipalities and communities has been a
watershed achievement of the RPAP projects, including Sergipe. As participatory, transparent
and representative forums for setting priorities and making decisions, the municipal councils have
reduced political interference and clientelism; created partnerships between communities,
municipal councils and municipal governments; given communities a voice in public resource
allocation; fostered citizenship through greater awareness of social responsibilities; and
strengthened communities' and municipal governments' capacity to select, set priorities for and
implement, investment decisions. Social capital has expanded through the evolution of successive
rural poverty programs and through the increasing decentralization of the mechanisms themselves
- from PAC to FUMAC and FUMAC-P. Gains in social capital at the municipal and community
level are evidenced by the significant number of municipal councils which have moved beyond
subproject decision-making to be participatory venues for municipal planning and the allocation of
non-project resources; and community associations which are leveraging social capital acquired
under the program to obtain other, previously unavailable, investment resources.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside the control of government or PRONESE was the severe drought of the
first two years. This caused generalized productivity losses and reduced success of certain
productive subprojects, e.g., manioc mills idle due to lack of raw material, as well as severe water
deficits for human consumption. The project had a major impact in alleviating this misery by
financing small dams and wells, part of an agreed strategy to use the project to best advantage in
this period. Beneficiaries were able to avoid the deaths of thousands of head of livestock and
other small animals, and the cost to the state and municipalities of water trucks was significantly
reduced.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart funding problems arose in the final six months due to the State's fiscal difficulties.
However, the Loan was fully disbursed. The Technical Unit endured two changes in leadership
within a short period in late 1996 (although technical staff remained virtually unchanged) and
underwent a restructuring, all of which slowed the project, but once these changes were
institutionalized and settled, the project made rapid progress.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The FUMAC Councils initially lacked independence and authority due to PRONESE's tendency
- 12-



to intervene in their operations during the formative period of building and establishing the
Council, but this eased off over time as the Councils reached a certain level of operational
normalcy and maturity. On the operational front, to avoid releasing funds to associations
prematurely, PRONESE successfully introduced the practice of supervisors visiting each
subproject site, where, together with the community control committee and Council
representatives, they assessed status of execution and quality, recommending or otherwise, release
of funds to the association. Finally, in 1999 PRONESE initiated an association database which
required that each association register with PRONESE and provide a set of basic information,
thereby enabling PRONESE to eliminate a number of those which did not comply on grounds of
representativity or accountability.
*The design of the RPAP and its successor the RPRP, ensures that no single bottleneck, short of counterpart funding deficits, which have not generally
been a factor, and possibly leadership/managerial turnover in TUs, is likely to cause serious damage/disruption to implementation and impact, and as
large numbers of communities and municipalities develop economically and socially through subproject investments satisfying critical needs, the TUs
become increasingly less important.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost was US$57.4 million compared to the estimated US$60.0 million due
principally to the effects of increasing the share of Bank financing from 60% to 75%, and to
progressive devaluation of the Real/US Dollar exchange rate starting in 1999. Some US$8.9
million were reallocated to PAC in January 2001. Costs varied from appraisal estimates, with
FUMAC-P US$1.8 million lower, FUMAC slightly higher and PAC falling short by about US$2.0
million; Institutional Development and Project Administration were about US$0.9 million below
and US$1.2 million above estimate, respectively. The Loan of US$36.0 million was
fully-disbursed.
Procurement: The Project methodology for providing goods, works and services is innovative
and worked well. All procurement events for the associations per se, were handled by them.
About 97.5% of all procurement events under the project were handled by the community
associations, the balance represented by PRONESE's procurement of goods, works and services
such as vehicles, auditing and information dissemination campaigns. Costs have generally been
lower under direct acquisition and have been further reduced by the installation of automated
systems for budget analysis, good subproject analysis, inspection of works under construction and
of proposed works in situ, and training in procurement. Acquisitions by communities were
subject to three price quotations. The use of standard designs and unit costs, required by the
Operational Manual, as well as providing associations with the procedures for acquisition of
goods, works and services, has simplified procurement, reduced the incidence of over-sized
subprojects and made supervision and monitoring easier.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Likely
Institutional: Analysis shows that by assigning greater responsibility and influence to local level
organizations and municipal entities, the Sergipe RPAP successfully supported decentralized
allocation of resources and social capital formation in rural areas. The potential for linking the
- 13 -



FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils to municipal planning and budgeting processes and programs,
as well as alternative credit and financial services is promising, and has in fact already started.
The likely outcome of this process is the graduation of certain communities which have
accumulated sufficient assets (from Bank-supported and other programs) and organizational
capacity to obtain mainstream financing and other services, under a strategy which includes
facilitation assistance from various sources including the Bank.*
*Such a strategy is built into the design of the new Rural Poverty Reduction Project in Sergipe, under preparation.
Physical: The involvement of beneficiaries in all stages of the investment cycle, combined with
cost-sharing requirements (10% in Sergipe) was shown to build ownership and contributed to
ensuring proper operation and maintenance of subprojects. In addition, the democratic processes
characteristic of FUMAC and FUMAC-P resulted in prudent priority-setting and selection of
subprojects by beneficiaries, increasing long-term sustainability. Only subproject proposals with
realistic, community-funded operation and maintenance plans - a project requirement set down in
the Operational Manual and for which there are performance incentives -- were approved and
financed. PRONESE and the FUMAC Councils monitored performance during project execution.
Financial: The financial sustainability of investment subprojects was confirmed by analysis and
field assessment. Studies done in 1995 (under R-NRDP) and 1997/98 (RPAP) of some 8,000
subprojects across all participating states, and during the Sergipe MTR (1 999), found that just
under 90% remained fully operational to date. Analysis of productive subprojects has repeatedly
shown that cost recovery through user fees paid by beneficiary associations adequately covers
both operation and maintenance, and replacement of the original investment long before the end
of its useful economic life.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no special transition arrangements to regular operations. Subprojects are executed,
released to the community association (which technically and legally owns the investment) and
become operational under pre-established rules/guidelines and procedures for this phase. Further,
a new Rural Poverty Reduction Project was recently negotiated with the State of Sergipe,
introducing further improvements and innovations
based on the successes and lessons of the RPRP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.
The Bank recognized that the R-NRDP represented a successful shift away from the traditional
rural development model, and that it merited follow-up, based on the lessons learned. The new
model generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and positive multiplier effects,
and had the capacity to mobilize/leverage additional funds from the communities. Well over 90%
of disbursements were reaching targeted beneficiaries, with the remainder mostly focused on their
training. The participatory approach increased community organization and empowerment,
increased transparency and demonstrated that poor rural communities could influence the
- 14 -



allocation and use of resources to alleviate poverty. Investments were generally cost-effective, of
satisfactory quality, and had positive impact on family well-being, income and employment.
The new project was based on joint evaluation of the R-NRDP by the Brazilian Government and
the Bank. Design was calibrated to the lessons of the R-NRDP and the results of initial
preparation missions, which sought to further improve design through deeper decentralization,
refined targeting, more powerful monitoring and information/evaluation, systematic cost-sharing,
introduction of standardized subproject designs and cost parameters and an improved Operational
Manual. The preparation process was marked by openness to further innovation, which has
become a hallmark of the program.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated fully Satisfactory. About 80 staff-weeks were required for supervision,
rather than the 75 estimated at appraisal. Project execution benefited from stable Bank task
management for the duration and regular supervision missions. The advantages of the Bank's
Recife Office in terms of proximity, experienced Task Managers and administrative personnel,
long-standing relationships with State authorities and knowledge of the CDD mechanisms and
their evolution in the Northeast, are clear. And by delegating supervision activities to this local
office (including procurement reviews and field visits), Bank support is calibrated to the
decentralized structure of the Northeast program. The Bank defined and addressed
implementation problems as they arose, in close cooperation with PRONESE. Supervision
missions were preceded by a detailed advisory document from Headquarters to the Task Manager
showing updated performance indicators from the MIS, highlighting any apparent issues and
including a suggested random sample of municipalities/communities for field visits. PSRs were
prepared at Headquarters on the basis of Aide Memoires, MIS data and complementary
information, essentially freeing the Recife-based Task Manager to focus on the project. The
project was correctly rated Satisfactory for Development Objectives and Implementation Progress
by all supervision missions.
Among the principal supervision issues noted by Task Managers in Aide Memoires and resolved
in collaboration with PRONESE, were the following:
* Several changes in leadership and internal restructuring in the first year resulted in
administrative procedures and transition plans which slowed down the project. PRONESE
initially stressed PAC over FUMAC but lacked the tools to do the greater supervision
required by PAC. The State's involvement in the project was greater than envisaged at
appraisal due to inadequate understanding of project guidelines, and FUMAC Councils lacked
the desired representation of civil society. PRONESE carried out a structural and functional
reorganization to integrate technical and financial aspects of the project, recruited new
managers and established three regional operations centers, each with its own team. The
Bank was satisfied and established an action plan for project activities, which was successfully
implemented.
* The concentration of investments in a limited number of municipalities as well as greater than
acceptable numbers of road paving subprojects suggested that emphasis on PAC might be
- 15-



creating political pressure on the project. Bank missions urged the expansion of FUMAC and
further refinements in targeting through the Councils, which were successfully executed;
* The prospect of severe drought in 1997 prompted an agreed strategy to focus on
infrastructure, especially water supply and small community dams, which had employment
benefits for families facing failing crops, avoided livestock and animal losses and significantly
lowered the fiscal cost to municipal governments of trucking water.
*   Higher than average state costs for rural electrification investments prompted a review of
standard designs which showed that cost reductions could be achieved through direct
implementation by the associations. Also, price checks of proposals executed by firns, and
on-site subproject verification, succeeded in further reducing costs.
Mid-term Review:
An experienced and diverse Bank/FAO mission conducted a productive Mid-term Review (MTR)
in early 1999. The mission analyzed the project based on the following: the State's own project
mid-term review evaluation (required by the Loan Agreement) comprising a Physical
Implementation Review and an Impact Evaluation, complemented by PRONESE's periodic
progress reports; a community participation assessment by a Bank/FAO consultant familiar with
the project's target population and delivery mechanisms since the R-NRDP; the mission's own
meetings with PRONESE managers and technicians and interviews with numerous beneficiaries
and local leaders during extensive field visits; and data from the project MIS. The team found the
project to be on target and in some cases, exceeding target. Overall performance was
satisfactory, adherence to the Operational Manual was good, the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) had been largely achieved and evaluation data confirmed the state's solid performance.
Principal findings/agreements of the MTR resulted in the following actions:
* The Bank formnally agreed to the State's request that the Bank's share of financing be
increased from 60% to 75%. This same decision also established a subcategory of expenses
for improved field supervision, shared 50/50 with the Borrower.
* While targeting was effective, the State increased its efforts to reach more remote,
disorganized communities, to informally graduate those with three or more investments and to
study all municipalities, ranking them in terms of poverty level. Contacts were established with
communities not yet legally organized to inform them of the project, promote their
legalization and ensure that they were represented on FUMAC Councils.
* PRONESE took steps to correct certain operational deficiencies: providing Councils with
modest administrative funds for field trips; reducing direct participation of PRONESE
technicians on Council proceedings and providing members with more "space" for
autonomous decision-making and priority-setting; increasing project information to the
Councils; reducing excessive rotation of Council members to avoid lack of continuity and its
effects on quality; giving greater focus to technical assistance to the Councils and
- 16-



communities. PRONESE was authorized to use up to 8% of community subproject cost for
direct TA requested by the Councils, and indirect TA through contracts between the TU and
FUMAC Councils permitting the latter to contract their own.
* It reinforced the principle that approval and financing of subprojects be contingent on a
proposal having clear provision for O&M, with persons able to manage, operate and maintain
the facility/service; and
* Closer analysis was initiated of the benefits expected from rural electrification subprojects in a
State with a high level of demand for them, especially in some municipalities where a power
concession firm held a monopoly, and greater effort was made to investigate alternative
energy sources (e.g., solar) for more remote communities.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Rated Satisfactory
The Rural Poverty Alleviation Program of eight projects received a Regional Performance Award
and a Social Development Award for Excellence in Project Quality in 2000. Further, a Bank
audit team cited as best practice the projects' requirement for minimum level of cost-sharing from
even the poorest communities, which they found correlated closely with cost-effective and
efficient procurement.*
*The cost-sharing requirements are standard across all RPAP projects.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was straightforward and productive owing to the support of the State
authorities, especially the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN, lead agency for the project), and
PRONESE, and broad recognition that the R-NRDP had successfully changed the way rural
development was done, with positive results in terms of cost-effectiveness, timeliness and poverty
impact on the ground.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The State Government did not have a direct, day to day role in project implementation, except
through its counterpart funding/cost sharing responsibilities, which were satisfactory throughout,
and indirectly through the role of PRONESE, a quasi- autonomous subsidiary of SEPLAN.
Good results were also the direct outcome of continuous support by state authorities including the
State Governor. The State disbursed 100% of the Loan due to very good counterpart funding
performance overall (there was some slippage in the final semester when the State's fiscal
situation weakened).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
PRONESE has a permanent, qualified team, organizational structure well-suited to implementing
Bank projects, substantial administrative and financial autonomy and credibility in the countryside.
and was exclusively dedicated to coordinating the Sergipe project. The unit supported three
- 17-



distinct multi-disciplinary technical teams, each focusing on a specific state region, and put a very
strong effort, following initial delays, into covering the state with FUMAC Councils and providing
them with training. As stated earlier, PRONESE was slow to relinquish control of the
Councils'operations, tending to retain a paternalistic role, but this changed over time. PRONESE
is credited with pioneering the "agentes de mudanqa" (change agents) recruited from the
municipalities with the assistance of the Councils and PRONESE, and who provide the Councils
with technical assistance including for mobilization, organization, and to supervise subprojects
based on a calendar of visits and a monthly work program. Some 42 agents worked with 595
associations representing about 82,000 people, organizing about 9,000 meetings. The agents
promoted social capital, emerged as interlocutors between PRONESE and the communities, and
fostered useful communications between community associations state-wide. This position was
adopted by other RPAP states, and is standard in all states under the new RPRP.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Rated Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons of this project reinforce and validate those from its predecessor, the
R-NRDP, and have influenced design of the new RPRP (awaiting Board presentation). Main
lessons are:
CDD projects, by assigning greater responsibility to local organizations and municipal
governments, can successfully support decentralized resource allocation and create social capital
in poor rural areas.
The equitable graduation of communities who have accumulated sufficient assets and
organizational capacity to access mainstream financing and other services, is expected to be (and
already is) an important product of this more integrated approach to FUMAC Council
roles/activities.
Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation to the state and
local levels including community organizations, ensures administrative efficiency and superior
results. Community-driven approaches can reduce bureaucracy and administrative obstacles, and
reinforce accountability for project performance by eliminating the "distance" between
decision-makers and beneficiaries, who have at many points in the subproject cycle, become
synonymous.
Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects
ensures that investments meet genuine community needs, leads to cost savings, and increases
community "ownership" and sustainability of investments.
Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria foster
transparency, minimize political interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project
resources reach the poorest.
Supervision, pluralistic and involving local entities closest to the communities, remains an
- 18-



indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. FUMAC Councils have the capacity to
assume greater responsibility for supervision, with appropriate training, TA and information
technology. The Bank's Recife Office remains vital for project coordination, supervision,
procurement reviews and field visits, with task managers dedicated exclusively to the Northeast
region. In this manner, Bank support meshes with the decentralized structure of the Northeast
program.
Systematic monitoring and evaluation supports project analysis, generates feedback including to
improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool. The RPAP
experience showed that further revision and strengthening of the MIS would be beneficial,
introducing real time monitoring of the full project cycle and a more comprehensive impact
evaluation component to measure income, welfare and social capital gains.
Dissemination of "best practices" can speed learning and reward innovation. Expanded
exchanges between states, municipalities and communities, and by more frequent training
seminars and workshops, support this process.
Standardized subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs, periodically reviewed,
updated and expanded, are valuable tools for simplifying subproject preparation and evaluation,
improving subproject quality, facilitating procurement and reducing cost, preventing over-design
and promoting the participation of poorer communities.
Environmentalprotection checklists are an important beneficial practice even though the small
scale of investments virtually eliminates significant environmental effects in most. Standard
subproject designs have special importance where environmental concerns are relevant, while
environmental TA and training to FUMAC Councils and community groups, delivered by
in-house environmental expertise, fosters broad awareness.
Technical assistance - of diverse type and delivery -- is an essential ingredient for projects of this
type but especially for productive subprojects to maximize impact. The appointment of "change
agents" recruited by each FUMAC Council and trained by the TU to manage and coordinate local
technical and training needs, as initiated by PRONESE under the RPAP, has tangible benefits.
More meaningful involvement of civil society (NGOs and other groups) in providing TA, is also
important.
Checks and balances, clearly-defined and well-disseminated, are essential to ensure proper
targeting and use of resources and to boost and institutionalize transparency. This project
confirmed the practical utility of rules and procedures -- including guidelines for performance
incentives and penalties, periodically reviewed and updated - set down in a Project Operational
Manual.
PAC should be minimized, particularly since the FUMAC and FUMAC-P sub-components have
proven advantages with respect to targeting, sustainability and social capital formation in poor
rural communities.
- 19 -



Productive subprojects should be subjected to rigorous selection, preparation, technical
assistance and supervision criteria and linked to a graduation strategy which facilitates beneficiary
communities' access to formal credit. Rural communities need a good understanding of the
nature and potential of productive subprojects.
Municipal Councils can play a broader role in local planning, by promoting integration
between local governments and project Municipal Councils, and providing information to
Councils on other programs and alternative sources of grant and credit financing. There is great
potential for linking FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils to local municipal planning and budgeting
processes and programs as well as alternative credit and financial services. Carefully nurtured
with the right mix of technical assistance, information and funding support, and bolstered by clear
and transparent rules of operation, this democratic forum could become one of the most valuable
and durable institutions for rural development in the Northeast.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerlimplementing agency:
The following are the Borrower's comrments on the Bank's ICR:
FRO*0ESE
Ana= w.xemar di~a =o  w  di lcwwmnubeio PWJuI at Comb. a au
hL mm BtM1 a.             4sUUto D  & b t Sol pm ft diel. VVzTMdi aJ do
'Wm ai kml ieaorDdku w. a SIWI am in  Wi fmuId no n
Ena 9,s au JUR a ise m-w8de am W   Na aWaCbdId. eI V.5
wfe I pmwSS a UOuW US "no. mmi (N  a iia e d
Pa I&pit or1,5m i, bcin1. m mm, a in iddi .omm s pebmian m *
umftflf WG iasf  a Oomdu mu
(b)~~ CWofina"nc,_ ixers
qDOU W"                          2 -
_htmFym-   MRA
(b Coinncer l o8o s_ 
gpSed*r~~~~~~~~2 -s.



N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
No log-frame Matrix was prepared for this projec t.
Project Components and Activities                 Unit           Appraisal         Actual
Est.
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects implemented                            No.                     2130            1810
- Infrastructure                                   No.                      590            1520
- Social                                           No.                      220             90
- Productive                                       No.                     1320             200
Beneficiaries
- Total                                            Families '000            66              60
- Total                                            People '000              330             300
Women as % of productive subproject beneficiaries  %                        30              30
Community associations                             No. (cumr)              1065             931
Municipalities assisted                            No. (cum)                70              71
Municipal Councils
- FUMAC                                            No. (cum)                45              57
- FUMAC-P                                          No. (cum)                 8               11
B. Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program of TA and training
- Technical Unit                                   No.                       5               5
- Municipal Councils                               No.                      254              0
No. workshops/seminars for:
- Beneficiaries                                    No.                      70               0
- Project Municipal Councils (FUMAC/FUMAC-P)       No.                       12
- FUMAC-P Councils only                            No.                       2               I
No. courses offered to:
- Beneficiary associations                         No.                      333             98
- Munic. Councils (FUMAC/FUMAC-P)                  No.                      250             21
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only                  No.                      40               0
- PCU staff                                        No.                      10               4
C. Project Admin., Monitoring, Evaluation
Standard designs                                   No.                      21              19
Annual operating plans (POA)
- FUMAC-P                                          No.                      40               15
- PCU (project POA)                               No.                        5               5
Monitoring Reports (to Bank):
- Monthly disbursement, MIS updates                No.                      60              66
- Annual , semi-annual reports                     No.                      10               10
- External audits (project accounts)               No.                       5               5
Evaluation studies
- Physical performance reviews                     No.                       4               4
- Mid-term Review                                  No.                       1               I
- Impact evaluation                               No.
(i) Baseline                                                                 I               I
(ii) Mid-term                                                                1               I
(iii) Final                                                                  I           To be done
Change Agents
- Agents                                           No.                                      46
- Municipalities attended                          No.                                       28
- Courses                                          No.                                      198
- Persons trained                                  No.                                     81,920
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Rating          Component             Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
US$million     (US$million)
S         A. Comrnunity Subprojects  55.1 of which:  52.4 of which:       95
S            FUMAC                       35.6            36.7            103
S            FUJMAC-P                     5.9             4.1             69
S            PAC                          13.6            11.6            85
S         B. Institutional Development    2.4             1.5             62
S         C. Project Administration,      1.8             3.4            188
Monitoring and Evaluation
Physical and price              0.7             0.0             --
contingencies:
60.0            57.4            96
Project Cost by Procureme nt Arrangement (US$m. equivalent
Category                    Estimate at Appraisal        Actual at Closing
NCB     Other     Total     NCB     Other    Total
Cost                       Cost
Community Subprojects
Minor Works                 _      24.8     24.8               49.9    49.9
(under US$50,000)
Goods and Materials (Under  --     24.8     24.8               2.6      2.6
US$50,000)
Minor Works                1.8      --       1.8               0.0      0.0
(Over US$50,000)
Minor Works                --      1.0       1.0               0.0      0.0
(Under US$100,000)
Goods and Materials                2.8       2.8               0.4      0.4
(Over US$50,000)
Consulting Services                2.9       2.9               1.5      1.5
Project Administration              1.9      1.9               3.0      3.0
TOTAL                              58.2     58.2               57.4    57.4
- 23 -



Project Financing by Co ponent and Source (US$ million equ valent)
Estimate at Appraisal                Actual at Closing
Total  Bank State Govt/ Benefic  Total Bank    State Govt/  Benefic.
Component         Cost        Municipal.          Cost          Municipal.
A. Community Subproj.
1. FUMAC
Subprojects             35.6   21.0     11.1       3.5    36.7   24.1      8.6        4.0
Tech Assistance/ Training  0.9  0.9     0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0        0.0
Subtotal                36.5   21.9     11.1       3.5    36.7   24.1      8.6        4.0
2. FUTMAC-P
Subprojects              5.9    3.5      1.8       0.6    4.1    2.7       1.1        0.3
Tech Assistance/Training  0.3   0.3      0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0        0.0
Subtotal                 6.2    3.8     1.8        0.6    4.1    2.7       1.1        0.3
3. PAC
Subprojects             13.6    8.0     4.2        1.4    11.7   6.9       3.8        1.0
Tech Assistance/Training  0.4   0.4     0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0        0.0
Subtotal                 14.0   8.4     4.2        1.4    11.7   6.9       3.8        1.0
B.     Institutional Devt 0.8   0.8      0.0       0.0    1.5    1.5       0.0        0.0
Tech Assistance/Training
C. Project Administration, 1.8  0.6      1.2       0.0    3.4    0.8       2.6        0.0
Monitoring, Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST     59.3   35.5     18.3       5.5    57.4   36.0      16.1       5.3
Physical Contingencies   0.3    0.2      0.1       0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies      0.4    0.3      0.1       0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0        0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST      60.0   36.0     18.5       5.5    57.4   36.0      16.1       5.3
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR did not include an economic or financial rate of return for the project. Rather, an
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the
R-NRDP for the most common types of investments. Similar benefits were expected, on a larger
scale, from the RPAP, including Sergipe. Subprojects financed by the RPAP did not differ
significantly in type from the predecessor R-NRDP. A similar analysis has therefore been done of
the program-wide (Sergipe and all seven other states of Northeast Brazil that were part of the
RPAP program) investments for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and the financial viability of
productive subprojects. An assessment is also provided specifically on the fiscal impact of the
project in Sergipe.
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects
About 77% of subproject investments program-wide under the RPAP were for infrastructure,
while social subprojects comprised less than 3 percent. Most infrastructure subprojects fell under
the rubric of core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments) which,
numerous studies demonstrate, provide benefits that justify their universal provision.* The
experience of the R-NRDP and RPAP projects has shown that the CDD approach to rural
infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the poorest can work in a cost effective manner in
the Brazilian Northeast. Several aspects of project design help to ensure delivery of the
least-cost, best alternative:
(i)    Standard technical designs (projetos padrdo) for the most common types of infrastructure
and social subprojects (including corresponding cost parameters) ensure that community
associations use least-cost models for subproject implementation; and they decrease search and
information costs for community associations by providing established patterns of initiating and
completing a subproject. Field analysis of these RPAP investments demonstrates that their
technical quality is good;
(ii)   Delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations generates
cost savings, relative to comparable quality works implemented by public sector agencies.
Contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct, competitive
contracting for all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject
and chooses the least-cost bid.
*World Bank: Public Expenditures for Poverty Alleviation in Northeast Brazil: Promoting Growth and Improving Services. Report No. 18700-BR.
December 1998.
These characteristics have enhanced subproject cost-effectiveness. Analysis of a random sample of
subprojects (including ten categories which collectively represent some 80% of subproject types
financed) found that costs for RPAP infrastructure and social investments were 30-50% cheaper
than projects of similar quality, financed by the state. Evaluation of the RPAP in Bahia, Ceara,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe examined the quality of the materials used,
overall finish and of operation of the investments. In all states surveyed, the majority of
subprojects were found to be technically satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries expressed
their satisfaction with subproject quality and regarded more than 90% of all investments as being
satisfactory overall.
- 25 -



Experience also shows that the operation and maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects
has been good, with community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain
the investments. A general evaluation study of the Northeast RPAP program, carried out in 2000,
reviewed a sample of 8,123 subprojects funded by the R-NRDP in 1995 and RPAPs in 1997/98,
finding that 7,240 of them, or 89%, were fully operational in March 2000. Furthermore, the same
study found no substantial difference in sustainability across infrastructure, productive and social
subprojects. Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and 239 social community subprojects,
89%, 87% and 88%, respectively, were fully operational at the time of the study. Bank missions
to other Northeast states confirmed this finding.
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive subprojects
analyzed (Table A). Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments
are financially sustainable (Table B). Although beneficiary associations have received a one-time
investment grant from the RPAP, this investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery
through user fees by the average beneficiary association is generally adequate to cover both O&M
and replacement of the original investment long before the end of its useful economic life.
For illustrative purposes, 12 productive subprojects representing some of the most typical
productive investments carried out under the RPAPs, were selected for financial analysis.
Activity models were constructed for them, based on field interviews with subproject managers
conducted during evaluation, supervision and project preparation missions, and consultation of
standard project designs (projetos padrao) prepared by the State Technical Units. The subprojects
analyzed are as follows:
Manioc Mill: Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment
required to process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to
and from the plant. The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The
plant operates around 100 days per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into approximately
30 tons offarinha and 4.8 tons of starch employing one person to operate the plant during those
days. Farmers are charged a users' fee of 15 percent of output. Association members normnally
pay a smaller fee than non-members.
Communal Tractor: Tractor of 75 HP, plus trailer, grain sheller, grader and other equipment,
including a garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor
works for members and non-members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport
services. It works approximately 1,700 hour per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for members
are smaller than prices charged by private tractor owners and fees charged to non-members. The
subproject employs a full-time driver/operator hired by the association.
Small Irrigation 1: Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump water to
irrigate a total of some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the
introduction of a new technical package and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiabo (two
- 26 -



high-priced Brazilian vegetables with good local markets), which replace the existing traditional
cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very good return.
Small Irrigation 2: Sprinkler irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land
with water pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the
irrigated land is used for traditional subsistence crops (corn and beans), although a cash crop
(watermelon) is planted on one-third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.
Goat Production. Production of goats by a group of about 30 farmers, with an investment
consisting of 120 breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are
constructed and 85 ha of improved pastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or
self-consumption) of incremental animals and the sale (or self-consumption) of milk.
Animal Feed Production Equipment: Grinding machine and complementary equipment to
produce animal feed from crop residuals, together with a small structure to shelter the machine.
Farmers pay a small amount (R$ 1.50) per hour to use the machine. From these payments,
electricity and maintenance costs are covered and a small fund is formed. The machine works
approximately six months per year. Raw materials and labor to operate the machine are supplied
by users. The organization and supervision of machine use is freely supplied by association
leaders.
Honey Production: Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture
and honey processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous
apiculture experience. Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8
sites, are maintained by association members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kg of
honey which is sold wholesale.
Local Bakery. Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking
facilities to produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kg of bread per day.
Employs a master baker and two full-time workers. Bread is sold locally in the surrounding
communities.
Fish Farm: Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2 each, with a capacity for 8,500 Tilapia fish each. Ponds
are rotated, with 4 ponds being continuously used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond
in a year, with a total output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One
person is employed half-time to feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman.
Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish.
Cashew Processing Plant: Middle-size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200
tons of cashew nuts are processed annually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew almonds,
which are then sold wholesale. Plant operates for ten months of the year, employing around 6
operators. Cashew nuts are bought from surrounding farmers serving some 150 farmers with 1 to
5 ha of cashew trees each.
- 27 -



Jam Production Plant: Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other
confectionery products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruit and
other inputs are bought by the plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to
retailers. Employs a plant manager and three permanent workers.
Small Dairy Plant: Middle-size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurization kit, cooling
chamber and other facilities to pasteurize milk, with a capacity of 1,200 liters per day. The plant is
supplied by around 400 cows with an average daily output of 3 liters per cow belonging to some
60 dairy farmers within a radius of 6 km. Employs a plant manager and 4 permanent workers.
The results of the financial analysis are summarized in Table A.
Table A. Results of Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Type of Activity       Investment   IRR      NPV        Net       Years to
(R$)      (%)     (at 10%)   Annual     Recover
Income    the Capital
(R$)      Invested
Manioc Mill                    18,450      15.8    5,377      3,970       5.6
Communal Tractor                39,752     37.6    35,141     18,075       2.4
Small Irrigation 1              44,054     >50     327,366    90,781       0,9
Small Irrigation 2              28,311     28.1    23,573     15,238       3.3
Goat Production                 43,346      16.5    16,925    12,180       5.8
Feed Production Equipment       6,730       15.4    1,831      1,149       5.9
Honey Production                26,102     16.8     9,112      7,252       5.5
Local Bakery                    43,352     35.0     56,868    29,575       2.8
Fish Farm                       46,104      15.6    13,739    13,162       5.6
Cashew Processing Plant         64,964      >50    288,790    72,195       1.1
Jam Production Plant            41,123     41.7    69,062     35,008       2.4
Small Dairy Plant              62,583     19.7    30,223     34,591       4.7
The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$7,000 to R$65,000, which is typical
for RPAP productive investments. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, some
of them being very high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and
less than 3.5 in half of the cases. The net incremental annual income or value-added generated by
the subprojects (at full development) ranges from R$1,149 for the feed preparation equipment to
R$90,78 1 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with an average value of around
R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$ 39,000.* The IRRs of the subprojects
compare favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the Brazilian Government, which is of the
order of 11 to 12 percent.** The IRRs also compare favorably with the interest rates that would
have to be paid in concessional rural credit programs, like those of the Banco do Nordeste and
Banco do Brasil. Only two subprojects --the cashew processing plant and one of the irrigation
subprojects -- would be able to pay the high interest rates charged by commercial banks for term
lending.
* Simple averages
** Measured by the difference between the SELIC rate and inflation rate.
- 28 -



Three categories of projects can be identified in the above illustrative sample:
(a) Communal processing equipment or livestock activities which are simple to operate and
well-known to farmers, meet community-wide needs, and directly benefit a majority of families in
the community. The manioc mill, communal tractor, feed production equipment and goat
production subprojects fall into this category. The results summarized in Table A illustrate that
these types of investments can be profitable. Their financial retums, however, are not high
because benefits are passed on to farmers in the form of moderate user fees or because the activity
in question is intrinsically not very profitable as in the case of small-scale goat rearing. These
subprojects have the advantage of building on activities familiar to farmers, and have therefore
little training requirements and simple management needs. They also have low marketing
requirements since the community itself is the market for the service, and the outputs produced
with the help of the service normally have regular marketing channels or are self-consumed;
(b) Subprojects promoting off- or on-farm productive activities which generate full time
employment and considerable income for a particular group of farmers in the community. The
small irrigation subprojects and the honey production, jam production, fish farm and bakery
subprojects belong in this category. New activities producing a final consumption good to be sold
in markets outside the community, exemplified by the honey production, fish farming and jam
production subprojects, can be profitable and offer a source of income and employment to some
members of the community; however, these subprojects tend to be demanding in terrns of
marketing and managerial skills.* These subprojects are normally part of industries where the
entry cost is low and competition high, leaving small operating margins. The lack of working
capital and the difficulty to establish a brand name to differentiate the product and place it in the
best-paying markets are two common constraints;
* Other popular subprojects in this category are clothes-making and the production of various artisanal goods such as embroidenes.
Local bakeries, which are popular subprojects in some states, have few training and marketing
requirements, and are similar to cassava mills or communal tractors to the extent that they cater to
local need and therefore have a local market, although in this case the market is for a final good
rather than a productive service, but they only offer employment and income to a reduced number
of community members. The irrigation subprojects illustrate well that, whenever possible,
irrigation together with the introduction of cash crops and an improved technical package is a
profitable and cost-effective way of increasing income and employment in the semi-arid areas of
the Brazilian Northeast, and can be successfully operated by local farmers on a very small scale.
The contrast between the very high returns to investment of the first subproject, where new cash
crops and technology were introduced alongside irrigation, and the moderately high ones of the
second subproject, highlights the impact of profiting from the availability of irrigation water by
introducing wider changes in the cropping system;
(iii) Processing plants requiring comparatively higher capital investment, which operate on a scale
bigger than the communal equipment included in the first category, benefiting also farmers outside
the local community and hence with impact at a more regional level. The dairy and cashew
processing plants exemplify this type of subproject.
- 29 -



To examine the financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out of the
illustrative activity models. Three scenarios were considered. In the first, production was
assumed to be 20% below the base case, because of, say, marketing problems. A 20% percent
decrease in output caused a 20% decrease in revenue, but this was, to some extent, matched by a
reduction in the use of inputs and hence in variable costs. In the second scenario, the price
decreased 20% and revenue also decreased by the same proportion without any compensating
element. Finally, in the third scenario, an increase of 20% in the price of variable costs was
assumed. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in Table B.
Table B: Results of the S   ensitivity An alysis
Type of Subproject         Base Case    Scenario 1    Scenario 2   Scenario 3
- 200%o output  - 20% price  + 20% costs
Manioc Mill
IRR (%)                       15.8         11.5          10.1        14.4
NPV (R$)                     5,377        1,385           132        4,124
Communal Tractor
IRR(%)                       37.6          17.2          < 0          16.8
NPV (R$)                    35,141        10,836       -23,602       10,221
Small Irrigation 1
IRR (%)                       >50          >50           39.4         >50
NPV (R$)                    327,366      163,375        77,015      154,646
Small Irrigation 2
IRR (%)                      28.1          7.4            4.6         13.0
NPV (R$)                    23,573        -2,965        -6,057       3,546
Goat Production
IR (%)                        16.5         12.8          11.5         15.2
NPV (R$)                     16,925       7,097          3,847       13,395
Feed Production Equipment
IRR (%)                       15.4         11.2          10.2         14.4
NPV (R$)                     1,831         397            62         1,496
Honey Production
IRR (%)                       16.8         10.0           7.2         11.6
NPV (R$)                     9.112         42           -3,635       2,162
Local Bakery
IRR (%)                      35.0          20.1           < 0         15.8
NPV (R$)                     56,868       22,451        -21,559      12,859
Fish Farm
IRR (%)                       15.6         9.3            < 0         < 0
NPV (R$)                     13,739       -1,732        -39,886     -26,024
Cashew Processing Plant
IRR (%)                       >50         > 50           48.3         >50
NPV (R$)                    288,790      210,642        132,561     201,015
Jam Production Plant
IRR(%)                       41.7          24.0           < 0         12.7
NPV (R$)                     69,062       29,690        -33,720      5,652
Small Dairy Plant
IRR(%)                        19.7         2.0          n.d. (*)     n.d. (*)
NPV (R$)                     30,223      -23,493        -138,697    -84,981
(*) IRR not defined; net benefits are negative all years.
- 30 -



Some subprojects are more sensitive than others to changing market conditions. In general,
subprojects which are highly dependent on purchased inputs, like the communal tractor, the
bakery, the fish farm, the jam production plant and the dairy plant, are more sensitive to
deteriorating market conditions than those with minor dependence on purchased inputs, e.g., the
manioc mill, goat production, feed preparation equipment and hQney production subprojects. In
all cases, the worst scenario is that of a decrease in prices (scenario 2). The second worst scenario
depends on the type of subproject; for subprojects highly dependent on purchased inputs, it is the
increase in variable production costs (scenario 3), while for those with little dependence on
purchased inputs, it is the fall in output (scenario 1).
To complete the financial analysis of productive subprojects, a weighted average of the IRRs of
the activity models included in the sample was calculated. The shares of each of the twelve types
of illustrative models (which were taken to represent other, similar ones) in the total amount
invested in community subprojects in the RPAP program until the end of April 2001 were used as
weights.* The resulting average IRR is 30.2%. This figure gives an indication of the overall
profitability of the productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP.
* IRR of the "Small Irrigation 1" and "Cashew Processing Plant" subprojects, which is higher than 50%, was taken to be equal to 50% in the
computation of the weighted average.
Aggregate Impact of the RPAP Program on Employment, Income and Cultivated Area
The July 2000 impact evaluation study carried out of the RPAPs in eight Northeastern States
including Bahia, provided an estimate of the aggregate impact on employment, income and
cultivated area of the infrastructure, productive and social subprojects included in the program.
The study, based on a sample from the most representative types of subprojects in each of the
States, with an error of less than 20%, provides summary figures for incremental jobs created,
incremental income generated and incremental number of hectares cultivated per unit invested in
productive subprojects.
Total investment in conununity subprojects:                    US$362.0 rnillion
Incremental employment created:                                      40,000 jobs
Incremental net annual income/savings generated:                 US$80.0 million
Incremental cropped area:                                         40,000 hectares
These estimates are subject to several caveats, including that the sample's level of significance is
not large, and that the estimates reflect both direct impact of the investments on employment,
income and cultivated land as well as some indirect impacts, e.g., expansion of cultivated area,
employment and income derived from the introduction of a tractor or a casa defarinha in a
certain community. The above figures should thus be viewed as indicative of the magnitude of
benefits involved. Finally Table D shows a variety of socio-economic benefits for main subproject
types implemented under the RPAP.
- 31 -



Table C: Socio-Economic Benefits of Subprojects by Main Subproject Type
Project Type        Total No. of  No. of       Cost per   Net No. of  Net Annual   Incremental  Economic
Subprojects  Benefic.     Subproject  Jobs Created  Incremental  Crop Area  Internal Rate
Completed*  Families per   (US$)         per     Income/saving  Cultivated  of Retum
Subproject               Subproject**   s per         per         (%)
Subproject   Subproject
(US$)      (hectares)
Infrastructure:
Rural water supply          4,025         71         30,149         -         12,369        1.4
Rural electrification       4,080         49         22,400         -          1,942        1.6
Small bridges                538          139       26,350          -          1,040        2.3
Community telephones         435          140        22,944         -          422           0
Productive:
Manioc mills                 412          68         18,451        10.8       17,148        16.3        >30
Community Tractors           573          95         30,870       29.3        28,137       22.6         >30
Small-scale livestock        110          40         16,354        2.5        6,214         2.8         >30
Small-scale irigation        146          36         25,158       25.4        23,800       37.9         >30
Social:
Road paving/rehab.           675          82         31,930         -          242          1.7           -
Sanitation systems           171          72        29,727          -           0            0 O
Cost Effectiveness
Project Type                      Total               Total   Investment     Economic
Investment per      per Job Created        Benefit-Cost Ratio
Beneficiary         (US$)
Family (US$)
Infrastructure:
Rural water supply                        425
Rural electrification                     457
Small bridges                             190                   __
Community telephones                      164                    _
Productive:
Manioc mills                              271                  1,708                  >2.0
Community tractors                        325                  1,054                  >2.0
Small-scale livestock                     409                 6,542                   >2.0
Small-scale irrigation                    699                  990                    >2.0
Social:                                                          _
Road paving/rehab.                        389                    __
Sanitation systems                       413
* As of March 2000. By January 2001, some 19,000 subprojects had been completed under the RPAP. Subproject distribution did not
vary greatly.
** Many jobs created by the infrastructure and social subprojects come from additional economic activities made possible by the
investments, butnot directly involved with theproject after its construction/establishment.
*** The incremental crop areas associated with infrastructure and social subprojects come from the cultivation of additional areas, made
possible by the projects.
*   Obtained by using a real rate of 10% for the opportunity cost of capital.
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/95                       2    Econornist
2     Agric. Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/95                       3    Economaist
2    Agric. Economist
1   Civil Engineer
2   Agric. Specialist
1   MIS Specialist
Supervision
06/95                   Update                                    HS            HS
06/96                   Update     Hi HS                                        HS
11/96                        1  Agric. Economist                   S            S
06/97                   Update  --                                 S             S
07/97                        2   Agric. Economnist                 S             S
11/97                        1   Agric. Economnist                 S            S
03/98                        2   Agric. Economist                  S             S
10/98                        1  Agric. Economist                   S            S
03/99 (MTR1spn)             2    Agric. Economist                  S             S
1   Sociologist
3   Agric. Specialist
1   Economist
10/99                        1  Agric. Economist                   S            S
05/00                        1   Agric. Economist                  S             S
12/00                        1  Agric. Economist                   S            S
I   CDD Specialist
06/01                        1   Agric. Economnist                 S             S
2   Agric. Specialist
ICR
08/01                       1    Economnist                        S             S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              17.1                        31.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                    14.1                       22.1
Supervision                             80.0                       174.7
ICR                                      3.0                         6.0
Total                                  114.2                       234.2
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                      O H   OSUOM      ON   * NA
El Physical                             *H    OSUOM      ON   ONA
E Financial                             O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Ol Institutional Development            O H   0 SU O M   O N  0 NA
El Environmental                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               OH   *SUOM       ON   O NA
El Gender                         O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
E Other (Please specify)          O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
El Private sector development           0 H   0 SU O M   0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management             0 H   0 SU O M   0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                OH    0 SU O M   O N  * NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
O Lending                                          OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS      OU    OHU
El Overall                                         OHS OS      O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS Os      OU    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS O S    O U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance               O HS Os     O U   0 HU
El Overall                                         OHS OS      O U   O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
State of Sergipe MTR Evaluation (Physical Implementation Review and Impact Evaluation).
Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government
Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil, (Draft), van Zyl, Sonn and Costa, July 2000.
Assessment of Community Participation, A. Costa, Bank/FAO, 1999.
Mid-term Review of RPAP in Sergipe, 1999.
Bank Supervision Reports.
Project Audit Reports.
Periodic progress reports.
- 36 -



- 37-



