Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1968-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MEXICO
May 1, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           = Mex$23
Mex$1          =  US$0.0435
Mex$1 million  =  US$43,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
2
1 hectare (ha)                   =  10,000 m   =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2          =  0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km )         =  0.39 sq. miles  =  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                  =  2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                      =  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg  =  I metric ton        =  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ANAGSA            -   National Crop and Livestock Insurance Agency
ANDSA             -   National Warehouse Agency
BANAGRO           -   National Agricultural Bank
BANCO AGRICOLA    -   National Agricultural Credit Bank
BANCO EJIDAL      -   National Ejido Credit Bank
BANXICO           -   Bank of Mexico
BNCR              -   National Rural Credit Bank
CIMMYT            -   International Center for Maize and Wheat Research
CONAFRUT          -   National Fruit Development Corporation
CONASUPO          -   National Marketing Corporation
CNG               -   National Livestock Producers Federation
FEFA              -   Special Agricultural Credit Trust Fund
FEGA              -   Technical Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund
FINASA            -   National Sugar Finance Agency
FIRA              -   Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
FONAFE            -   National Ejido Development Fund
IDB               -   Interamerican Development Bank
FONDO             -   Trust Fund for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit
IMPA              -   National Sugarcane Research Institute
INIA              -   National Crop Research Institute
INIP              -   National Livestock Research Institute
LIP                -   Low Income Producer
NAFINSA            -   National Financiera
PIDER             -   Investment Program for Rural Development
PRONDAAT          -   National Program for Agricultural Development in
Rainfed Areas
SARH              -   Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
SRA               -   Ministry of Agrarian Reform
UNPASA            -   Sugar Producers' Organization
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRbJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Agriculture in the Economy .......................                I
B.   Rural Incomes, Employment and Land Distribution  ..               1
C.   Output Trends ..... 0.............. ............................  3
D.   Agricultural Research and Extension ..          ............      6
E.   Agricultural Development Strategies ..............                7
II.   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A.   Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico  ...               9
B.   Public Sector Agricultural Banks .....            ............   11
C .   Private Banks . . ................. ..........  ........... ....   12
D.   Performance Under Previous Agricultural Credit
Projects          .......................................     12
III.   THE PROJECT
A.   Introduction ...... .0...................         ** ..................  15
B.   Brief Description .o,              ........... .. ...........    15
C.   Detailed Features ........ .. .. . . . . . . .  ........ ......... .  16
D.   Project Cost  ........ ................ . . .. ... . . .. . .......  23
E.   Financing ...... .... . .. .... .  .................  .....  .......  25
F.   Procurement .........................................            25
G.   Disbursement .....          ................................     27
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Project Administration *..........................               28
B.   Sublending Policies and Procedures ....            ...........   29
C.   Accounts and Auditing ...        ................ .........      31
D.   Monitoring and Reporting ....................                    32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico during November 1977. The mission comprised D. Fitchett, J. Intrator,
C. Moret, A. Duersten, V. Freeman and C. Wolffelt of the Bank and D. Stoops
and C. Percival, consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.  SPECIFICATIONS OF ENTERPRISE MODELS
A.  Livestock Development Models ..      ..................    33
B.  Crop Development Models ..........................    33
VI.  PROJECT PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND MARKETING
A.  Production     .................... ...................  36
B.  Demand and Marketing ................... . o.   .    37
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Farming/Ranching Operations ........ ..............    39
B.  Project Cash Flow ................................    39
VIII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.  'Economic Benefits ...... ................. .........  41
B.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis .    41
C.  Project  Risks   ....................................  44
D.  Environmental Impact ................... .......    44
IX.  SUMMARY OF ASSURANCES OBTAINED AT NEGOTIATIONS ........   46
TEXT TABLES
Table 3.1   Number of Subloans, Average Investment and
Average Subloan      .............................    22
Table 3.2  Total Project Costs .24
Table 3.3  Project Financing .26
Table 5.1   Production Data for Livestock Models ..34
Table 5.2   Projected Development of Yields .35
Table 7.1   Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates
of Return    .......40
Table 7.2   Projected FEFA Receipts and Disbursements         42
Table 8.1   Economic Rate of Return Calculations .45



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Supporting Tables
T.1  Principal Indicators of FIRA's Operations, 1971-1976 ......  49
T.2  Credits for Agriculture through the Banking System and
FIRA Participation .     .............. .   50
T.3  Medium- and Long-Term Loans Rediscounted by FIRA,
1971-1978    ........................ .......................  51
T.4  Comparative Statement of FEFA's Assets and Liabilities,
1970-1977 ...............................................    52
T.5  Comparative Statement of FEFA's Income and Expenditures,
1970-1977    ........................ .......................  53
T.6  Consolidated Comparative Statement of FONDO/FEFA's
Income and Expenditures, 1970-1977 ........... ...........   54
T.7  Stabled Dairy Production:  Cash Flow Projection ...........    55
T.8  Grazing Dairy Production:  Cash Flow Projection ...........   56
T.9  Dual Purpose Livestock:  Cash Flow Projection .............   57
T.10 Beef Production: Cash Flow Projection ....................    58
T.11 Pig Production:  Cash Flow Projection .....................    59
T.12 Rainfed Annual Crops:  Cash Flow Projection ...............    60
T.13 Tubewell Irrigated Annual Crops:
Cash  Flow  Projection  ....... ...................................  61
T.14 Gravity Irrigated Annual Crops:  Cash Flow Projection .....  62
T.15 Walnut Grove:  Cash Flow Projection ........... .............    63
T.16 Cocoa Orchard Rehabilitation:  Cash Flow Projection .......  64
T.17  Sugarcane Production:  Cash Flow Projection ..  .............   65
T.18 Cattle Slaughtering Plant:  Cash Flow Projection ..........   66
T.19 Milk Processing Plant:  Cash Flow Projection ..............    67
T.20 Feed Mill:  Cash Flow Projection .... .....    68
T.21 Fruit Packing Plant:  Cash Flow Projection ................   69
T.22 Logging and Sawmill Operation:  Cash Flow Projection ......  70
T.23 FIRA Training Program, 1978-80 ............ .. ..............   71
T.24 FIRA Demonstration Centers Program, 1973-76 ............. ..    72
T.25 FIRA Demonstration Centers Investment Program, 1978-80 ....  73
T.26 Weights and Prices for Livestock Development Models   .......   74
T.27 Prices Used in Economic and Financial Analysis ............    75
Annex 2. Banco Nacional de Credito Rural .......................   76
Annex 3:  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File..    81
MAP
IBRD 11789R - Distribution of FIRA Offices by Region






MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
A. Agriculture in the Economy
Background
1.01      Agriculture played an active role in Mexico's economic development
during the 1945-65 period, growing at a rate of more than 5% per annum;
however, since the mid-1960s, the rate has slowed considerably. This reduc-
tion is largely due to the poor performance of the crop subsector; livestock
production growth, which accounts for about one-third of sectorial output, has
been relatively stable around 4% p.a. The sector's share of GDP fell from 16%
in 1960 to 9% in 1976. As a consequence of the reduced agricultural produc-
tion growth rates, the agricultural foreign trade balance deteriorated during
the 1970s, although it recovered sharply in 1976 due mainly to the jump in
coffee prices. Since the early 1970s, large imports of maize, wheat and
powdered milk have been necessary to offset the shortfalls in domestic pro-
duction, and the domestic supply of sorghum and oil seeds also had to be
augmented. On the export side, unfavorable world market conditions caused a
decline in the export of cotton, tomatoes and beef cattle, while sugar exports
fell to zero in 1976 due to the failure of output growth to match the increase
in internal demand.
Regional Production Patterns
1.02      The wide range of latitudes and altitudes in Mexico results in
much climatic and regional variability. Moving North to South, the North
is a semi-arid region, in which beef breeding herds produce weaner calves
under range pasture conditions. Irrigation is highly developed in Sonora,
Sinaloa, and Chihuahua, where cash crops such as wheat, cotton, beans, fruit,
vegetables, maize and alfalfa for milk production are grown. Across the
Central Altiplano in the states of Jalisco and Michoacan, maize, beans,
sorghum and other food crops predominate, as well as milk production, owing
to the proximity to the Mexico City and Guadalajara markets. In the states
of Mexico, Puebla and Hidalgo, the Altiplano is temperate and dry, producing
rainfed maize and beans, while small irrigated areas yield fruit and horticul-
tural crops. Along the Gulf Coast, sugarcane, maize and sorghum predominate.
The area devoted to cotton has declined because of pest problems, and sorghum
has largely replaced the crop. To the south in Tabasco, beef, cocoa, bananas,
and sugarcane constitute the principal crops. In the neighboring Chiapas
region, maize, beans, sesame, and cotton predominate.
B.  Rural Incomes, Employment and Land Distribution
1.03      Of the total population of 62 million in 1976, about 23 million
were classified as rural. The national labor force in 1976 was about 17



-2-
million of which about 40% were engaged in agriculture, forestry and fishing
activities. The rural population is made up of three distinct groups: ejido
families, 1/ private farmers and landless families; the total of about 3 mil-
lion is divided approximately equally among the three. However, the landless
group is increasing due to the pressure of a 2% annual rural population growth
rate on the limited supply of farm land. Preliminary data for 1975 indicate
that about one-third of the rural families had an income of less than US$670.
Rural income distribution is skewed, following the pattern of land holdings.
It is estimated that in 1970, about 6% of all farms accounted for about 85%
of sales of farm products while 91% of the farms contributed only 5% of the
total. The upper 10% of the rural population accounts for about half of the
rural income, while half the population has about one-sixth of the income.
1.04      Unemployment and underemployment are major problems in rural
Mexico. Since 1950, Mexico has experienced remarkable demographic growth
with increases in both life expectancy and fertility. Consequently, the
population grew by about 3.4% during the 1960s and 3.3% in the early 1970s.
From 1965 to 1970, agricultural employment declined at about 0.5% per year,
and, although specific data are not yet available, it appears to have con-
tinued to decline through 1974, thereby compounding problems of absorption
of a growing labor force in the rural sector and accelerating migration
into urban areas.
1.05      The tap root of the Mexican land reform program traces back to
the 1910 revolution; land reform has been implemented in fits and starts
over the intervening years and a wide variety of assessments as to its polit-
ical, economic and social impacts and benefits are available. Some 16,000
of the approximately 20,000 ejidos have by now been granted definite titles
of usufruct. The Ministry of Agrarian Reform (SRA) is implementing a plan to
ensure beneficiaries of land reform the supplementary services, supplies, and
credit necessary to bring the redistributed land to full productive use. The
Ministry is expected to provide technical, promotional and organizational
assistance, while credit and inputs will come from the public agricultural
banks and marketing support from the National Marketing Corporation (CONASUPO).
About 2,500 ejidos are already involved in this integrated promotional effort.
1.06      In the private farming sector, the Agrarian Reform Law establishes
the maximum size of individual holdings for ranches as the area required to
carry 500 animal units and forbids growing of commercial crops on ranchland.
However, the Government has attempted to encourage output by granting 320,000
certificates of exemption for crop production and 1,300 certificates for
livestock, covering 8.2 million ha. The possession of these legal titles is
intended to stimulate investment in improving carrying capacity and develop-
ing crop production in potentially productive land by ensuring that farmers
would not suffer a reduction in land holdings due to such capital improvements.
1/   The term "ejido" is derived from the Spanish equivalent of the village
"common." In present Mexican law, the ejido is basically a group of
families with joint tenure rights to land. The members of the ejido are
called ejidatarios.



This process is being expedited, but until a more permanent legal exemption is
instituted, tenure uncertainty may act as a disincentive to increasing produc-
tivity on private farms and ranches.
C. Output Trends
Crop Production
1.07      Of Mexico's total area of nearly 200 million ha, about 35 million
ha are considered potential crop land. Until 1940, the total cultivated
area was about 7.5 million ha, located mainly in the highlands 1/ surrounding
Mexico City and Guadalajara. During the 1945-55 period, substantial increases
in both area and yields determined the rapid growth of sectorial output. The
aggregate (irrigated and rainfed) cropped area in the then five major crops
(maize, beans, wheat, cotton and sugarcane) increased from 7.2 million ha in
1945 to 9.7 million ha in 1955, i.e., 3.1% per annum. Yields per hectare also
tended to increase, appreciably for cotton, wheat and beans (at annual rates
of 5%, 4.5% and 4%), less for maize (2%) and negligibly for sugarcane. During
the 1955-65 period total crop production grew at an annual rate of 4.4%, 40%
lower than the preceding period.
1.08      The gross value of crop production has grown moderately -- about
11.5% -- during the 1965-74 period, in spite of a contraction in cropped area
of 3.2%, implying a yield increase on the order of 15% during the decade.
The major area reduction occurred for grains; both maize and beans decreased
appreciably and the expansion of sorghum -- while significant -- did not
offset this trend.  Oilseeds cultivation rose rapidly, almost doubling,
particularly due to increases in soybean and safflower.  The area in indus-
trial crops, cotton and sugarcane fell by 16%, due to the reduction in cotton
acreage.
1.09      Maize and wheat are the major cereals in the Mexican diet, while
sorghum is utilized as an animal feed.  Maize is the most widely cultivated
crop, with some 8 million ha accounting for approximately half of the country's
cropped area, but output has been disappointing. Thus, the Government has
moved to increase support prices for it and other staple grains to encourage
production. Given the increased efforts by Government, and potential for area
and yield expansion, an annual overall growth rate for crop output of 4% to 5%
from 1977-82 would appear feasible. However, it is probable that expansion of
maize, beans, and sugar production will still be less than the expected
population growth rate of 3.3%; thus, deficits are anticipated through 1980.
1/   These highlands comprise the Central Plateau or Altiplano incorporating
the states of Queretaro, Guanajuato, Hidalgo, Mexico, Morelos, Tlaxcala,
Puebla and the Federal District.



-4-
Livestock Production
1.10      Beef.  Mexico has three major beef cattle producing regions:
(a) the arid and semi-arid northern rangelands; (b) the wet tropics along
the Gulf Coast; and (c) the dry tropics along the Pacific Coast. The first
is used mainly for extensive cattle breeding, with stocking rates ranging
from 5 to 50 ha per animal unit and income derived mainly from the sale
of feeder cattle and cull cows. The area supplies the US market with feeder
r.-Ltle (male weaners) and boneless beef. The dry and wet tropics produce
beef almost exclusively for domestic consumption, with the wet tropics devel-
oping into a major area for cattle fattening and the main source of supply for
the Federal District. Because of the high initial fertility of the soil,
abundant and well distributed rainfall and the high quality of the pastures,
stocking rates in the wet tropics are one to three animal units per ha.
1.11      The national cattle population grew at a rate of 2.6% between 1965
and 1975 while carcass meat output increased from 2% p.a. between 1960 and
1965 to 5.2% p.a. between 1970 and 1975. Average carcass weights rose from
152 kg in 1960 to 166 kg in 1976. Over this same period, annual beef consump-
tion varied from about 9 kg to 11.5 kg per capita, depending upon exports of
feeder cattle and boneless meat exports.
1.12      The volume of annual exports of live cattle and boneless beef to
the United States has fluctuated, depending upon the export price and the
export quota. The latter is regulated by the Government and the National
Livestock Confederation (CNG) in order to ensure adequate beef supplies for
the Mexican domestic market.  The volume of exports of feeder cattle depends
on the difference in beef prices between the United States and Mexico.
Exports of feeder cattle, which averaged around 700,000 head annually between
1966 to 1975, peaked at nearly I million head in 1972, but the depressed
market prospects for Mexican beef in the United States in 1974 resulted in
a drastic decline to around 200,000 head in 1975.  Exports for 1976 climbed
to 500,000 head and, with buoyant market prices, exports for the 1977-82
period are expected to average around 600,000 head per year. Boneless beef
exports should average around 27,000 m tons annually.
1.13      Milk Production.  Official statistics for 1975 estimate the national
dairy herd at 10 million head. Total milk production in 1975 was estimated at
4.8 million tons produced by about 4.2 million cows, averaging 1,150 liters
per cow. Nearly 80% of total production is from about 2 million dairy cows
located predominately in the central plateau temperate zone. Here, some 0.6
million Holstein cows, mainly in commercial herds, produce 40% of total
production. Another 40% of national production in this zone is from a
very large number of small producers owning about 1.4 million cows, while
the remaining 20% is produced by around 2.2 million dual purpose cows located
in the tropics. Domestic production provides about 85% to 90% of the national
consumption while the balance is imported.
1.14      Traditionally, commercial herds feed on irrigated alfalfa in the
spring and summer and on forage oats and corn silage, generally supplemented
with high levels of concentrate, in the autumn and winter. Although average



production under the system is reasonable at 11 liters/head/day, the cost of
production is high because of the concentrates. However, studies by tech-
nicians of the SARH (Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources) and FIRA
(Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico) in both temperate and tropical
areas have shown that costs can be lowered by as much as 30% by grazing herds
on permanent legume-based pastures. Further, FIRA has financed a number of
pilot ejidos to demonstrate the financial viability of using the new tech-
nology, but there remains ample scope for more applied research to determine
appropriate pasture mixtures, fertilizer and water requirements, and grazing
management methods.
1.15      Pork.  The slaughter of pigs grew at an annual rate of 10% during
1970-75, to 6.5 million in 1975. About one-half of the Mexican swine popu-
lation is located in the central plateau region, where commercial swine
production has been concentrated because of the temperate climate and
proximity to the main consumption centers. In recent years, production
has spread to the northern states as a result of increased availability of
lower cost sorghum and is also increasing in Yucatan in response to a high
consumer demand. Large commercial producers usually combine breeding and
fattening operations under feedlot management. Hog producers sell either
directly to small bacon and canning plants or to dealers who are authorized to
slaughter hogs at the municipal slaughterhouses and then sell to butcher shops
and supermarkets. There is, however, a need for specialized slaughterhouses
for hogs in order to improve hygiene standards and to utilize byproducts
more effectively.
1.16      Pork consumption was about 9.6 kg per capita in 1975 with the domes-
tic market normally absorbing all production, about 90% in the form of fresh
meat.  The balance is used for cold meats and by industry.  Only when the
internal price declines is there some export of pork carcasses. Hog prices
have increased steadily since 1970 under the influence of rising grain prices.
The average producer price for pork from 1970 to 1973 was 13% less than for
beef, but since then the prices have tended to equalize. Expansion into new
areas in the northeast and northwest for sorghum production and the growing
demand for pork indicate good prospects for increasing production.
Agroindustries
1.17      The food processing industry (excluding beverages) in Mexico
employed 337,800 persons and had a total output value of Mex$86,600 million
in 1975 -- 18% of the total value of industrial production. The growth
of output has tended to match that of the industrial sector overall in recent
years. During the past 15 years, relatively rapid expansion has taken place
for meat plants, grain mills and silos, fruit and vegetable packing, storage
and processing plants and vegetable oil processing. The Government has
provided numerous financial incentives and financial support for both private
operators and groups of private or ejido producers to initiate and/or expand
these activities. These enterprises have been important in providing addi-
tional employment opportunities in smaller cities and rural areas. In view of
growing domestic demand for processed agricultural products and Mexico's
access to the growing United States market, there should be continued strong
growth of agroindustrial activities.



-6-
D. Agricultural Research and Extension
Research
1.18      Despite the international reputation for the successful breeding
of hybrid maize and wheat strains, most of the benefit of agricultural
research in Mexico has been taken by those private farmers and ejidatarios
with irrigated land. Constrained by lack of funds and staff, the Mexican
agricultural research system has, until relatively recently, had little
impact on the rainfed cultivation activities typically carried out by low-
income Mexican farmers. The National Institute for Crop Research (INIA) has
received substantially increased financial allocations in recent years, rising
from Mex$44 million in 1970 to Mex$283 million in 1975 and Mex$350 million in
1977, and thus has been able to expand the research staff and improve its
caliber. Functions have been delegated to regional centers so as to make the
work more region-specific and problem-oriented, and changes have been made
in the distribution of its budget. For example, larger allocations have
been made for research in forage and legumes to overcome a major technological
bottleneck in Mexico's livestock development. While significant improvements
have been made, there is still need to further upgrade academic standards
of staff, strengthen the research effort in rainfed areas, integrate individual
research findings into technological packages for specific ecological regions,
and improve coordination with the extension service.
1.19      Livestock research, headed by the National Institute of Livestock
Research (INIP), I/ is still concentrated on genetics, veterinary medicine,
preventive vaccine, and tick control, but greater emphasis is now being placed
on animal-production-management problems, including pasture management and
stocking rate experiments, both of which are crucial for Mexico's livestock
industry. Still there is need for more work on the production potential of
sown and natural pastures under alternative fertilizer regimes and grazing
techniques. Also, it is necessary to remove two basic impediments to an
expanded and more production-oriented livestock research program: the rela-
tive scarcity of funds allocated for the purpose and the lack of adequate
research coordination between INIA and INIP in livestock production.
Extension
1.20      Organized extension services provided through SARH, State Govern-
ments, FIRA, public agricultural banks and some private organizations have
expanded considerably in recent years. SARH staff alone has gone from 367
extensionists in 1970 to 5,200 in 1976, while FIRA's technical staff numbers
716, public agricultural banks employ about 1,800 technicians, and private
banks about 425. The number of farmers served by SARH technicians has
increased from 202,000 in 1971 to 1.5 million in 1976 and the area covered
from 859,000 ha in 1971 to 5 million ha in 1976. This was accompanied by
upgrading the service to a general directorate; increasing salaries; and
taking measures to make the staff more mobile, to strengthen the link to
research, and to work increasingly through farmers' groups.
1/   INIP's budgetary allocation for 1977 is about Mex$120 million.



-7-
1.21      However, even if allowance is made for farmers who are not potential
candidates for extension, either because they do not require it or are not
likely to benefit from it, there is need to extend the scope of the services,
which, in the case of SARH, covers only 20% of the farm area. Further steps
have also bec- taken to (a) overcome deficiencies in internal coordination and
delays in administrative procedures of the services, (b) reduce staff turnover
and improve the professional standards of the extensionists, (c) make greater
use of crop demonstration and extension aids and communication techniques,
(d) derive recommendations from region-specific production development programs
and (e) promote farmer participation. SARH established the National Program
for Agricultural Development in Rainfed Areas (PRONDAAT) in 1974 as an alter-
native approach to its traditional extension methods. The program is based on
experiences with the Plan Puebla and it is supported also from the Graduate
College of the Chapingo Agricultural University. In essence, the PRONDAAT
method seeks to give the extension agent a broader development role by directly
involving him in the organization of farmer level institutions in marketing
and in the provision of credit and inputs. The approach is supported by an
incentive program of adaptive field trials and evaluation designed to produce
technical packages for each localized ecological zone. The program is oriented
to small, low-income farmers; initial results have been most promising and
SARH is now planning a considerable expansion of the program which could lead
eventually to the adoption of the PRONDAAT approach by the whole of the
extension service. One of the first objectives of this expansion is to
provide PRONDAAT services to all micro-regions of Government's Investment
Program for Rural Development (PIDER).
E. Agricultural Development Strategies
1.22      In recent years, the Government has sought three main objectives
through its agricultural policy: (a) self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs;
(b) increased production of export crops; and (c) higher incomes, improved
living standards and greater employment opportunities for the rural poor.
With the production shortfalls in basic grains since the mid-1970s, the
objective of self-sufficiency appears to be a dominant concern of current
policymakers. In view of these priorities and with favorable prospects
for increased petroleum production and export earnings, Mexico is in a posi-
tion to structure its agricultural development strategy in order to put
the sector on a more competitive basis, provide access to modern farming to
a higher proportion of its rural population, and return to the higher sec-
torial growth rates of earlier periods.  The major elements in this strategy
would be the opening up of new areas suitable to rainfed agriculture, partic-
ularly in the humid-tropical zone, as well as rehabilitation and expansion of
the irrigation and drainage infrastructure, and the modernization of farming
techniques in existing areas, irrigated as well as rainfed. Investments in
education, research and extension would be a cornerstone of this new approach
and, where necessary, would be linked to the provision of physical infrastruc-
ture, particularly access roads, land and water resource development, and
storage and marketing facilities. This approach would permit fuller utiliza-
tion of existing and incremental physical infrastructure.



-8-
1.23      One of the most successful contributions by the Bank to Mexican
agricultural development in recent years have been loans for agricultural
credit to the Bank of Mexico trust funds under FIRA. These projects, compe-
tently administered, have expanded their scope from basically livestock
development financing to include other activities, and from largely high-
and medium-income farmers to low-income farmers as well. Bank strategy for
lending in the agricultural sector will continue to build upon the achieve-
ments of the FIRA program and the experience gained in the rural development
projects presently under execution (PIDER I and II, Loans 1110-ME and 1462-ME,
and Papaloapan Rural Development, Loan 1053-ME). In addition, increasing
importance will be assigned to projects in the humid tropics and for small-
scale irrigation works.
Expansion of Cropped Areas
1.24      Humid Zones.  Development of the rainfed agricultural potential of the
Gulf Coast could make an important contribution to the expansion of sectorial
output, farm incomes and rural employment opportunities. In addition, it would
put Mexican agriculture on a more competitive footing; maize, sorghum, oilseeds,
rice and sugarcane could almost certainly be grown more economically in this
zone rather than in irrigated areas of the northwest, permitting the latter to
shift scarce land and water resources to higher value crops. Finally, new
products like rubber, palm oil and cassava, as well as substantial increases
in cocoa and livestock, would become available to meet primarily domestic
demand. Rainfed agricultural development along the Pacific Coast, although
of more limited scope because of differences in soils, topography, and rain-
fall, could also make a significant contribution to improved conditions in the
countryside and overall growth of the sector. A program of area expansion
within the limits of available technical information, manpower and budgetary
allocations should receive high priority in agricultural sector planning.
The recently approved Tropical Agricultural Development Project will initiate
a significant effort to intensify agricultural production in the tropical
lowlands of Mexico, as well as support the improvement and strengthening of
the agricultural research and extension services in the tropics.
1.25      Irrigation.  There are presently about 5 million ha of irrigated land
in Mexico, accounting for about 50% of the value of sectorial output. Some 2.7
million ha are organized into irrigation districts under SARH responsibility,
while an additional 1.1 million ha are organized into small-scale irrigation
units, also under SARH. The remaining approximately 1.2 million ha of irrigated
land are under private operation, although subject to the provisions of the
National Water Law (1971). During the period 1972-75, the Mexican Government
carried out a National Water Plan (PNH), under a tripartite agreement with the
UNDP and the Bank as executing agency. On the basis of the National Water
Plan Report, investment in water resource development would continue to play a
significant role in the expansion of agricultural output. Rehabilitation of
some irrigation districts would be of high priority, accompanied by a continued
emphasis on small-scale, less capital intensive irrigation programs and, in
addition, further investment in large irrigation, drainage and flood control



-9-
projects. Each specific program or project would be considered according to
a careful and realistic assessment of the costs and benefits involved. Special
attention would continue to be given to beneficiary charges adequate to cover
not only all operation and maintenance expenditure, but appreciably higher
proportions of investment costs as well. In addition, the adequacy of sup-
porting services, particularly technical assistance to farmers, would be
assigned a high priority.
Education, Research and Extension
1.26      Programs to improve and expand the education, research and extension
facilities will be key components for the future sectorial growth strategy.
Improvements in these services are essential for increased productivity in
existing areas (irrigated and rainfed) as well as for successful implementation
of area expansion programs. The Mexican Government is keenly aware of the
importance of these services, and further steps are being taken to strengthen
them, as pointed out in paragraphs 1.18-1.21.
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. The Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
2.01      FIRA is the common name for the trust funds established by the
Federal Government with the Bank of Mexico: (a) the Fondo de Garantia y
Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO): (b) Fondo
Especial para Financiamientos Agropecuarios (FEFA); and (c) Fondo Especial de
Asistencia Tecnica y Garantia para Creditos Agropecuarios (FEGA).
2.02      The establishment of FONDO in 1955 as a trust fund in the Bank
of Mexico was a landmark in the development of agricultural credit in Mexico
because, by providing a combination of credit and technical assistance to the
public and private banks, the FONDO has contributed significantly to the
growth in the volume of such credit and to its qualitative improvement in
terms of sound appraisal and supervision practices.
2.03      The FONDO was created to encourage the private banking systems to
participate more actively in financing the credit needs of the agricultural
sector. FONDO discounted subloans made by private banks, allowing the latter
to expand their portfolio of loans to the agricultural sector, and also, given
the differential margin between the lending rate to farmers and FONDO's
discount rate to the participating banks, permitting higher rates of return on
the private banks' invested capital. The private banks bore the risk of
lending and the responsibility for collection, but their risks were greatly
reduced by the development of the FONDO's regional offices and staff, which
carried out much of the technical analysis of prospective borrowers and
projects.



- 10 -
2.04      Initiated with Government funds, the FONDO originally restricted
its activities principally to short-term agricultural production credit,
such as was needed to finance the annual crop cycle and the upkeep of live-
stock herds. The FONDO's resources were later augmented by loans from AID
and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and it also began to discount
longer term subloans for investments. The real movement into on-farm devel-
opment lending occurred only after 1965, when a second trust fund (FEFA) was
established within FIRA. This fund was established to channel foreign loans
such as those from the Bank with corresponding counterpart funds in local
currency, to medium- and long-term lending, financing investments in agricul-
ture, livestock and agroindustries.
2.05      Apart from loans from external sources, both FONDO and FEFA receive
financing from the Government and the Bank of Mexico. Government equity in
both trust funds is increasing through time, because the principal of external
loans is repaid by the Government and the local currency equivalent, deposited
with the institution at the time of receipt of the external loans, is accumu-
lating in the trust funds as additional equity to permit increased agricul-
tural lending. Thus, under its current structure, FIRA has available funds
from both domestic and international sources for rediscounting development
subloans made by private and public banks to both commercial and low-income
producers in the agricultural sector. FIRA also rediscounts to private banks
short-term credits for basic field crop and livestock production.
2.06      FIRA has a central office in Mexico City, nine regional offices,
37 state offices and 87 local offices. Of the total FIRA staff of 1,176 in
mid-1977, 716 were technical specialists. The majority (557) of these
technical specialists are located in the regional, state and local offices.
In addition to its own staff, FIRA has trained and/or designated as qualified
to evaluate and approve subloans, 1,232 technical/credit specialists in parti-
cipating banks. Of this total, 807 technicians work in public banks and
425 technicians work in private financial institutions. For a small propor-
tion of the loans approved by private banks, the loan evaluation and technical
assistance are carried out directly by FIRA staff.
2.07      The FEGA was created in 1973 as a fund to defray to participating
banks part of the costs of loan evaluation and technical assistance associated
with lending operations to ejidatarios and other low-income producers (LIPs)
(up to 3% of amount of loan, and in special cases up to 6%), and to issue
guarantees to private banks for the recovery of loans. Since its creation
until September 30, 1977, FEGA issued guarantees amounting to Mex$2,377 million
(Mex$1,373 million for short-term credits and Mex$1,004 million for long- and
medium-term loans) and paid to banks on account of these guarantees Mex$18.7
million -- 0.8% of the total guarantees issued. This reflects the favorable
subloan recuperation record of participating banks under the FIRA program;
a survey in mid-1977 of banks accounting for 35% of FIRA's rediscount portfolio
on Bank-financed loans shows arrears of only 0.8% of the outstanding subloan
balances. During 1976, FEGA reimbursed participating banks Mex$23.5 million
to cover technical assistance costs, and in 1977, about Mex$25.0 million will
be paid by FEGA to banks for technical assistance. All payments made by FEGA
on account of guarantees and for technical assistance as well as FEGA's
administrative budget are paid by the Government.



- 11 -
B. Public Sector Agricultural Banks
Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (BNCR or Banrural)
2.08      The BNCR was created in 1975 through an amalgamation of three
public sector banking institutions: the Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola,
the Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal and the Banco Nacional Agropecuario.
On September 30, 1977 the fully paid-up capital and reserves of BNCR amounted
to Mex$3,202 million. In 1976, total lending operations were Mex$20,400
million, 10% of which was for medium- and long-term development loans. The
lending programs for 1977 and 1978 were Mex$24,300 million and Mex$28,000
million, respectively, of which 12% to 13% would constitute medium- and
long-term lending. BNCR predominantly services low-income producers; 92% of
its clients are ejidatarios and it accounts for 75% of the institutional
lending to this group.
2.09      It will take some time for the BNCR to overcome numerous weaknesses
and deficiencies inherited from its predecessor institutions. These problems
are reviewed in Annex 2, which presents further background information on
BNCR. A rehabilitation program has been initiated and the central management
is making serious efforts to unify operational procedures and increase coordina-
tion and efficiency. The Bank has had a continuous dialogue with the Government
and BNCR management regarding the changes and improvements in its operations.
In November 1977, the Government and BNCR agreed that all subloans would be
classified at time of loan approval into loans which constituted normal bank
lending operations and those whose recuperation was doubtful and which were
being undertaken for social or other reasons, the latter to be granted from
special Government trust funds to be established within BNCR for such purposes.
Of BNCR's medium- and long-term loan portfolio at September 30, 1977, about
22% is more than 30 days overdue. BNCR has initiated a program to clear this
portfolio of overdue loans through loan rescheduling, legal and other actions;
a special department has been established for this task. In addition, im-
proved reporting procedures on loan collection have been introduced to enable
management to undertake necessary actions on a timely basis, while recently
introduced higher interest rates and more aggressive collection of overdue
loans should increase BNCR's current income. The BNCR program therefore
should result in the gradual strengthening of the operational and financial
structure of the institution.
Financiera Nacional Azucarera (FINASA)
2.10      FINASA is a wholly Government-owned financial institution, assigned
the sole responsibility for meeting all the credit needs of the sugar industry,
both short-term and medium-term, for cane producers and sugar mills, including
production, marketing and development. FINASA also operates, as an agent
of the Government, the Sugar Trust Fund, which lends to sugar mills unable
to provide normally required collateral, and the Sugar Price Stabilization
Fund. Apart from a paid-up capital of Mex$1,000 million, the principal
sources of FINASA's funds are borrowings from the public and from foreign and
domestic banks.



- 12 -
2.11      FINASA's loan portfolio consists mainly of loans to sugar mills,
for meeting short- and medium-term credit demands for mill operations, and
for the farmers supplying cane to the mills, as well as for marketing and
the expansion of existing or construction of new mills. Cane production
is largely undertaken by ejidatarios and private smallholders; in 1974, 94%
of the producers cultivated less than 10 ha of cane. All loans to cane
producers, such as those to be provided under the proposed project, are
channelled through the mills and, to the extent possible, are in kind (fertil-
izer, tractor services, transportation, and the like) on the basis of an
appraisal of needs by field staff of the mills, who also supervise these
loans, with technical support from the national organization for sugarcane
research (IMPA). The loans are recovered when the farmer delivers his cane to
the mill, which is the sole purchaser of cane in its geographical jurisdiction.
During the 1975-77 period, FIRA rediscounted Mex$146 million of medium- and
long-term credit extended by FINASA for 37,500 ha and 13,500 beneficiaries.
C. Private Banks
2.12      Until the establishment of the FONDO rediscounting facilities,
commercial banks were hesitant to undertake agricultural term lending because
of the short-term nature of the bulk of their resources, problems of collateral
and their lack of familiarity with agriculture. This situation has appreciably
changed during the last decade, largely owing to the support extended by FIRA
in terms of funds and services. Many private banks have been establishing and
rapidly expanding agricultural credit departments and hiring significant
numbers of agricultural technicians; by the end of 1977, some 425 agricultural
technicians in private banks had been authorized by FIRA to evaluate and approve
subloans. The Bank of Mexico has also encouraged this trend by stipulating
that an amount equal to 2% of the total deposits in banks be held in the form
of agricultural loans to low-income producers. Another important development
has been the reimbursement from FEGA for technical assistance costs and
guarantees for small farmer loans (para 2.07). The banks have, as a result,
increased their technical staffs and expanded their lending to farmers,
including ejidatarios and other low-income producers. Nevertheless, their
total loans outstanding for agriculture have increased only from Mex$6,582
million in 1970 to Mex$21,163 million in mid-1977, a modest expansion in real
terms if allowance is made for inflation. Commercial banks have been making
increased use of FIRA rediscount facilities. Private banks rediscounted
Mex$674 million of their medium- and long-term lending in 1973, Mex$1,120
million in 1974 and Mex$1,758 million in 1976.
D. Performance under Previous Agricultural Credit Projects
2.13      The proposed loan represents the sixth of a series of loans to
Mexico to support lending for crop and livestock development. These first
five loans totalled US$400 million, and an additional amount, approximately
US$63.4 million, is being channelled through FIRA under two Bank financed



- 13 -
rural development projects and the recently approved Tropical Agricultural
Development Project. The first loan (430-ME, US$25 million, effective Oct. 1,
1965) provided funds for medium- and long-term on-farm investments to medium-
sized and commercial farmers in the tropical zone, central plateau and northern
Mexico, financing a variety of activities but largely livestock, annual crops
and perennial crops, with a lesser amount for agroindustries. On-farm subloans
amounted to some 5,500, with 80% of them having a value of less than US$6,700
equivalent, while 2% of the loans were over US$80,000 equivalent and accounted
for 23% of the amount lent. Livestock activities accounted for 60% of the
disbursements, annual crops for 19%, perennial crops 5%, and agroindustries 16%.
2.14      The favorable performance of FIRA under the First Project
encouraged the Bank to process a second loan to maintain program continuity.
The Second Project (Loan 610-ME, US$65 million, effective September 19, 1969)
continued the activities initiated under the first loan and added a cattle
development component for southeastern Mexico. In this project, 11,651 sub-
loans were made, averaging US$17,000 equivalent each; the smallest 85% aver-
aged US$6,400 and loans over US$80,000 were only 1% of the total and accounted
for about 10% of the funds. Livestock activities absorbed 61% of the funds
disbursed, annual crops, 28%; perennial crops, 8%; and agroindustries, 3%.
2.15      The Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 747-ME, US$75 million
equivalent, effective September 1, 1971) was fully disbursed in April 1974
and closed on September 30, 1975. In this project, 12,326 subloans were
made; 81% of these were less than US$20,000 equivalent, averaging US$6,500,
while 6% were in excess of US$80,000 equivalent and accounted for 29% of the
amount disbursed. Of the amounts lent, 58% were for livestock enterprises
(four-fifths of these beef ranches), 24% was for annual crops, 8% for peren-
nial crops, 7% for agroindustries, and 3% for mixed farming enterprises.
2.16      Subloans under the first three projects had included an appreciable
number of modest size loans, and -- in the Third Project -- an increasing
number of ejidos participated. The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
910-ME, US$110 million, effective October 24, 1973), while continuing to sup-
port the activities financed under the previous projects, included a specific
component directed to low-income producers (LIPs), totalling 20% of project
subloans. Total disbursements under the Fourth Project were US$303.5 million;
disbursement of the Bank loan was completed by December 31, 1975, one and
one-half years ahead of schedule. Overall, 10,881 subloans were made, aver-
aging US$24,260. Of the total number of subloans, 1,910 went to low-income
producers, averaging US$19,140. Individual smallholders received 1,118 sub-
loans and groups (ejidos, sociedades and grupos solidarios), 792. The number
of direct beneficiaries was 23,552 and the average subloan per beneficiary
in the low-income producers' component was US$1,552. Of the total amount
lent under the project, 54% was for livestock enterprises (two-thirds of this
for beef ranches), 24% for annual crop farms, 7% for perennial crops, 13% for
agroindustries, and 2% unclassified.
2.17      The Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1217-ME, US$125 million,
effective August 29, 1976) is currently being implemented by FIRA. It
represents a continuation of the activities financed under the previous Bank



- 14 -
loans for livestock, crop and agroindustrial development. It includes a
substantially expanded low-income producer component, slightly over 40% of
the lending program, and also provides for field demonstrations, farmer and
staff training, project monitoring and pilot schemes for group farming enter-
prises. The medium-income farmer component was virtually fully disbursed by
February 1978. Bank disbursement for the low-income producer component was
slow moving initially, as the Bank awaited clarification from the Mexican
authorities on the operating policies to be introduced by the Banrural. The
Banrural was fully incorporated into the Fifth Project in the latter part of
1977. It is anticipated that the proceeds of Loan 1217-ME will be fully
disbursed by October 1978.
2.18      A Project Performance Audit (Report 1573, April 27, 1977) carried
out by the Operations Evaluation Department on the Third Project (Loan 747-ME)
and the Completion Report on the Fourth Project (Loan 910-ME) presently under
preparation point out some achievements as well as some problems encountered
in the Bank's agricultural credit program in Mexico. The institutional growth
of FIRA has clearly been one of the major accomplishments of the program, with
impressive expansion and up-grading of FIRA staff, decentralization of opera-
tions, and support to participating banks, which has resulted in an effective
use of loan funds and an effective mechanism for the channelling of credit to
the agricultural sector. The economic rates of return on subloans finansed
under the Third Project were estimated to fall into the 12% to 20% range. For
subloans made under this Third Project, only 4% of the private participating
banks' portfolio was overdue more than six months; arrears constituted 4.1%
for the Banco Agropecuario, the only public bank participating in the project.
Preliminary analysis of the subloan portfolio financed under the recently
closed Fourth Project indicate that appraisal expectations have been met.
Under the Fourth Project, a low income farmers component was initiated,
designed to complement FIRA's on-going operations for medium and commercial
producers. Commitment of funds to low-income farmers proceeded well and
a slightly larger number of relatively smaller subloans were financed than
forecast at appraisal.
2.19      However, certain common problems have also been encountered during
the course of the implementation of the Third and Fourth Projects. The rates
of return for livestock operations have tended to lie in the lower end of the
range due, in part, to the tendency of sub-borrowers to pursue development
programs with less emphasis on pasture intensification. A relatively high
percentage of total loan funds financed livestock development, 58% under
the Third Project and 54% under the Fourth Project; within these subloans
68% of investment funds were utilized to purchase breeding stock under the
Third Project, and 66-69% under the Fourth. Such a pattern reflects in part
the continuing farmers' uncertainty regarding implementation of agrarian re-
form in Mexico, resulting in a hesitation to invest in long-term investments
in land improvement. In addition, experience gained under both projects
indicates that without intensive technical supervision of subloans, deviations
from appraisal expectations for on-farm development may occur. Servicing of
small farmers in particular has required an intensive degree of technical
support and assistance from FIRA staff. The need for intensive technical
supervision of subloans is clear, and FIRA has stretched its resources in



- 15 -
attempting to prepare technically sound subloans as well as provide on-going
technical services to farmers. The Fourth Project initiated the operation of
a monitoring unit within FIRA; while some progress was made in estblishing
this unit, problems were encountered in achieving an adequate coverage of the
full range of fIRA investment activities. In addition, due to the rapid rate
of disbursement of funds, data collected reflect a point in time relatively
early in the implementation of farm investment plans, and thus, are not fully
indicative of the impact at full development of subloans financed under each
discrete project. However, progress has been achieved in the evolution of the
system under the on-going program.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The Government of Mexico has requested a Bank loan to help
finance an agricultural credit project for medium- and long-term invest-
ments in crop, livestock and agroindustrial development in a variety of
enterprises located throughout the country, as well as supporting FIRA's
activities in training, demonstration and technical assistance. The
proposed Sixth Agricultural Credit would be a continuation of the credit
programs initiated with the first loan granted in 1965. Under the
preceding five projects, US$400 million were loaned to Mexico for crop,
livestock and agroindustrial credit. Of the Fifth Loan (1217-ME) for
US$125 million, US$83 million were disbursed by March 29, 1978, and it is
anticipated that the remainder will be fully disbursed by October 1978.
The feasibility study for the proposed project was prepared by FIRA staff
and submitted to the Bank in October 1977. A list of studies and working
papers relating to the proposed project is given in Annex 3.
B. Brief Description
3.02      The proposed project would finance, over a three-year period,
subloans for medium- and long-term investments channeled through private
and public financial institutions, with the following objectives:
(a) to increase the supply of crop and livestock products to
meet the needs of a rapidly expanding national market;
(b) to enable the agricultural sector to expand its contribution
to export earnings and import substitution;
(c) to improve the opportunities for employment in rural areas
both on farms and in agroindustrial enterprises; and
(d) to raise the incomes of farm families.



- 16 -
3.03      The project would finance technically and financially sound invest-
ment plans for annual and perennial crop farms, beef, dairy and dual purpose
ranches, and small agroindustries. About 13,600 subloans are expected to
be committed and disbursed over approximately three years (Table 3.1). The
project would also include finance for training, demonstration, technical
assistance and monitoring activities carried out by the executing agency
(FIRA) and the participating banks.
3.04      The countrywide project would be executed by FIRA, under arrange-
ments similar to those which have proven to be successful under earlier
projects, with credit channelled to farmers through some 150 participating
private and public sector banks. FIRA would rediscount specific proportions
of subloans disbursed by these private institutions to sub-borrowers. Respon-
sibility for the preparation, evaluation and approval of subloans is largely
vested in the technical staff of the participating institutions, who have
been pre-qualified by FIRA. FIRA technical staff would provide back-stopping
to the loan approval, technical assistance and subloan supervision activities
of participating bank technicians.
C. Detailed Features
Project Area and Scope
3.05      The credit program would provide finance for a wide variety of
technically and financially sound on-farm and agroindustrial investments,
based on the experience gained from the previous and on-going projects, and
the assessment of FIRA and other institutions of the demand for the different
types of credit. About 47% of the sublending would be for livestock invest-
ment, 43% for annual and perennial crops, and 10% for agroindustries. The
farm, ranch and agroindustrial models described in the following paragraphs
are illustrative of the types of investment to be financed under the project
and reflect FIRA's actual lending program. In practice, there would be
considerable variation in the size of the subloans, as well as in the invest-
ment package financed, given the wide range of regional conditions and
producer organization. The numbers of subloans for each model (Table 3.1)
are therefore only indicative of the volume and pattern of the lending
program.
Livestock Lending Program
3.06      Physical and financial parameters for livestock activities have
been obtained by analyzing FIRA's actual 1976 on-farm loan program and by
updating costs and prices to June 1977 in order to derive average unit in-
vestment costs. The production parameters are based on those employed by
FIRA in evaluating the 1976 loan program.
3.07      Dairy - Stabled Feeding.  This model (Annex 1, Table 7) represents
the traditional system for milk production on commercial dairy farms, mainly
concentrated in the temperate central plateau and, to a lesser extent, in the



- 17 -
-rid and semi-arid irrigated north.  Investments would include alfalfa estab-
lishment, extensions to existing dairy buildings, water supplies, irrigation,
milking and cooling equipment, agricultural machinery, and the purchase of
in-calf Holstein heifers. Feed is harvested and fed to stalled animals.
Alfalfa is fed as green forage during the spring and summer and corn silage
and forage oats, as well as purchased alfalfa hay, is used during the winter.
Concentrate supplements are fed at the rate of about 1 kg per 3 liters of
milk. These farms generally have a limited area of land on which to expand
feed production so that herd expansion is associated with a greater reliance
on purchased feedstuffs. Under the development plan, farm-produced feedstuffs
would decrease from a level of 75% before development to 60% at full develop-
ment. As a consequence of the proposed investment and accompanying technical
assistance, the calving rate is expected to improve from 70% to 75% and
average milk production per lactation from 3150 liters to 3600 liters over a
five-year period. The model is based on an operating unit of 30 ha; most
likely subloans will be for units ranging from 20 to 60 ha.
3.08      Dairy - Grazing System.  The model for investment in dairy produc-
tion under grazing management (Annex 1, Table 8) represents a composite
program projected for 500 farms comprising the conversion of existing stabled-
type dairy farms (88%), the establishment of new dairy farms (8%), and the
establishment of specialized heifer rearing farms (4%). The system represents
a pilot low cost technology developed on FIRA demonstration farms to reduce
the use of high cost feed concentrates. Investments would cover establish-
ment of permanent pastures, remodeling or building new milking parlors,
installation of milking machines and milk cooling equipment, fencing and water
supply, purchase of agricultural machinery and purchase of in-calf Holstein
heifers and heifer calves for rearing. On existing farms, four-year rotation
of alfalfa would be substituted by higher yielding permanent pastures and
winter forage oats by annual ryegrass, thereby lowering dependence upon
purchased concentrates to 1 kg per 4 liters of milk. New farms would commence
with the establishment of permanent pastures.  In the model, farm-produced
feedstuffs decrease from a level of 76% before development to 69% at full
development.  It is estimated that the calving rate would be raised from 70%
to 75% and milk production per lactation increaed from 3100 liters to 3500
liters. Dairies served by this type of subloan would mostly be in the range
of 25 ha to 80 ha; the model represents a 31-ha operation.
3.09      Dual Purpose Cattle.  The dual purpose model (Annex 1, Table 9)
is representative of the tropical regions and is a composite program for 3500
farms. About 80% of the ranches to be financed would require an investment of
about US$17,500 per farm in new and renovated pastures, improvements to farm
buildings, fences, water supply, milk cooling equipment and purchase of
breeding cattle. The other 20% of ranches of this type require an investment
around US$35,000 per unit in order to establish new farms and to upgrade to
more specialized dairy production, involving additional investment in tropical
pastures, irrigation, milking equipment and crossbred cows with improved
milking qualities. The dual purpose farm utilizes natural pastures as the
feed source, without using concentrates. In the wet tropics, production is
oriented chiefly to the sale of ranch-bred fattened cattle and milk for local
consumption. It is estimated that, on average, the stocking rate would



- 18 -
increase from 1.3 Au/ha to 1.6 Au/ha by year 2, extraction rate from 18% to
22% by year 5, and milk production per lactation from an initial level of 450
liters to 750 liters by year 5. Subloans would largely be for ranches ranging
from 80 ha to 200 ha; this model assumes a 120-ha ranch.
3.10      Beef Production.  The beef model (Annex 1, Table 10) is a composite
program proportionally representing the three major specialized beef produc-
tion regions. Investments would include establishment and renovation of
pastures and fences; improvements to farm water supply, dips, corrals and farm
buildings; and the purchase of breeding cattle. In the northern and semi-arid
region (20% of the subloans), output comprises feeder steers and boneless beef
from cull cows, both products for the USA market. Ranches in the dry tropical
Pacific (20% of the subloans) produce cull cows and feeder steers for fattening.
The major component represented by the model is the Gulf Coast region (60% of
the subloans) represented by the fattening component, including ranch-bred and
purchased feeder steers. This Gulf Coast region is the major source of quality
beef for the domestic market. It is projected that the proposed investment
would lead to a 33% increase in stocking rate by year 8, weaning rate would be
raised from 60% to 65% by year 4, and adult mortality rate would be reduced
from 3% to 2%. These changes would lead to an increase in the annual extraction
rate from 18% to 24% by year 7. The model assumes a 700 ha operation; most
subloans would be for ranches in the range of 400 ha to 1,000 ha.
3.11      Other Livestock.  An important part of the investment in other
livestock would be for swine production (Annex 1, Table 11) and the remainder
would mainly cover poultry, sheep and goat production. The swine model envisages
a combined breeding and fattening operation based on purchased feed require-
ments. The investments would be mainly in buildings appropriate for the
different classes of stock, feed storage, water and drainage facilities, and
purchase of breeding stock. The majority of loans are expected to continue
to be in the "Bajio" (central plateau) region where commercial production has
concentrated because of proximity to grain production and main consumption
centers. Mainly through an increase in the annual farrowing rate from 1.6
to 1.8 litters per year, total pigs sold per sow per year would be expected
to increase from 12 up to 14 by year 2. These changes would increase pork
production from around an initial 890 kg to 1040 kg per sow annually.
Agricultural Development Lending Program
3.12      Technical parameters for the agricultural activities are based on
actual farm development projects financed in 1976, while costs and prices
have been updated to June 1977, based on the most recent information avail-
able at FIRA's regional offices.
3.13      Rainfed Annual Crops.  This operation represents the prevailing
traditional farming practices by which basic food crops, mainly maize and
beans, are produced under rainfed conditions. The projected investment is
intended to upgrade soils by means of subsoiling as well as to extend the
effective cultivable area by about 20%. It would finance the purchase of
farming equipment, the clearing of additional lands and the improvement
of yields on the presently cultivated area. Through the investment program



- 19 -
and application of improved farming practices yields of maize and beans are
expected to rise from present levels of 1.6 tons/ha and 0.6 tons/ha to 2.1
tons/ha and 0.8 tons/ha, respectively, in a period of 3 to 4 years. The area
served by this type of subloan would tend to fall in the range of 50 ha to 300
ha. The representative model is based on a 180-ha case (Annex 1, Table 12).
3.14      Tubewell Irrigated Annual Crops.  This activity refers to the
development of irrigation facilities in small units. The financing provided
by the subloan would be complementary to investments in infrastructure and
works financed by fiscal funds for the development of groundwater resources,
a program which has been successfully executed by the Government for some
years now. In addition to power installation and well equipment, the subloan
would also finance other on-farm investments such as land preparation,
buildings and agricultural machinery. This type of operation would take
place throughout the country. The subloan would permit up-grading of the
cropping pattern, at present based on traditional crops--wheat, beans, maize
and sorghum--with an intensity of 80%, by the introduction of higher value
crops, such as cotton and soybeans, as well as increasing the cropping
intensity to 125%. Yields of wheat, beans and maize would be improved from
present levels of 2.0 tons/ha, 0.7 tons/ha and 1.6 tons/ha to 3.2 tons/ha,
1.3 tons/ha and 3.0 tons/ha, respectively, while cotton and soybeans are
expected to attain yields of 2.2 tons/ha and 2.0 tons/ha. Full development
would be reached in about five years. This type of operation would mostly
take place in ejidos, although it could also be on the aggregated area of a
group of smallholders. Individual subprojects would most likely be between
200 ha and 600 ha; the analysis is based on a 400 ha model (Annex 1, Table 13).
3.15      Gravity Irrigated Annual Crops.  This type of subloan would include
financing of on-farm irrigation and drainage infrastructure, roads and land
levelling, farm buildings, and agricultural equipment. Changes in cropping
pattern would mainly involve a significant increase in area devoted to higher
value crops as well as a more intensive use of the land, resulting in a
cropping intensity of about 135%. Yields of beans, maize and soybeans would
reach similar levels to those projected for the previous model; new crops,
safflower and sorghum, are expected to yield 1.5 tons/ha and 3.5 tons/ha,
respectively. Full development would be attained in about 4 years. It is
envisaged that such subloans would be made in numerous irrigation districts,
and would permit fuller use of the potential generated by main infrastructure
works. Subloan beneficiaries would be either ejidatarios or groups of small-
holders, mostly likely on extensions ranging from 250 ha to 600 ha. This
analysis is based on a 400-ha model (Annex 1, Table 14).
3.16      Irrigated Orchard Development.  This model describes the replacement
of irrigated annual crops with orchards which, in addition to yielding higher
returns, have substantially lower irrigation water requirements. The project
would finance on-farm civil works, replacement of pumping and farming equip-
ment, and the establishment costs of the new plantation. Walnut, a rapidly
growing crop in the northern regions of Mexico with a well established inter-
national market, has been selected as representative of this activity, which
is expected to be undertaken mainly by private producers, although it may also



- 20 -
be carried out by low-income producers within ejidos. At full development,
yields would be similar to those presently obtained in existing orchards--1.5
tons/ha--and would be achieved in a period of about 12 years. The area for
such subloans would most likely fall in the range of 20 ha to 60 ha. The
representative model assumes 40 ha (Annex 1, Table 15).
3.17      Rainfed Orchard Rehabilitation.  This activity refers to demand
for credit to rehabilitate plantations of tropical fruit trees whose present
yields are well below their potential. The subloan would finance the cost
of replacing about 20% of the existing plantation, with a minimal component
of capital goods; it would include planting materials, fertilizers and
pesticides, minor farming equipment (sprayers) and labor input for orchard
rehabilitation. Cocoa plantations have been chosen as an illustration;
these are generally owned by small private farmers whose properties are in
the 1 to 3 ha range and for whom they represent the main source of cash income.
Yields are expected to reach 1 ton/ha over a development period of about five
years. Farmers are expected to form groups with areas ranging between 50 ha
and 150 ha. The analysis here is based on a 100-ha model (Annex 1, Table 16).
3.18      Rainfed Sugarcane Rehabilitation.  Subloans would also be provided
for the rehabilitation of sugarcane farms, mainly in the humid tropical
zones. As the equipment needed for the replanting work is provided by the
sugar mills under contract to the numerous small scale growers, subloans
would cover the fees that mills charge the farmers for carrying out the
works and furnishing the materials. With ratoon currently lasting six or
more years, present yields are about 42 tons/ha of cane, with a sucrose
content of 12%. With the subloans, the cane would be replanted once every
four years by rotating 25% of the land from the fifth year onwards; this,
together with improved agricultural practices would increase the average
yield to about 67 tons/ha and would bring about an increase in sucrose content
of one-half of a percentage point. Taking into account the more frequent
replanting, full development would be attained in nine years. Beneficiaries
of such subloans would be predominantly ejidatarios, but an appreciable
proportion of private farmers, both low-income producers and others, are
also expected to participate in this activity. Size of these sublending
operations would most likely vary between 3000 ha and 5000 ha, depending on
the respective mill's capacity and jurisdiction. The analysis here is based
on a model with 3600 ha (Annex 1, Table 17).
Agroindustries
3.19      Approximately 22% of the proposed investments for agroindustries
would be related to the livestock subsector (slaughterhouses, milk plants,
feedmills, Annex 1, Tables 18 to 20) and about 7% for crop processing,
such as fruit grading and packing (Annex 1, Table 21). Provision has also
been made for a few logging and sawmill operations (Annex 1, Table 22) to be
established by ejidatarios in the forest areas of Guerrero, Durango and
Chihuahua (8%). Items to be financed for agroindustrial enterprises include
engineering design, site preparation, provision of utilities (water and power
installations), buildings, machinery, and equipment. It is envisaged that
about 300 subloans would be made for renovation and expansion of small existing
agroindustrial plants. All the processing units are expected to be organized
by groups of producers, small farmers and ejidatarios.



- 21 -
3.20      Table 3.1 summarizes the projected number of sub-borrowers, the
average investment and subloan values and the volume of investment and
lending under the credit program.
Training, Monitoring. Demonstration and Technical Assistance
3.21      Training and Monitoring.  FIRA would continue to provide training
to its own staff as well as the staff of participating banks and the Govern-
ment extension service. In addition, FIRA is playing an increasing role in
conducting specific training programs for selected farmers. For its own
staff, FIRA offers a two-year scholarship program for master-level training
at national and foreign universities in the major areas where staff expertise
requires strengthening. New staff, anticipated to be about 300 professionals
during the execution of the project, attend a six-month course covering credit
operations and including practical field experience on topics appropriate to
their future responsibilities. Moreover, field staff attend short-term courses
to keep them abreast of modern technology and farming practices as well as
administration. For the staff of participating public and private banks, FIRA
operates training programs at both the professional and technician level.
It is anticipated that this latter group will play an increasingly important
role in providing technical assistance to LIP beneficiaries. These courses
are intended to upgrade and expand these staff and permit assigning them
greater responsibility for subloan preparation and supervision and providing
improved technical assistance to sub-borrowers. For farmers benefitting from
subloans, FIRA operates a number of short-term courses, covering a wide
variety of topics, and carries out a number of field day seminars at FIRA
demonstration farms on the application of new production methods. Under the
proposed project the Bank would finance the foreign exchange component of the
graduate training program outside Mexico for approximately 240 technicians
in the areas of crops, livestock, agroindustry and producer organization.
Moreover, provision is made for financing up to 60 man/months of consulting
services during the project to assist with local training and further improve-
ment to dairy production grazing systems and 12 man/months of consulting
services for the FIRA monitoring program. (The monitoring program is discussed
in more detail in paragraphs 4.12 and 4.13.) In addition to these foreign
exchange costs, the Bank would finance US$2.7 million equivalent or 35% of
the local costs of the training program, so that its total financing of
US$5.1 million will represent 50% of the total estimated expenditures of
US$10.2 million for this component. Table 23 in Annex 1 summarizes the
budget and throughput of the FIRA training program under the proposed project.
3.22      Demonstration.  Through its close contact with production problems
at the farm level and its activities in production oriented demonstration
studies, FIRA has been an important complement to the Government's research
and extension services. Initiated in 1973, the demonstration program comprised
39 centers by 1976: 16 for dairy production, 9 for forage investigation,
5 in horticulture and the remaining 9 in crops, irrigation, small animals and
beef, strategically located in the zones of major present or potential produc-
tion throughout the country. A main priority of FIRA's applied research and
demonstration program has been the development of pasture/herd management
systems to achieve improved levels of milk production per ha at costs below



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Number of Subloans, Average Investment and Average Subloan
Estimated Number                    Investment            Lending Program
of Subloans                     Average   Total         Average   Total
Investment Activity                       - - - -  Y e a r - - -   Total                       US $          Subloan   US $
1       2        3                     US$'000 million         US$'000  million
Livestock
Stabled dairy production                500      550      650    1,700            28.3    48.2            24.1      41.0
Grazing           "i                     100     150      250      500             44.5    22.3            37.8     18.9
Dual purpose livestock                1,000   1,150   1,350    3,500               21.2    74.3            18.0     63.1
Beef production                         600      700      800    2,100             22.8    47.9            19.4     40.7
Swine                                   200      250      350      800            20.4    16.3             17.3     13.9
Other livestock                         225      275      300      800             24.0    19.2            20.4      16.3
Subtotal                          2,625   3,075   3,700    9,400                      228.1                    193.9
Crops
Rainfed annual crops                    800      900   1,050    2,750              26.2    72.1            22.2     61.2    a
Tubewell irrigated annual crops           30      40       40       110           231.0    25.4           196.4      21.6
Gravity irrigated    "        "           75     100      125       300           231.0    69.3           196.4      58.9
Walnut groves                             25      25      -          50            85.6      4.3           72.8       3.4
Cacao rehabilitation                      30      35       35       100            48.0      4.8           40.8       4.1
Sugarcane rehabilitation                   3       4        3        10        1,591.3    15.9         1,352.6       13.5
Other crops                              150     200      250      600             25.0    15.0            21.3      12.8
Subtotal                         1,113   1,304   1,503    3,920                      206.8                    175.5
Agroindustries
Cattle slaughterhouse                      2       2      -           4         1,319.7      5.3        1,055.8       4.2
Milk processing plant                      3       4      -           7           310.7      2.2          248.5       1.7
Feed mill                                  2       2      -           4           922.6      3.7          738.1       3.0
Fruit packing plant                        3       3      -           6           552.5      3.3          442.0       2.7
Logging and sawmill operation              2       3      -           5           760.7      3.8          722.7       3.6
Other agroindustries                     100     100      100       300           110.0    33.0            88.0      26.4
Subtotal                           112      114     100       326                     51.3                     41.6
TOTAL                            3,850   4,493   5,303   13,646                      486.2                    410.3
Note:  Figures have been rounded.
March 2, 1978                                                                                                                a



- 23 -
those prevailing in stable-fed dairies. Recent results have been impressive
and are being implemented by farmers on a pilot scale under the ongoing
project, and sublending for such activities would continue under this project
(paragraph 3.08). Continuation of the demonstration program under the Sixth
Project will confirm and extend these results, provide an invaluable training
and demonstration base for both technicians and farmers, and allow further
collection of both physical input/output and financial parameters for program
evaluation. Under the project, 13 existing demonstration centers for the
grazing dairy system will be expanded and two new ones initiated; one existing
beef production demonstration center will be expanded; and five existing forage
demonstration centers will be expanded and two new ones initiated. Items to
be financed under the Bank loan include constructions, pasture establishment,
purchase of cattle, fencing, machinery, equipment and training aids. The Bank
loan will finance 50% of the total non-recurrent cost of the demonstration
centers programs, including the US$1.2 million estimated foreign exchange
component and local costs equivalent to US$0.6 million. Table 25 in Annex 1
summarizes the FIRA demonstration center budget under the proposed project.
3.23      Technical Assistance.  Under the previous and ongoing projects the
technical assistance to project beneficiaries by FIRA personnel and the staff
of the participating banks has proven to be a basic ingredient for project
success. The role of such technical assistance has become increasingly impor-
tant as the volume of sublending to low-income producers has expanded. The
FEGA program (para 2.07) to reimburse participating banks for the staff costs
of providing this technical assistance to low-income producers (LIPs) has been
an appreciable incentive to lend to such groups and will continue to expand
under the proposed project. The cost of providing technical assistance to
low-income producers under the proposed project has been calculated by FIRA
at the rate of approximately 3% p.a. of the outstanding balance of LIP sub-
loans during the three-year disbursement period. These are by and large
recurrent costs. The total outlay is estimated at about US$8.7 million
equivalent during the span of the project. US$400,000 is included in the
Bank loan to cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of providing the
vehicles and training aids for FIRA to expand its technical assistance to
low-income producers under the project.
D. Project Cost
3.24      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at approximately
US$627 million equivalent, of which US$175 million, or 28% represent foreign
exchange requirements.  Baseline project costs were estimated as of June 30,
1977, with a 5% provision for physical contingencies in the various credit
models. Expected international price contingencies were added at the rate of
4.5% for the second half of 1977, 7% for 1978, 6.5% for 1979 and 6% for 1980
and 1981. These price contingencies are based on Bank forecasts for interna-
tional inflation and it has been assumed that the rate of exchange will fluc-
tuate to compensate for any differences between the Mexican rate of inflation
and the international rate of inflation. Cost estimates are summarized in
Table 3.2.



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Total Project Costs"/
% Total        % Foreign
Components                              Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total        Project Cost    Exchange
---   Mex$ millions ------    -------US$ millions------
Farm Investments
Livestock                            3,795.0   1,451.3   5,246.3    165.0         63.1      228.1            45             28
Crops                               3,348.8   1,407.6   4,756.4    145.6          61.2      206.8            41             30
Agroindustries                         878.6      301.3   1,179.9      38.2       13.1       51.3            10             26
Subtotal                          8,022.4   3,160.2  11,182.6    348.8         137.4      486.2           96              28
Training, Demonstration, Technical
Assistance and Monitoring
Training and monitoring programs    144.9          43.7      188.6      6.3        1.9        8.2             2             23     >
Demonstration program                   43.7       23.0       66.7       1.9        1.0        2.9            1             34
Technical assistance program           167.9        9.2      177,.1     7.3        0.4        7.7             1              5
Subtotal                            356.5        75.9     432.4      15.5        3.3       18.8             4             18
Baseline Project Cost                  8,378.9   3,236.1  11,615.0    364.3        140.7      505.0           100             28
Price Contingencies                                                      87.9        34.3     122.2           .26L           X2
Total Project Cost                                                      452.2      175.0      627.2           124             28
1/ Figures have been rounded.
March 29, 1978



- 25 -
E. Financing
3.25      The proposed Bank loan of US$200 million would finance 32% of total
project cost, representing the estimated foreign exchange cost of US$175
million and US$25 million equivalent of local costs (6% of local costs).
Local cost financing from the Bank loan would cover US$21.7 million equiva-
lent, or 9%, of the local costs of on-farm investments carried out by
low-income producers, and US$3.3 million equivalent, or 32% of the local
costs, of the FIRA training and demonstration centers program under the
Project. Sub-borrowers under the lending program of the project would
finance US$97 million equivalent, or 15% of the total project cost, the
participating banks would finance US$86 million equivalent, or 14% of total
project cost, and FIRA would finance US$244 million equivalent or 39% of
the total project cost. In addition, participating banks would provide
short-term loans to project sub-borrowers for necessary working capital.
Table 3.3 summarizes the proposed financing plan.
3.26      The loan would be made to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA), a
Government agency designated to borrow from the Bank, at the current Bank
lending rate at the time of loan approval, for 17 years, including four years
of grace. As under the Fifth Project, NAFINSA would on-lend the loan proceeds
to FIRA on the same terms and conditions as those governing the Bank loan to
NAFINSA, plus a service charge expected to be one-eighth of 1% of IBRD dis-
bursements. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and re-
sponsibility for the payment of interest and other charges in respect of the
Bank loan proceeds used for training, demonstrations, technical assistance
and monitoring. Suitable assurances as to the provisions outlined for proj-
ect financing and availability of necessary working capital in the preceding
paragraph and the on-lending stipulation of this paragraph were obtained dur-
ing negotiations.
F. Procurement
3.27      Since the agricultural lending activities would be implemented over
a three-year period, be widely distributed geographically, cover a variety of
farm/ranch investment activities, and involve a large number of sub-borrowers,
bulk purchasing under ICB would not be feasible. An adequate selection of
machinery, tractors and other agricultural equipment and inputs is available
to sub-borrowers through local and international suppliers and permits can be
obtained to import types of machinery and tractors in the horsepower ranges
required if they are not available ii. Mexico or in the event of a real
scarcity. Tractors up to 125 horsepower are manufactured in Mexico under
franchises from five major international firms and adequate competition and
satisfactory service and maintenance facilities are assured by the range
of choice offered and the extensive network of dealers. Equipment for the
demonstration and technical assistance programs would be procured through the
Guarantor's ordinary procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. The
services of consultants to be financed under the project would be arranged
in consultation with the Bank.



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Total Lending  Participating                                  Total Project
Sub-borrowers       Program           Banks           FIRA          IBRD            Cost
Amount       %      Amount       Amount        %  Amount   %   Amount   %    Amount    %
A. Low-income Producers
Crops                              3.7        5        71.3          7.1        9    32.1   43    32.1   43   75.0         100
Livestock                          4.1        5        79.1          7.9        9    35.6   43    35.6   43   83.2         100
Subtotal                         7.8        5      150.4         15.0         9    67.7   43    67.7   43  158.2        100
B. Other Sub-borrowers
Crop                              36.3       20       145.7         29.1       16    65.3   36    51.3   28  182.0         100
Livestock Development             40.2       20       160.9         32.2       16    72.4   36    56.3   28  201.1         100
Subtotal                        76.5       20       306.6         61.3       16   137.7   36   107.6   28  383.1         100
C.  Agro-industries                      12.6       20        50.0         10.0       16    22.5   36    17.5   28   62.6         100
D. Training, Demonstration,
and Monitoring Programs             -                    -            -                 6.7   50      6.7   50   13.4       100
Technical Assistance                 -                    -            -                 9.4   96      0.5    4    9.9       100
Subtotal                                                                          16.1   68       7.2   32   23.3       100
Total Cost                     96.9       15       507.0         86.3       14   244.0   39   200.0   32  627.2         100
Note: Figures have been rounded.



- 27 -
3.28      As in earlier projects, FIRA would require sub-borrowers to obtain
quotations from several sources of supply, whenever practicable, for goods,
works and imports of breeding livestock to be financed under subloans.
Machinery and equipment for agroindustrial units would be purchased by private
producers or groups of producers. Whenever the cost of a single item of equip-
ment or an assembly delivered by a single manufacturer exceeded US$250,000
equivalent, quotations would be solicited from not less than three suppliers.
Moreover, FIRA would make available to prospective sub-borrowers a list of
suppliers of agroindustrial machinery, including in it those from Bank member
countries and Switzerland as well as their agents or representatives or
partners in Mexico. After the proposed loan is signed, FIRA would advertise
locally and notify all the embassies in Mexico of Bank member countries that
manufacture agroindustrial equipment, and Switzerland of the details of the
agroindustries component of the project, giving broad particulars of the types
of machinery likely to be required. Assurances on these points were obtained
during negotiations.
G. Disbursement
3.29      Bank loan disbursements would be spread over approximately three and
one-half years. The Bank would reimburse FIRA for (a) 50% of its rediscounts
of already disbursed project subloans for low-income producers, (b) 44% of
its rediscounts of already disbursed project subloans for other beneficiaries,
(c) 50% ef its eligible expenditures for the training and demonstration
centers programs, and (d) 100% of its eligible foreign exchange expenditures
for the monitoring and technical assistance programs. Disbursements for the
lending program and works carried out under force account for the training and
demonstration centers program would be made against corresponding certificates
of expenditure, the relevant supporting documentation to be retained with FIRA
and be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of Project super-
vision missions. All other expenditures under the loan will be fully documented
and submitted to the Bank along with the respective withdrawal application. The
estimated phasing of subloan commitments is given in Table 3.1 and the expected
project cash flows for FIRA/FEFA are presented in Table 7.2. The estimated
schedule of disbursements by the Bank is given below, assuming that the date
of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be August, 1978:



- 28 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$'000)
Disbursed during    Cumulative Disbursement at
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter           Quarter                End of Quarter
1979
December 31, 1978                        9                         9
March 31, 1979                           9                        18
June 30, 1979                           10                       28
1980
September 30, 1979                      11                       39
December 31, 1979                       15                        54
March 31, 1980                          16                        70
June 30, 1980                           16                       86
1981
September 30, 1980                      17                      103
December 31, 1980                       21                       124
March 31, 1981                          20                      144
June 30, 1981                           20                      164
1982
September 30, 1981                      16                      180
December 31, 1981                       12                      192
March 31, 1982                           8                      200
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Administration
4.01      As in earlier Bank-financed credit projects, the proposed project
would be carried out by FIRA, which administers FONDO, FEFA and FEGA. The
policies and operations of each trust fund are determined by a technical
committee, which, for FIRA, includes the representatives of th'e Finance and
Agriculture Ministries, the Bank of Mexico, BNCR, private bankers and farmers.
FIRA has established a reputation for efficient organization and technical
competence in the area of term credit based on well designed investment plans.
Personnel, who generally serve all the three funds, number more than 1,176, of
whom 716 are technicians. In addition, 807 technicians in the public banks
and 425 in the private banks have been authorized to approve subloans.
4.02      FIRA's technical assistance has played a major role in the formulation,
appraisal, and supervision of investment plans under the Fifth Project and its
continuance will be crucial for the proposed pioject. FIRA's promotional
functions include the training of staff of banks, demonstrations and monitoring
of project results. FIRA would continue to carry out these responsibilities,
and assurances were obtainLed that, since the functions entail increasing costs,
Government would provide sufficient funJs.



- 29 -
4.03      Apart from loans from the Bank and IDB, FIRA's principal sources of
funds are capital provided by the Government and the Bank of Mexico's short-
term rediscounts. Government equity has increased over the years through the
arrangement by which as external loans are repaid by the Government, the
local currency equivalent is accumulated in these funds as additional equity.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would con-
tinue to augment the resources of FIRA as required and to compensate FIRA,
as well as eligible participating banks, adequately through FEGA assistance
for their expenses for technical assistance for low-income producers.
B. Sublending Policies and Procedures
Beneficiary Categories
4.04      As in the previous projects there would be two groups of bene-
ficiaries, low-income producers (LIPs) and other sub-borrowers. A beneficiary
is considered to be a low-income producer if his main income is derived from
agriculture and if his family's net annual earnings are less than 1,000 times
the relevant regional minimum daily rural wage. At the beginning of 1978,
this wage ranged from Mex$50 (US$2.17) in the poorest states up to Mex$117
(US$5.09) in the northern border states; the unweighted national average
minimum daily rural wage was Mex$79 (US$3.43). This definition of low-income
producer was utilized under the Fourth and Fifth Credit Projects, in the
PIDER I and II rural development programs and in the recently approved
Tropical Agricultural Development Project; it embraces about 80% of the rural
population. Out of the proposed lending program for farm and ranch credit
operations, about one-third would be to low-income producers, as defined in
this paragraph. In view of FIRA's success in mobilizing increased resources
for the low-income producer lending program in recent years, the participation
of these beneficiaries in the lending program of the Sixth Project has been
estimated at 33% (US$150 million), down from the 56% (US$157 million) foreseen
in the Fifth Project. The increased resources to support the FIRA program to
rediscount subloans to LIPs include US$63.4 million from the Bank (para 2.13)
and a recently approved IDB loan for US$60 million; the IDB also recently lent
an additional US$60 million to the Banrural for a LIP lending program.
Suitable assurances regarding the application of this definition of low-income
producers were obtained during negotiations.
Subloan Appraisal and Supervision
4.05      As under earlier Bank-financed projects, subloans would be made on
the basis of farm, ranch and agroindustry development plans appraised by
FIRA technicians or FIRA-approved participating bank technicians. In step
with the progress made by participating banks in improving their technical
staff, FIRA has been simplifying procedures for processing rediscount requests
and progressively delegating subloan approval powers to its own technicians
in the field and to selected bank technicians. Assurances were obtained
that, as in the past, approval of subloans for financing under the project
would be FIRA's responsibility and that FIRA would continue to review its
subloan processing procedures with a view to further simplification and
delegation of powers of approval.



- 30 -
4.06     As in previous projects, banks would meet a set of eligibility
criteria, established by FIRA and acceptable to the Bank, in order to partici-
pate in the project. Participating banks would grant subloans for on-farm
investment and agroindustries and FIRA would rediscount these subloans.
The sublending terms and conditions would be as summarized below:
Annual
Minimum Sub-borrower  Maximum  Rediscount  Minimim
Contribution  Percentage    Rates to  Annual
Subloan    (percentage of cost   of Subloan    Participating  Interest
Sub-borrowers              Amount      of project financed)  Rediscounted  Banks  Rates
1. Low-income sub-borrowers
(a) on-farm investment projects
(i)  low-income sub-borrowers  not more than  3        90       7.50   11.00
who receive institutioirial  350,000 pesos
credit for the first time
(ii)  other low-income  not more than       5          90       10.50   13.50
sub-borrowers        1,000,000 pesos
(b)  agroindustrial projects  not more than    5           90      11.00   14.00
2,500,000 pesos
2.  Other sub-borrowers' on-farm  (i)  not more than  15     90       13.00  16.00
investment projects and     2,500,000 pesos
agroindustrial projects
(ii)  more than 2,500,000  15     80       13.25  16.00
pesos and not more
than 5,000,000 pesos
(iii)  more than 5,000,000  15     70      14.50   17.00
pesos
The rediscount and interest rates specified above represent a substantial
simplification from the more complex schedule applied in the previous proj-
ect in which on-lending rates ranged from 7.6% to 14.5% p.a. The preferen-
tial rates to LIPs, especially those which for the first time are receiving
institutional credit, reflect the Government's policy of favoring this tar-
get group. In view of the Bank's projection of inflation rates in Mexico
declining from the 1977 level of about 20% to around 10% by 1981, many LIP
sub-borrowers and almost all other sub-borrowers would be paying positive
real interest rates over the life of the project.
4.07     In the case of LIPs, sub-borrower contributions to investment cost
could be in the form of labor and material or financial resources. For sub-
loans to groups of LIPs for on-farm development, the upper limits on the
subloan sizes specified in paragraph 4.06 would be determined by dividing
the subloan amount by the number of beneficiaries in the group receiving the
subloan. For other subloans, the maximum subloan amount is independent of
the number of beneficiaries of a given subloan. No subloans for purchase of
breeding livestock will be made to sub-borrowers to finance the replacement
of breeding livestock financed under the Project or prior projects. In the



- 31 -
case of subloans to non-LIP beneficiaries for livestock development, the
purchase of breeding livestock will not, in the aggregate, exceed 53% of the
total investment for livestock development by such beneficiaries financed
under the Project.
4.08       The repayment period for subloans would be based on expected cash
flows and would range from three to 15 years (including grace periods) except
for special cases when, with prior Bank approval, it could go up to 20 years.
Grace periods would be at least one year for development subloans for annual
crop enterprises and at least three years for subloans for perennial crop,
livestock and agroindustrial enterprises. Repayment schedules for the partic-
ipating banks to FIRA would be in line with those of the sub-borrowers.
4.09      Under the Fourth Project, FIRA was required to obtain prior Bank
approval for project subloans in excess of US$400,000 (Mex$5 million).
However, in view of the rising investment costs and the increased size of
individual LIP subloans resulting from group activity, this limit was raised
to US$800,000 million (Mex$10 million) for the Fifth Project. This US$800,000
equivalent free limit would continue to apply in the Sixth Project. FIRA
would continue to limit the borrowing of any beneficiary under the project,
together with the outstanding balance on any earlier subloan to him, not to
exceed Mex$5 million.
4.10      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these lending
terms and conditions and other procedures outlined in paragraphs 4.06 to 4.09
would be observed and that detailed data would be furnished to the Bank for
all subloans to be approved by it.
C. Accounts and Auditing
4.11      The accounting system of FIRA trust funds, FONDO, FEFA and FEGA, is
satisfactory. FIRA would maintain separate project accounts as established
for the preceding project (Loan 1217-ME). FIRA accounts are audited by a unit
directly responsible to the Audit Department of Bank of Mexico and also by an
independent public auditing firm. An audit, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be made of the accounts and financial statements of FONDO, FEFA and FEGA and
the project accounts for each fiscal year in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors
appointed by Bank of Mexico. Certified copies of the statements so audited,
together with the report of the auditors, would be sent to the Bank not later
than three months after the close of the fiscal year. Adequate accounts and
records would also be maintained within all the participating banks so as to
identify all transactions pertaining to the project and periodically Bank
supervision missions would have access to such accounts and any other docu-
ments pertaining to lending operations within the project. Assurances on
these points were obtained during negotiations.



- 32 -
D. Monitoring and Reporting
Monitoring
4.12      The monitoring system initiated in FIRA under the preceding Loans
910-ME and 1217-ME would be strengthened and improved under the proposed
project. Known as the "Sistema de Registros Continuos," this monitoring
program has begun operations with a sample of low-income producers. As
an initial exercise in monitoring project performance, the present system
has provided insights on both the methodological and substantive difficulties
in evaluating a large complex credit program comprising national coverage and
a wide range of investment activities. Data collection on the financial
aspects of project implementation have been monitored closely by FIRA's own
reporting system; bowever, the evaluation of the impact of the credit program
has been difficult to follow at the on-farm level. Enterprises financed
include a variety of mixed activities under widely differing ecological as
well as land tenancy and organizational conditions. The volume of subloans as
well as the rapid disbursement of funds has constrained the collection of
adequate time-series data on subloan impact. On the basis of this experience,
the project monitoring process would be simplified and increasingly focused on
the major issues relating to measuring the impact of FIRA's program as a
whole.
4.13      The basis for subloan monitoring would be the subloan investment
program in which the beneficiary's use of credit and its impact were projected.
From a representative sample, data for the monitoring process under this
project would be gathered by FIRA and particpating bank technical staff in
the course of their normal technical assistance duties. The data to be
gathered would refer to key technical operating parameters highlighted in the
subloan evaluation. These data would be of sufficient quantity and quality to
permit an assessment of the effects of the program, including comparisons with
key project indicators set out in Chapter V. In addition, those organized
farmer groups which are being provided with technical assistance and are
maintaining adequate records would, as a matter of course, also feed infor-
mation into the monitoring system. The monitoring system would be designed
to provide a rapid feedback of information to project beneficiaries and
technical assistance staff. Provision has been made in the loan for funds
to be used to contract up to 12 man/months of short-term technical assistance
to work with the FIRA monitoring unit. In order to ensure progress of the
development of the monitoring system, an increased input of Bank super-
vision time during project implementation would be required. Annually a
report would be submitted to the Bank based upon these monitoring activities,
not more than four months after the end of the Government's fiscal year.
4.14      Reporting.  Quarterly reports summarizing progress in project
execution, subloan disbursements by categories and FIRA rediscounts would be
submitted to the Bank not later than 60 days after the end of each quarter.
Detailed reports, which would include subloan commitments and disbursements



- 33 -
by size, lending categories and regions, number of beneficiaries, bank parti-
cipation in subloan financing and FIRA rediscounts and a summary of reports
submitted to FIRA by participating banks showing overdue payments on out-
standing subloans would be prepared semi-annually and submitted to the Bank
not later than three months after the end of the semester. Together with the
annual audit report to be submitted to the Bank by FIRA (para 4.11), FIRA
would also send the Bank a summary statement of changes in its own staffing
on an overall and regional basis, the throughput of its training programs, a
summary of the activities carried out on its demonstration farms, a review of
the scope and effectiveness of the technical assistance activities to low-
income producers financed through FEGA, and the status of technical staffing
in participating banks. FIRA would also submit to the Bank such other infor-
mation concerning the progress of the project, its accounts and related
statements as the Bank may reasonably request, and, within six months of
the closing date of the Bank Loan, a Project Completion Report prepared
in accordance to guidelines which the Bank would reasonably recommend.
Monitoring and reporting systems to be implemented by FIRA for this project,
along the lines set out in this paragraph and paragraphs 4.12 and 4.13 were
discussed during negotiations.
4.15      The monitoring and reporting functions of the ongoing project are
presently carried out by several divisions within FIRA and the Bank considers
the present distribution of tasks appropriate. However, it has proposed that
the final responsibility for overseeing the preparation and submission of
these various reports to the Bank, as well as coordinating the various
activities relating to the Project, be vested in a senior professional in
the Office of Planning of FIRA.
V. SPECIFICATIONS OF ENTERPRISE MODELS
A.   Livestock Development Models
5.01      Production coefficients for these activities are based on the
lending experience of the on-going project (loan 1217-ME) and are consid-
ered reasonable and attainable under the technical assistance and sub-loan
supervision arrangements envisaged for the proposed project. These coeffi-
cients will constitute the basic data for project monitoring and are sum-
marized in Table 5.1. Weights and prices assumed for the livestock models
appear in Annex 1, Table 26.
B.   Crop Development Models
5.02      Technical coefficients used in the crop models are based on the
operational experience obtained under the on-going FIRA projects. Their
attainment assumes the availability of adequate technical assistance,
application of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides in appropriate quantities



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Production Data for Livestock Models
Type of Livestock Enterprise
Dairy
Item                          Unit      Stabled  Grazing    Dual Purpose    Beef    Swine
Calving
Without project                %          70        70
With project                   %          75        75
Year                                       5         5
Weaning
Without project                %           -         -            60          60
With project                               -         -            65          65
Year                                       -         -             5           5
Lactation jield
Without project             liter        3150      3150          450           -
With project                liter        3600      3500          750           -
Year                                       5         5             5           -
Extraction Rate                                                                       Pig Sales
Without project                x           -         -            17.7        18.0      Per sow/year   12.2
With project                               -         -            23.0        23.9      Per sow/year   14.3
Year                                       -         -             8           7          Year             2
Pasture Productivity-Milk
Without project             liter/ha    6552       6586          125          -
With project                Liter/ha    9000       8355          300          -
Year
Pasture Productivity-Beef                                                             Pork Production
Without project               kg/ha       106       109           57          10       kg/sow/year    886    z
With project                  kg/ha       186       224           93          21       kg/sow/year   1039    X
Year                                        5         5            8           7          Year            2    X
March 2, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Development of Yields
With Project
Without   ------------------------------Year------------------------------------
Project   1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9             10    11    12
Irrigated                  --------------------------(m ton / ha)--------------------------------
Annual crops
Wheat         2.0    2.5  2.8  3.0  3.2   ----------------------------------------------
Beans         0.7    1.1  1.2  1.3  ----------------------------------------------------
Safflower      -      1.1  1.2  1.4  1.5   ----------------------------------------------
Cotton         -      1.6  1.8  2.0  2.1  2.2   ----------------------------------------
Maize         1.6    2.0  2.5  2.8  3.0   -----------------------------------------
Sorghum       1.8    2.8  3.2  3.4  3.5  ---------------------------------------------
Soybeans      1.2    1.2  1.5  1.7  1.9  2.0   ----------------------------------------
Perennial crops
Walnut        1.5      -    -    -   0.3  0.4  0.5  0.7  1.0   1.2   1.3    1.4    1.5
Rainfed
Annual crops
Maize         1.6    1.8  1.9  2.0  2.1   --------------------------   -
Beans         0.6     0.7   0.8    ---------------------------------------  ---- -  ---------
Perennial crops
Sugarcane     42       -    50   75   73   70   50   40   30   50    75    73    70
Cocoa         0.5    0.5  0.7  0.8  0.9   1.0   ---------------------------------------- 
March 29, 1978



- 36 -
AId qualities and, in general, the adoption of a reasonable level of good
husbandry. Yields assumed in preparing the models for agricultural develop-
ment appear in Table 5.2. As in the case of livestock subloans, the project
monitoring unit would focus on these factors in its operations.
VI. PROJECT PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND MARKETING
A.   Production
6.01      Project sub-borrowers would produce a wide range of crops and
livestock products under varying regional conditions. In particular, the
project would generate increases in the production of basic foodgrains,
oilseeds, meat, milk, fruit and nuts. At full development, incremental
project production is estimated as follows:
National         Incremental Production
Product                Production /1       at Full Development
------------- (1,000 m ton) -----------
Maize                    8,349.2                   370.1
Beans                      870.5                    21.2
Cotton                     340.1                    24.2
Soybeans                   603.8                   105.0
Sorghum                  3,795.5                    89.2
Safflower                  526.0                    22.5
Sugarcane               27,990.0                 1,068.0
Walnuts                   n.a.                       2.25
Cocoa                       33.6                     5.0
Milk                     4,800.0                    76.3
Beef                       596.0                    44.5
Pork                       463.0                    38.9
/1   SARH estimates for 1977, except for:  (a) sugar - 1976 estimate of cane
milled; (b) cocoa - estimated 1975 production; and (c) beef and pork -
estimated 1975 production.
Based on average 1977 farmgate prices, the annual value of incremental output
of crops would be approximately Mex$2,688.7 million (US$116.9 million) and
Mex$1,669.5 million (US$73.9 million) for livestock products.
6.02      The domestic demand prospects for project output are generally
favorable, particularly within the context of shortfalls in the production of
major crops experienced in the recent period (para 1.01). Increases in
current agricultural production have not been sufficient to meet the rising
demand of a rapidly increasing population, particularly for basic foodgrains.



- 37 -
B. Demand and Marketing
Beef, Pork and Milk
6.03      Domestic beef prices, which fluctuate freely, have increased from
Mex$6.5 per kg in 1971 to Mex$13.8 per kg in 1977, reflecting the continuing
strong domestic market demand for beef. With rising per capita incomes, a
high income elasticity of demand and rapid population growth, the long-term
prospects for the domestic market are bright. In addition, the improvement
in export prices in US dollar terms for both feeder cattle and boneless beef
in 1976 resulted in a rapid recovery in exports; further price increases
projected by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department, coupled
with the recent devaluation of the peso, indicate excellent prospects for
the export market. Based upon an estimated increase in beef consumption
from 10.0 kg to 11.6 kg per capita from 1977 to 1982, the average annual
increase in cattle population would need to be about 800,000 head, of which
400,000 would be breeding heifers. Based on an estimated annual increase
in per capita pork consumption of 2% up to 1980, hog meat production would
need to expand by approximately 40,000 tons annually.
6.04      Per capita consumption of milk increased at the rate of 5.9%
annually during the 1970-75 period, while production increased at only 4.8%
annually. Domestic demand was thus met through supplementary imports of
milk powder. These imports increased from an average of 24,000 tons annually
during the 1960s to about 56,000 tons annually during the 1970-75 period.
Imports are estimated at 59,700 tons in 1977. With the objective of increasing
the proportion of demand met by domestic production, the Government increased
the price of milk from approximately Mex$3.9 to Mex$4.5 per liter in August
1977. This measure should act as an incentive for additional investment in
dairy production.
Agricultural Products
6.05      Based on the present annual growth rate of Mexico's population of
about 3.3%, an increase in per capita income of about 3% per year, and an
income elasticity of demand of about 0.4, an increase in the demand for
foodstuffs of about 4.5% p.a. can be expected. Maize is the most important
food grain and source of carbohydrate in the Mexican diet, and projections
of annual import needs during the next five years range from 0.5 to 2 million
tons. Incremental project production could substitute for imports otherwise
needed to meet rising domestic demand. During the past decade, the growth
in sugar production has slowed from the 1960-65 rate of 5.8% to only 2.9%.
With rising population and per capita consumption, the result has been a
rapid reduction in Mexico's participation in the export market from
576,000 tons in 1972 to zero in 1976. The on-going Government program for
the rehabilitation of the sugar industry and continued strong demand in the
domestic market for sugar should provide an adequate outlet for incremental
project production.



- 38 -
Present Marketing System
6.06      Government intervention in the marketing system is primarily achieved
through CONASUPO, which administers a farm price support program for basic
grains, state retail distribution outlets for foodstuffs and several major
agroindustries. Agricultural price and marketing programs were instituted in
Mexico in the 1940s with the primary objective of maintaining relatively low
food prices to urban consumers. While the Government has continued to
assign a high priority to this aim, it has increasingly sought to utilize
the farm price support system to provide greater incentives for the production
of basic foodstuffs such as wheat, maize and soybeans. Support prices for
these basic commodities have risen during the 1970-77 period and are generally
in line with world prices, with the exception of maize which is substantially
higher. The CONASUPO system is particularly beneficial to small farmers;
CONASUPO operates a network of rural stores that collect produce and pay for
it promptly. CONASUPO's total storage capacity reached approximately
5.6 million tons in 1977 with a sizeable expansion programmed for the 1978-82
period. It is expected that medium- and commercial-scale farmers will market
a substantial proportion of project ouptut through private market channels,
which are, by and large, adequate, with CONASUPO continuing to play an
important role for small farmers. The marketing of sugar is controlled at
each stage from producer to the consumer by a system of Government organizations
which both regulate and finance sugar production in Mexico. Producers must
sell their cane to the mill in their geographic area and receive credit
through FINASA (paras 2.10-2.11). Under the present system, farmers are paid
on the basis of the average sucrose content of the total cane, millgate.
However, the future program for the improvement of the mill system provides
for payment on the basis of sucrose level to individual farmers. The National
Sugar Producers' Association (UNPASA) is the monopoly purchaser of sugar from
all mills and is responsible for the marketing of the product to end users,
including retailers and industry. UNPASA also operates a transportation and
storage system for the distribution of sugar.
6.07      Milk prices to the farmer, pasteurizing plants and the consumer
are set by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Only about 25% of marketed
milk is pasteurized, with about 4% sold as cheese and 2% as cream or butter.
Marketing channels for milk are adequate although additional processing
capacity is warranted in many urban areas. Project financed investments
under the agroindustrial component should contribute to the development of
this needed capacity. In addition, FIRA-sponsored technical assistance
programs should increase the effective participation of smallholder producers
in the marketing system. Incremental beef and pork production would be
absorbed in the domestic market, except for a small portion of feeder cattle
in the northern region which would be exported. The domestic beef market has
traditionally been dominated by a supply of lean animals in the immediate
areas of consumption, but recently packing plants have begun to market quality
meat, principally through the direct sale of refrigerated meat to supermarkets,
partly as a result of the growing supply of finished cattle from the tropics.
The Federal District, with about 20% of the population of Mexico, now accounts
for about 33% of domestic beef consumption. About 30% of this market is
supplied with mainly refrigerated beef processed in new slaughterhouses
located in the states of Veracruz and Tabasco.



- 39 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Farming/Ranching Operations
7.01      Producer benefits and financial rates of return for the various
livestock and crop lending activities are summarized in Table 7.1. At full
development, the projected family net income for LIPs would range from
US$1,400 equivalent for rainfed annual crops to US$9,500 for walnut groves.
For the livestock component, at full development, the family net income
would range from US$800 equivalent from beef enterprises to US$4,100 equiv-
alent for grazing dairy enterprises for low-income producers. The overall
average annual family income for all participating farms at full development
would be about US$1,300 equivalent for low-income livestock enterprises and
US$2,000 equivalent for low-income crop enterprises. The overall average family
income at full development for non-LIP beneficiaries would be about US$10,000
equivalent for livestock enterprises and US$4,000 for crop enterprises.
7.02      Financial rates of return range from 15% for stabled dairy enter-
prises to 28% for swine enterprises in the livestock component and 17% for
walnut orchards to 32% for cocoa rehabilitation enterprises in the agricul-
tural component. Rates of return for agroindustrial investments range from
15% for fruit packing plants to 34% for feed mills. The financial rates of
return indicate that it would be financially rewarding for farmers to under-
take the investment envisaged in the illustrative models. The relatively
low rate of return for walnuts owes to conservative yield assumptions and
the orchard's long gestation period. The modest rate of return for stabled
dairy production reflects the high cost of purchased concentrates; it is
envisaged that the experience gained with the adoption of the FIRA based
grazing system dairy management should eventually lead to the increased utili-
zation of this technology on dairy units. Details with respect to benefi-
ciary investment contribution, cash flows, and such are in the respective
models in Annex 1.
B. Project Cash Flow
7.03      FEFA would be able to finance about 28% of its rediscounts of the
project lending program from its own resources. Through the first three years
of project implementation and loan disbursements, FEFA would have to borrow
from the Bank of Mexico an amount equal to about 26% of the value of redis-
counted loans; these borrowings would be repaid in full (with interest at
3% p.a.) during the fourth and fifth years of the project. The proposed Bank
loan would finance 46% of the FEFA rediscounts.
7.04      The cost of the Bank loan is estimated to amount to 7.9% p.a.,
assuming interest of 7.5%, 0.75% commitment fee and 0.125% NAFINSA commission.
FEFA's technical, administrative and general expenses were estimated at 4%
p.a. on the outstanding balances of rediscounted loans. The weighted average



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
Activities
Stabled   Grazing    Dual                         Rainfead    Irrigated Alinual        Walnut          Cocoa             Sugarcane
Dairy      Dairy      Purpose   Beef   Swine   Annual               Crops             Orchards   Rehabilitation   Rehabilitation
Item                                                               Cattle                      Crops      Tubewell   Gravity
-                                      -------------US$1000 ----------------------------
Average Investment                            28.3       44.5        21.2    22.8    20.4    26.2            231.0      231.0        85.6           48.0              1,591.3
Average Number of Families per Subloan         5510                            9         4       840010240
LIP                                                                 0        9        4       1404                                 0240
Others                                       1          1           1        1        1        6            10         10           1            10                   100
Average Farm Net Income per FamilIA1
Without Project
LIP                                        1.2        1.3         0.4      0.3       1.2     0.8           0.8        1.3         3.3            2.0                  1.5
Others                                     6.2        6.3         3.7      2.3      4.9      1.6           1.3        2.0        24.3           3.1                   5.1
With Project (full development)
LIP                                        2.5 ___   4.1          0.9      0.8      3.7      1.4           2.8        3.2         9.5            3.7                  3.4
Others                                   12.3        20.6         9.2      6.9    14.6       2.4           6.5        7.8        77.6           5.3                  12.5
Financial Rate of Return,.'                   15         27          18        17       28       25           21          23         17             32                    31
1/ Excludes the contribution of family labor in the livestock models; income figures Include on-farm consumption of output.
2/ Includes incremental herd value in livestock models.
march 27, 1978
Hr



- 41 -
rediscount rate to participating banks (on the basis of 11% for low-income
producers and 16% interest for other sub-borrowers, less the banks' average
margin of 3.0%) would be 11.4%. Therefore, the interest collected on redis-
counts would fully cover the cost to FIRA of borrowed funds and all of FEFA's
project-related expenses, and, in addition there would be a gradual accumula-
tion of surplus which would amount to a total net earning of about Mex$2,385
million (US$104.0 million) by year 17 on project lending only without taking
into consideration profits on relending of funds generated by the project.
Total financing by participating banks would amount to about US$86.0 million
or 17% of the lending program. The FEFA cash flow is presented in Table 7.2.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Economic Benefits
8.01      The proposed project would increase production and thereby help
meet the expanding domestic demand for basic foodstuffs. The additional
production of maize, wheat, oilseeds and milk would reduce the need for
imports and generate foreign exchange savings, while the production of fruits
and live cattle would augment export earnings. Direct beneficiaries of the
project would total some 67,000 families under the livestock and agriculture
components. The project's contribution to employment would be substantial.
At full development, the project would create in the livestock sector an
additional 8,000 full-time jobs and an estimated 4,000 man-years of temporary
employment. The agricultural development component would generate demand for
an estimated 5,000 man-years of hired farm labor, as well as increasing the
employment of family labor, particularly for annual crop production units.
Some 1,000 full-time jobs would be generated by the new investments in agro-
industrial enterprises.
8.02      The project's nonquantifiable benefits would include the continued
institutional development of FIRA, particularly in its training and demonstra-
tion programs which would support the development of new technologies such as
grazing system dairy management. The project would provide for the continued
channelling of essential long-term credit funds to the agricultural sector
and provide assistance to LIPs.
B. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
8.03      The rate of return to the economy has been calculated on the basis
of the investment models presented in Annex 1 for each project component, as
well as for the project as a whole. Key assumptions and adjustments were
as follows:



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICELTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECTED FEfA RECEIPTS AND0 DISBURSEMENTS
During the LIfe, ofthe ,Proposd Loan.
1          2           3           4           59                                                         1X          11          12          13          14           15          16          17       Totnis
H E C E I P T 5:
a.  an-  do Heoloo - Ado-nos 2                           1,060.0    1,000.0        500.0         -           -           -           -           ----------                                                                                                           2,6.
b. Withdranaln fr.. World DBnk
loa   3/                                                  89D.0    1,460.0    1.784,.0        470.                                             -----                                                                                                                4.600.0
Total Borroiogs                                        1,950.0    2,460.0    2,280.0         470.0        -           -           -           ----------                                                                                                           7,160.0
2.  RedO --toi  Co1lleted:
.Lose-boo.. Prodnorsr Snhbnans                                           2 6.7       74.2       182.9       279.1       372.7       353.1       312.7       229.7       194.0       137.6       150.0       164.1       182.2       202.0       157.3        95.7    3,114.0
h. Othnr Dnh-ho..ro.er.' Soblon -..03.9                                              E25.1       309.8       072.4       639.0       618.4       556.4       403.3       339.5       238.4       271.8       309.4        358.9      414.7        338.5       204.5    5,640.0
.Aroinduntials                                                        -           42.3        96.8       142.3      165.1       191.6       117.6         88.0        16.3        14.4         5.6        -----920.0
Sahbtatl                                                  -           70.6       21.6        585.5       893.8    1,176.8    1,163.1    1,026.7          721.0       549.8       390.4       427.4       473.1       541.1       616.7       495.8       300. 2    9,674.0
3.  Ineet  nEdioo--ted labloa-                                  280.5       698.6    1,094.1    1,068.4         998.8      895.8        762.9       629.3      111.4        429.1       367.9       323.6       271.4       222.1       160.9        90.8         34.2    8,806.4
4, ....verenet Rofnharenet  ,r PIR
-trito   and TohnSoal As-lslnne  4                          8R.0       172.0       218.0       117.0        -           -           -                       -------o-                                                                                                   588.0
5.  PEPA'   Seas Hesoross                                       700.0       800.0       900.0        -           -           -           -----                                                       ------                                                               2,400.00
Tota  Eneted Enopa3,016.5    4,161.0    4,733f.7    2,238.9    1,892.6    2,072.6   -1,926.0   -1,656.0   -1,232.4                                                  9-78.9     7-57.9       75-1.0    7-48.9         763.2   _777Z T                    3-34.4  28,628.4
D1I01B1 ROSE M EENTS:
1.. RedO so-and Sobl.an..
.r  -'-'   'd ...                       81.0      1,035.0    1,278.0                                                                                                                     -                                    --                   3,114.0
4. F-foOther Slah-h       ..aron                           1,456.0    1,872.0    2,312.0          -           -            -           -          -----                                                                    ----                                         5,640.0
,. For Agro-indostrtes                                        248.0       360.0      312.0        -           -            -          -----                                                       ------920.0
2.  Tro"ini "De-ostrtion, Te-hni-aI
Asnlaltno                                                   140.0       180.0      016.0        -           -           -            -          ----------                                                                                                              536.0
3.  Dirnot Eapeoes
a.Int te-r and Conoitoent Charge o
World Dank Loan 6/                                          59.0      144.9       254.4       341.0       341.7       314.9       288.1       261.3       234.5       207.7       180.9       154.1       127.3        100.5        73.5        46.3        19.6    3,149.3
4. Innanoton Eaoo deHnfn  Advaoes  32.)            21.2        51.8        71.8       58.3        773         -           -           -           --                      -            -           -           -            -            -          -         225.4
a.FEEA Adioil-trti-e and Gen-ra1
Enpense-  7/                                              108.2       230.9       384.1       374.1       351.0       315.3       268.2       221.7       180.6       RSO.8       129.8       114.2        97.1         78.1        56.1        31.8        12.0    3,097.8
4.  Repayneni  af Bor- ings 8/
a.Ba-   de Menion-                                                                           1,500.0   j1f,060           -           -           -_.         -2--56-0 --0
Total Repeated Dislha rseets                           2,825.4    3,R74.2   4,828.3    2,273.8    1,775.0            630.2       556.3       483.0       415.1       359.5       310.7       268.3       224.4        178.6       130.0        78.1        31.6  19,242.5
C AS5H R ALA NC E
5.f In of Snary Reosipia nos
Dm_ _renni                                                 191.1       287.0       -94.6       -34.9       117.6    1,442.4   1,369.7    1,173.0           817.3       619.4       447.2       482.7       524.5        584.6       647.6       588.5       302.8    9,385.9
6.  C-nlative  Cash Hal ano.  at Years' I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a
End 9/                                                     191.1       478.1       383.5       348.6       466.2    1,908.6    3,278.2    4,451.3    5,268.6    5,888.0    6,335.2    6,817.9    7,342.4    7,927.0    8,574.6    9,083.1    9,385.9e
1L/ Every 12 months RonWrdBnfon  fetvns.6  InnlnddNA 1IN1 Ae o   oharge of 1/8% ne balance of 1an  netetadieg.
2/ N.t  b.,-.i.g   ft.r  FEFA  .... .11  .-i   bIti .... r  ~ ~ ~          ~            ~           ~          PFA' ade tnsirti-s  sp-mee  estinated at 4%. nn etsiading bhalann.s of redisnoeted loan
'3/ A tine  lag ofthrnenonths is aseo-d beit-e  FlEA redisoe-t disb-senents and Word Bank Loan withdrawl.                                            Cent iselndieg LIE's t-nheinal sevE epe....es  hdish  -nId largely be net by FRGA).
4/Inlnde-  relevat  -omoin-t fee, interesr and prinoipal - nith 6 n-thn' line  lag between FlEA disb.rseneet                                    8/ Wnrld EB-k man seithdra..ais  norease. GOnnenna-t's equity In FEFA.  Frinripal nf Basi   an is repaid
and G- -rnen  reinbor.enet.                                                                                                                   - b       - -t
/Projenied Ear initial oPerations nnip (-nlades rn-lending of fn-dn.                  s  footnote 9).9  by. pnmrseent~d....1-                                                         .  .....t.              r   EA.                        h        -dBkl              I
be need for ne-  r-di-a-te  in partinipatig banks.  Interest on eah relending of funds in not abse
onthis sitetnet.
Macoh 28, 1978



- 43 -
(a) Investment and operating costs were calculated using June 1977
prices and were assumed to remain constant in real terms;
(b) Output prices utilized were farmgate prices from the financial
analysis, except for maize, wheat, soybeans, sorghum, cotton
and cocoa, which were recalculated according to international
prices and adjusted for handling, processing and transport
costs to reach a farmgate equivalent. The future prices in
constant terms of these commodities and, in addition, for
beef and sugar were assumed to fluctuate in accordance with
an index of EPD projections for 1978-85. These prices appear
in Annex 1, Table 27;
(c) The shadow wage for labor was estimated at 0.6 times the nominal
wage for all livestock models, the 150 ha rainfed annual crop
model and the cocoa orchard rehabilitation model. In all other
agricultural models, with the exception of the walnut orchard
model in which labor was costed at the nominal wage, a shadow
wage of 0.8 times the nominal wage was utilized as best reflecting
seasonal unemployment and underemployment conditions in these
activities. Labor costs included in the agroindustrial models
were not adjusted since relatively skilled labor would be employed
in these enterprises;
(d) The exchange rate utilized was the average market rate of
Mex$23 = US$1. It is not considered necessary to adjust this
rate for the purpose of shadow-pricing foreign exchange;
(e) Since taxes are transfer payments within the economy,
they were excluded from the economic rate of return
calculations;
(f) Incremental herd values have been credited to the project
at the end of the project period;
(g) Based on FIRA's ongoing operations, incremental administrative
and technical service costs were estimated and charged to the
project at the rate of 6% of the face value of LIPs subloans
and 4% of the outstanding face value of all other subloans
during the loan disbursement period. In addition, the costs
of the additional FIRA technical training and demonstration
programs were charged to the project;
(h) In certain areas in Mexico, the Government has helped finance
some infrastructure development, including land clearing and
irrigation facilities. SARH provided estimates of these
infrastructure costs, based on their ongoing programs; as
these costs are borne by the Government, they have been
excluded from the financial calculations for farm models;
however, these subsidies have been included as a cost in
the economic rate of return calculations; and



- 44 -
(i) All costs and benefits have been phased to reflect the
estimated rate of project implementation.
8.04      Based on these assumptions, the project's economic rate of return
and sensitivity analysis are presented in Table 8.1 and summarized below:
Best Estimate:                       28%
Benefits:                 -5%        25%
-10%       21%
Investment Costs:         +5%        27%
+10%       26%
Operating Costs:          +5%        27%
+10%       25%
The economic rates of return on individual project components were estimated
as follows: Livestock Component, 25%; Crops Component, 35%; and Agroindustries
Component, 17%.
C. Project Risks
8.05      Project success to a large part hinges on the provision of
adequate technical assistance to sub-borrowers. FIRA staff and technical
personnel of the participating banks are fully utilized and the Government
must continue to reinforce the agricultural extension service of the SARH
to raise its effectiveness. The successful implementation of the LIPs com-
ponent will require an intensive commitment and effort on the part of FIRA
and the participating banks. In addition, the Banrural will have to con-
tinue its program strengthening its financial position. On balance, the
experience of previous projects and the known demand for credit suggest an
acceptable level of risk for the project.
n. Environmental Impact
8.06      No net adverse environmental impact is anticipated from the project.
Fertilizers and chemicals for plant and animal protection and weed control to
be utilized under the project are expected to have little effect on the
local ecology, assuming that normal precautions are taken in their appli-
cation. Improved soil and water management techniques promoted by technical
staff participating in the project should lessen deterioration and degradation
of these resources.



ORIICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rcoooic Rate oR RetrnCacuaton
Livestok Comoo....t                           1            2            3         4t        5          6         7         8          9         11         11        12         13         14        15         16        17         18        29         20
1.  Investmen.t and R,placonent                 1,325.1     1,558.1     1,922.6       -          -         -         51.0      173.5     206.1      1 71.3     91.8            -          -               -         -          -         -          -         -
2. 1            O .nre .ool .prtioR Costs         331.0       926.1     1,690.7   2,084.2   2,210.3   2,309.1   2,389.6   2,414.6   2,415.3   2,415.5   2,415.9   2,415.5  -2,415.5   2,415.5   2,415.5   2,415.5   2,415.5   2,415.5   2,4R5.5   2,419.5
3.   ocouta  V.I.. of prodantion                  368.0     1,177.3     2,3350 .6   3,199.1   5,591.1   3,522.4   4,088.6   4,231.9   4,255.4   4,274.1   4,274.1   4,274.1   4,274.1   4,274.1   4,274.1   4,274.1   4,274.1   4,274.1   4,214.1   7,979.1
4.  Terhnical and A6v~itni-tiv- S-rv...            5 3.7      110.7        182.4     179.9      178.0     171.2      262.3     145.4     131.5      115.9      94.5       73.5       38.1      17.7       -         -          -         -          -         -
Not B-nftE                            (1,341.8)   (1,417.6)   (1,465.1)    935.0   1,202.8   1,441.4   1,486.1   1,547.9   1,502.5   1,571.4   1,672.3   1,785.1   1,820.8   1,840.9   1,858.6   1,858.6   1,858.6   1,858.6   1,858.6   5,563.6
Econoic Rate of RetIrn:  25%
A9roLodnoeRosCol o,m                           1           2            3         4         5                    z          8         9          18        11         12        13         14         15        16         17        18         19        20
1.  Invetmet and Raplooe,senr                      85.8       207.2        128.3      -          -         -         10.5       13.2      -          -         -          12.9      16.8       -          -         -          38.3     117.6       36.7 
7.  I_ormetoi Opa.. ting Costs                      -          -           427.1   1,081.9   1,324.0   1,324.0   1,324.0   1,324.0   1,324.8   1,324.0   1,324.8   1,324.8   1.324.0   1,324.0   1,324.0   1,324.0   1,324.0   1,324.0   1,324.0   1,324.0
3.   ntnno  Value of Prod-tian                      -          -          461.1   1,186.2   1,443.2   1,443.2   1,443.2   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.3   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.2   1,419.?
4.  T-nhsina1 ad Adin1strati-e Serices              2.9        10.7         15.6      14.8       12.7      18.7        7.9       5.1       3.8        1.9       8.9        0.2       -         .          -         -          -         -          -          -
Net B nnofit                             (88.33     (217.9)      (109.92     89.8      186.9     108.3      100.8      76.9      92.4       93.3      94.3       82.1       78.4      95.2       98.2      95.2       36.9     122.67      38.8       95.2
Enfno  aea  RaIses,  17%
Ageira1turi1 Omen Conenet                      1           2                      4L        3          6                    8         9          10         11        12         13        14         15        16         17         18        19         20
1.  In-estvet and Rapl--neta                    1,399.6     1,753.9      1,908.1       5.4        0.8       3.8      353.5     468.8     586.3      128.5     189.6       44.7      312.7     340.2      369.9        3,8       4.4        8.0       0.0        0.0
2.  I_ome,atol Operoting Costs                    237.0       682.5      1,068.1   1.189,1   1,289.9   1,201.6   1,193.6   1,192.4   1,301.0   3,309.5   1,214.5   1,215.3   1,215.7   1.215.7   1,215.7   1,215. 7   1,219.3   1,215.7   1,215.7   1,215.7
3.  Intrmmta1 Vau  sO Prd-tt"n                    281.9     1,087.2     2,359.6   3.001.3   3,287.6   3,319.4   3,234.2-  3,498.9   3,598.9   3,676.9   3,723.2   3,73D.0   3,133.4   3,733.4   3.733.4   3,733.4   3,733.4   3,733.4   3,733.4   3,733.6
4.  Toclsinal asd Ad.inittative S-04...            49.2       186.8        163.8     147.2      121.9      92.9       61.3      39.1       17.8       9.9        1.0      -          -.                              .----
Net B.nofit                          (1,403.93   (11.376.0)     (782.42  1,660.6   1,955.8   2,821.1   1,623.4   1,798.6   1,815.8   2,329.8   2,328.1   2,478.0   3,2050.   2,177.5   2,147.8   2,513.9   2,513.9   2,817.7   2,517.7   2,511.7
Enonui. Rate at ROturn:  317.
Tuta1iP-j-nt                              1s          2                      4          5         6                    I          9         10         11        12         13         14        15         16        17         18         19        20
1.  lovet-et and Repl-n-ats                     2,818.5     3,519.2      3,959.0       5.4       -          3.8      415.0     603.3      762.4     299.8      201.4      57.6      328.5      340.2     369.9        3.8      62.7      117.6      56.7       -
2.  Inoesmts1 operating Costs                     568.0     1,528.6      3,185.9   4,354.2   4,744.2   4,835.4   4,989.2   4,931.0   4,940.3   4,940.0   4,954.0   4,955.2   4,955.2   4,955.3   4,955.2   4,955.3   4,955.2   4,939.2   4,933.2   4,953,2
3.  IsteooLa Value of prdontda                   649.9      3.264,5      5,151.3   7,386.6   8,321.9   8,685.0   8,766.0   9,158.0   9,265.5   9,370.2   9,416.5   9,423.3   8,882.6   6,882.6   8,882.6   8,882.6   8,882.6   8,882.6   8,882.6   8,882.6
4. Techninal sed Adimi.ltrativ  Serin..           203.8       342.5        495.7     341,9      312.9     274.8      230.9     189.6      157.1     127,7       96.4      73.7       38.1       17.7      -          -         -          -          -         -
Rat B o.ofir                          (2,932.4)   (3,125.83   (2,489.3)  2,685.1   3,624.8   3,571.8   3,218.9   3,423.9   3,409.7   3,993.7   4,164.7   4,337.2   3,559.8   3,569.9   3,557.5   3,923.6   3,864.)   3,809.8   3,870.7   3,927.4
E.snoic Rate oE Ratt.:  28%
lurch 30, 1978h



- 46 -
IX. SUMMARY OF ASSURANCES OBTAINED AT NEGOTIATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  Government would:
(i)  assume the responsibility for payment of interest and
other charges in respect of the Bank loan proceeds used
by FIRA for training, demonstration, technical assistance
and monitoring under the project (para 3.26);
(ii)  provide FIRA with necessary funds to carry out its
appraisal, supervision, training, demonstration and
monitoring responsibilities under the project
(para 4.02);
(iii) compensate FIRA and eligible participating banks
adequately through FEGA for their expenses for
technical assistance to the LIPs under the project
(para 4.03);
(b)  FIRA would:
(i)  insure that project cost-sharing would be as set out in
para 3.25 and that participating banks would provide short-
term loans to project sub-borrowers for necessary working
capital (para 3.25);
(ii)  insure that procurement would be in accordance with
procedures set out in para 3.28;
(iii) insure that criteria for classifying sub-borrowers as
low-income producers would be as set out in para 4.04;
(iv)  be responsible for approval of subloans for financing
under the project and would continue to review its
subloan processing procedures with a view to further
simplification and delegation of powers of approval
(para 4.05);
(v)  implement the sublending terms and conditions for the
project as set out in paragraphs 4.06 to 4.10; and
(vi)  insure that auditing and accounting practices under the
project would be in accordance with the stipulations of
paragraph 4.11.



- 47 -
9.02      With these assurances, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank Loan to NAFINSA for US$200 million for a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at the rate prevailing at the
time of loan approval.
May 1, 1978






- 48 -
ANNEX 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supporting Tables






MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Principal Indicators of FIRA'S Operations, 1971-1976
1971          1972         1973         1974         1975         1976
Total assets (Mex$ million)                   3,105.8       3,538.1      4,160.9      7,226.7      8,627.9    11,747.3
Discounted total funds (Mex$ million)         1,513.1       1,518.0      2,388.9      4,018.9      4,507.9       6,952.1
Portfolio (Mex$ million)                      2,394.2       2,594.0      3,422.4      5,070.8       6,603.5      9,465.7
Short-term loans                              442.7         421.6        696.0      1,281.3      1,369.4      2,216.6
Medium- and long-term loans                 1,951.5       2,172.4      2,72e.4      3,789.5      5,234.1       7,249.1
Number of participating institutions
in FIRA credit programs                       142           147          165          150           156          155
Private banks                               93            95          102           97            99          103
Financieras                                 42            42           52           41            43           38
Official banks                               7            10           11            12           14           14
Number of borrowers (including
both short- and long-term
loans)
Low-income producers                    201132        222532       37,100       77,159       82,180       91,688
Other                                    6,462         8,124        9,536       13,885       18,923       32,332
Total                                      26,594        30,656       46,636       19,044      101,103      124,020
Number of technical staff                       378            402          457          604          670          715
Source: FIRA
March 2, 1978
- >.



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credits for Agriculture through the Banking System and FIRA Rediscounts
Total Agricultural Credit                                        FIRA Rediscounts
Private and       Public                          Private and                 Public
Year     Mixed Banks        Banks         Total             Mixed Banks                 Banks                  Total
- ------(Mex$ million)------------           Mex$ million          %   Mex$ million       %   Mex$ million        %
1965        3,175           7,200        10,375             521            16.4       -            -         521          5.0
1975       15,073          31,720        46,793           4,402            29.2     2,201         6.9      6,603         14.1
1976       17,878          26,922 1/    44,800            6,310            35.3     3,155        11.8      9,465         21.1      n
1/  BNCR and FINASA.  This figure is based on net amounts of loans as in balance sheet.  Actually, BNCR's share in
agricultural bank credit on December 31, 1976 was about 52% of total credits.
March 2, 1978
fg >c



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Medium- and Long-Term Loans Rediscounted by FIRA, 1971-1978
(Mex$ Millions)
Low-income                     Other
Year                producers                    producers               Total
Mex$ million p              Mex$ million        %       Mex$ million
1971              552.3        63.7            314.4        36.3          866.7
1972              436.0        52.8            389.6        47.2          825.7
1973              744.6        61.4            468.1        38.6        1,212.7
1974            1,133.5        58.7            797.6        41.3        1,931.1
1975            1,363.6        55.4          1,099.3        44.6        2,462.9
1976            1,700.1        49.5          1,734.6        50.5        3,434.7
1977            2,540.2        50.9          2,450.7        49.1        4,990.9
1978            3,453.7 (p)    42.0          4,716.9 (p)    58.0 (p)    8,170.6 (p)
Source: FIRA
(p): projected
March 2, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT'
Conparstiv- Statement of FEFA's Assets and Liabilities 1970 - 1977 1/
(M.eS millions)
Change frot               Chs.gf- rharg Changg from                                                     Chage fo                  Change fro   June 30,   Change from
1970         1971        1970         1972          1971         1973         1972         1974         1973         1975         1974         1976         1975         1977         1976
ASSETS
Invest.ents in Governm-ut Seourities           87.5        276.5        189.0        467.3        190.8         316.6       (150.7)      461.0         144.4        434.2        (26.8)       520.8         86.6        446.5         (74.3)
Short tarn loans and redisrounts                 -            -            -            -            -           11.3         11.3          -          (11.3)         -            -            -            -            -             -
Median and long-tern loans and redin-
a.  IDB  funds                             195.9        235.2         39.3        287.5         52 3        410.2        122.7        588.3        178.1        946.9         358.6      1,603.9        657.0      2,137.6        533.7
b.  IBRD   fuods                         1,207.4      1,518.1        310.7      1,698.4        180:2      l\893.1         194.7     2,518.8        625.7      4,200.6       1,681.8      5,582.5      1,381.9      6,228.3        645.8
c,  Others                                                -            -            -            -          291.3        291.3        570.8        279.5           -         (570.8)         -            -            -             -
Mis-elle.oon Assets                            32.7         37.2          4.5       130.4          93.1        177.3         46.9        831.4        654.1        895.8         64.4        875.9        (19.9)     1,250.9         375.0
Ttal As.st.                              1,523.5      2,067.0        543.5      2,583.6        516.6      3,099.8        516.2      4,970.3      1,870.5      6,477.5      1,507.2       8 583,1      2,105.6    10,063.3       1.480.2
- -==      -  '.    +    35,7%    '           +    25.0X        =       +    20.0%           ==   +    60.3%                +    30.3%                 +    32.5%                +    17.2'
LIABILITIES
Advances fram BANXICO                          516.1        614.5         98.4       567.5         (47.0)       587.5         20.0      1,528.3        940.8      2,100.0        571.7      3,600.0      1,500.0      4,030.0         458.0
other lIabilities                               24.0         33.6          9.6        53.1          19.5         63.5         10.4        146.3         82.8        234.0         87.7        348.8        114.8         236.6       (112.23
Tatal liabilities                         940.1        648.1        108.0        620.6        (27.5)       651.0          30.4     1,674.6      1,023,6      2,334.0        659.4       3 948.8      1,614.8      4,286.6        337.8
+    20.0%/               -     4.3%                +     4.9%                +   157.2%               +   39.3%                 +    69.2%                 +      8.67.
Trust Liabi litien  -nd Gavernnent
Equity
Spooil1 Foed                                   48.3          79.5         31.2        104.7         25.2        130.7         26.0        173.0         42.3        267.4         94.4        382.7        115.3         442.4         59.7
IBRD Ioan funds                               696.7      1,093.6        396.9      1,466.6         373.0     1,816.3         349.7     2,508.1         691.8      3,281.9        773.8      3,219,7        (62.2)    4,267.3        1,047.5
IDB loan afnds                                237.2         244.3          7.1       389.7         145.4       499.2         109.5        610.2        111.0        580.7        (29.5)    1,007.4         426.7       1,035.7         28.3
Accomulated Nnt Incoe                            1.2          1.5          0.3          2.0          0.5          2.7          0.7          4.4          1.7         13.5          9.1         24.5          11.0         31.3          6.8
Total Gaovrnment Equity                       983.4      1,418.9        435.5      1,963.0         544.1     2,448.9         485.9      3,295.7        846.8     4,143.5         847.8      4,634.3        490.8       5,776.7      1,142.3
+    44.3%                +    24.9%                +    24.8%                +    34.5%                +    25.7%                +      11.8%               +    24.6%
TotaI Liabilities and Govr..o nt
Equity                                  1,523.5      2,067.0   +   543.5       2,583.6   +   516.6       3,099.8   +   516.3       4,970.3   + 1,870.4       6,477.5   + 1,507.2        8,583.1   + 2,105.6    10,063.3   + 1,480.2
/ For fiscal years ending De-enber 31, 1970-1976 end s on June 30, 1977.
March 29, 1978



M8XICO
SIXT1H AORICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Coorstati-n Statnennt of FlFA's In.o.e and inepodittars 1970 - 1977 1
1970                  1971                    1972                   1973                   1974                    1975                   1916                    1977
i-                     ManS-T                             M            -$ HIj- si                                   M-$         -           M-$-   -;
INCOME                                   Million       %        Million       7.       Million        %       Million        %        Million       %        Million        %        Million       I.                      7.
I.  Internst from red lOtOouts                                                                                                                                                                                   0        2.
a. ALEM  - IDE flod.                   5.8         7.6         9.4        8.1        11.0         7.0       13.5         7.6        19.8        7.0        33.8         7.8        64.6       11.6       101.0        28.5
b.  IB8D - 1o-n 430-ME                 28,2       36.9        24.4        20.9       29.0        12.7       15.8         8.9        13.7        4.9         5.6         1.3         4.0        0.7                     -
c. IBRD -  no- 610-ME                 38.9        50.4        70.5       60.5        60.6        38.6       50 9        28.7       46.1        16.4        53.2        12.3       47.8         8.5        19.9         5.6
d.  IBRD - Loan 747-ME                  -          -           -          -          28.9        18.4       47.1        26.6        54.3        19.3      103.6        24.0        99.6        17.7       46.3        13.1
e.  TBRD - Le-a 910-ME                  --                                                        -          -           -          31.1       11.0       114.7        26.6       171.4       30.5        77.3        21.8
f.  IBRD - Loan 1217-ME                -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -          67.7        12.0       68.4        19.3
g. IBRD - lean 1110-ME                  -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -          2.8         0.6         8.0         1.4         6.8        2.5
h. oih.r foods                          -          -           _           -          _           _          7.6         4.3        29.1       10.3        33.1         7.7        21.6         3.8        4.2         1.2
Sublotal iotet1st                 72.5       94.9       104.3        89.5      120.5        76.7      134.9        76.1       194.1        66.9      346.8        80.3       484.7        86.2       325.9       92.0
2.  Interest from in-rOtment-               3.3        4.3        11.8        10.1       36.3        23.1       41.8        23.5        83.5       29.6        77.0        17.8        70.5     -  12.5        27.7        7.8
3. Other intcp                             9        .6  0.83       0.5        0.4         0.3         0.2        0.7         0.4        4.2          1.5        8.2         1.9         7.1         1.3        0.6         0.2
4. Tetal inCom                            76.4       100.0       116.6       100.0      157.1       100.0       177.4      100.0       281.8       100.0      432.0       100.0       562.3       100.0       354.2      100.0
EXPENDITURE8
1.  Onnrs-tie SAN2ICO-MAFINSA              1.9         2.5         1.5        1.3         1.8         1.1        2.1         1.2         0.7         0.2        2.4         0.6         1.5         0.3         1.3         0.4
2. a. Interest and chases ALRE-IDB
leans                             5.9         7.8         7.3         6.3        8.8         5.6        13.6        7.7        17.6         6.3        17.8        4.2        16.3         3.0        23.1         6.6
b. Interest and rharges 1B0D 430-ME    16.7       21.9        17.0        14.6       16.9        10.8        14.9        8.4        13.5         4.8        12.3         2.9       10.3         1.9         S.4         1.6
r  Inter st nd th-rga IBRD 610-ME      15.3       20.1        43.2        37.1       59.9        36.3        38.5       33.1        54.3        19.4        49.4        11.7       44           6.1        23.3         6.7
d. Inter-% n  hegsTE  747-M             -          -           .           -         14.9         9.5        39.3       22.3        66.9        23.9        681         16.1       64.8        11.7        31.9         9.2
e. Internst nnd  hsr_ga IBRD 910-ME                                                                                                  5 7         2.0        71.2        16.8       98.9        18.1        49.8        14.3
f. Intcrest end oharge  IBRD 1217-ME    -                      -           -          -                                                                                             D -  -  -  -  -  -  6.1  -  24.2    7.0
g. Other foods                         13.2       17.3        17.3        14.9       22.8        14.6        18.7       10.6        42.0        15.0        60.1        14.2       93.1        16.9        54.8        15.8
Sobtetal Finani-sl E1peoditsres    53.0       69.6        86.3        74.2       125.1       79.9       147.3       83. 3      200.7        71.6       281.3        66.1      330.9        60.0       214.1        61.6
3. Salaries and tnployes bse-filn          16.0       21.1        19.6        16.9       22.6        14.4        24.8       14.0        39.3        14.0       106.8       25.3       185.2        33.6        86.4        24.9
4. Transpesttn sod tre-elling
e.pene                                1.4        2.8         2.4         2.1        3.4         2.3         -           -          -           -           7.8         1.8       15.6         2.8         9.0         2.6
S. Office elnditures Inlading rents         2.5        3.3         2.0         1.7        3.2         2.0         -          -           -           -           -           -          -           -           9.4         2.7
6. Otodies. Imss ilgationn. tnnheital
ansisisi-n                            0.3        0.4         2.7         2.3        0.5         0.3         1.1        0.6         3.0         1.1        25.4         6.0       12.2         2.2         6.9         2.0
7. Mi..ellsfnsoO operating enpeonet        2.9         3.8         3.3         2.8         1.8        1.1         3.6        2.1        37.1        13.3         1.6         0.4        7.4         1.4        19.0         5.3
8.  nepretiuins                                                                                                _                                                                                                2.6         0.7
Sabiotal - Adni stratton  dtE
General lpenditot-s              23.1        30.4       30.0        25.8        31.5        20.1       29.5        16.7        7          28.          I          33.5       220.4        40.0       133.3        38.4
Tetal EIp-n dittres                  _76.1       122.2      '12.2       180_    1L_            122.2       i_o-        1o          -2-02  01  122.2       1222        12.         214l  34.               LiA        122.2
NiT INCOME 2/                             o.;3         0.          0           0;.3      0.1         0.3         0.4        0.3 1;.                  0.8         9.1         2.1        11. 2.0 6.8                          1.9 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..;   .. 2.
I/ For fin-oI years ending Deesmbet 31, 1970-1976  nd fot half year ending J-ns 30, 1977
2/ Net lon.-  np..s.ed In . relates to total ine-ae.
Marth 2, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CEEDIT PROJwCT
Co-solidat-d C-p-ararlv- Statement of FONDO/FEFA's Intone tnd Expenditures 1970 - 1977 I/
1970                      1971                       1972                        1973                      1974                       1975                      1976                        1977
ixxt                      04                         0cn$                          onHM                    Meo$                       Mrn$                      Mex$                         Me.2$
million         X.         millino         %         miltli.n         _          Million         %         Mililn           %         Millin MX                  million          %          Million         7
INCOME
1. Interest from redisroonts
.  ALORO - AIO  foods                         7.8          5.9          6.3           3.4          6.2           2.8          5.5           2.2          4.9           1.1          4.2           0.7           3.5          0.4           2.6           0.5
b. ALPlO - IDB fOnds                          5.8          4.5           9.4          5.1         11.0           4.8          13.5          5.3         19.8           4.5         33.8           5.2          64.6           7.3        101.0          17.7
-. TBRD - Aosisted loans                    66.7          50.8         94.9          51.2        109.5          48.4        113.8          44.8        145.2          33.1        279.9          43.2         398.5         45.1         220.7          38.6
d. Other foods                              35.6          27.1         40.8          22.0         40.2          17.8         54.7          21.5        129.0          29.4        169.3          26.1         241.7         27.4         188.5          33.0
Subtotel iet-r-nt me Iomns              115.9          88.3        151.4         81.7         166.9          73.8        187.5          73.8        298.9         68.1         487.2          75.2        708.3          80.3        512.8          89.8
2.  Interest frot itnesn-tn-                     14.3         10.9          32.5         17.5          56.9         25.1          54.7         21.5         109.7         25.0          98.7         15.2          90.1          10.2         36.3           6.4
3.  Other intE                                    1.0          0.8           1.3          0.8           2.4          1.1          11.8          4.7          30.6          6.9          62.3           9.6         84.7           9.6         22.1           3.8
4.  Tet.1 intone                                131.2        100.0         185.2        100.0         226.2        100.0         254.0        100.0         439.2        100.0         648.2        100.0         883.1         100.0        571.2         100.0
EXPENDIsTURES
1.  H--ntsie  BANXICO-NAFINSA                     3.1          2.4           2.4          1.3           2.7          1.2           3.0          1.2           1.1          0.3           3.1           0.5          2.2           0.2          3.5           0.8
2. o. Interest end rharge  ALRP0O-AIt            11.5          8.8          11.1          6.0          11.1          4.9          10.1          4.0           9.6          2.2           9.1           1.4          8.6           1.0          4.0           0.8
b. Interest cod rhargon ALPgO_-ID              5.9          4.5           7.3          4.0           8.8          3.9          13.7          5.4          17.7          4.0          17.8          2.8          16.3           1.9         23.1           5.2
d: IOter     end oh-rges IBRO-L-o             32.0         24.7         60.2          32.6         91.7          40.7        112.8          44.8        140.4          32.2        201.0          31.6         220.0          25.3        134.6          30.2
7 d. Other f-d                                13.2         10.1         27.1          14.7         32.3          14.3         26.7          10.6         80.6          18.5        105.1          16.6         146.6          16.9         88.2          19.8
S.btotel - Fin-s1el    denrdi--s         65.7          50.5        108.1          58.6        146.6          65.0        166.3          66.0        249.3          57.2        336.1          52.9        393.7          45.3         253.4          56.8
3.  Salaries cod soplyoso' benefits             42.8         32.9          50.9         27.6          58.8         26.1          55.8         22.2         110.0         25.2         166.6         26.2         211.9          24.4        128.2          28.7
4.  Tronoport ed trvellt8g 00p9..5-              3.5           2.7          3.8          2.1           5.6           2.5          6.0          2.4           9.0          2.1          23.0           3.6         45.3           5.2          14.0          3.1
5.  Office eojsedit-rso in-lodiog rents           4.8          3.7           7.6          4.1           6.9          3.1           9.8          3.9          12.9          3.0          18.8           3.0         22.9           2.6         14.8           3.3
6.  Stodies-,                    -hetogetions, terhaical
... i--anc                                 0.6           0.5          2.8           1.5          0.6          0.3           1.1           0.4          3.0           0.7         25.4           4.0          12.2          1.4           6.9           1.6
7.  Mi.s.ll.oeon operating eoeee                 11.1          8.5           8.4          4.6           4.2          1.9           8.4          3.3         46.7          10.7          11.2           1.8         11.8           1.4         23.0           5.2
8.  lepr-tia-ion                                  1.6          1.2           2.7          1.5           2.4          1.1           4.5           1.8          4.9          1.1           5.1           0.8          6.7           0.8           3.7          0.8
9.  enernes                                       _            -                    -                   _            -             _            _             _            _            49.0           7.7        164.3          18.9           2.1  2/      0.5
10. Sobtotal - Adai. - General Etp.              64.4         49.5          76.2         41.4          78.5         35.0          85.6         34.0         186.5         42.8         299.1         47.1         475.1          54.7        192.7          43.2
Total enp.edilreN                        l1            122.2        ILl           A           ZzL         122,2         11.2       io22          aLo         22&2         u1.2          22.2          MA          2O.2         222           .lo-0
NEI INCOME 3/                                     1.1          0.8           0.9          0.5           1.1          0.5           2.1          0.8           3.4          0.8          13.0           2.0         14.3           1.6         125.1  2/    21.9
Cont aalyeit p-r M..$ of IOme po-tfolio 17.2
Averege -oeot of loan p-rtftlio
(M.o$  mitoos)                         0850_                    2-14.4_                     M2ili.                     4.22_6                     4_12.1                   2L                         7.729
Flnenolil Efpeo-es                                      3.82                       4.90                       5.67                       5.64                       5.75                       5.86                        5.07
Profess-oe-l Sernteeo                                   1.57                       2.56                       2.14                       1.87                       3.36                       3.26                        2.97
Adnliitrati-e Service.                                  1.64                       1.09                       1.06                       1.30                       0.99                       1.14                        1.07
Total                                      7,03                       8.55                       d.87                        8.81                      10.18                      10.26                        9.1
1/  For fi.tl  eersr  nding D-eaber 31, 1970-1976 end for half year -nditg Jrne 30, 1977.
V   beo-re trenf-ere to teerva fonds.
3/  Net iope ospresed in 7 re-ltos tn total Intone.
Meteh 2, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Stabled Dairy Production (30 ha)
Cash Flow Projection
(Mex$ '000)
W I T 'd P R O J E C T
Without    _- -------------------------__---____- ___ ---__--_----_-___---------- --_ _Years s---_----- -- -------_-- ---- --_ _----_--------__ - ----- - - -------------------------_
Project       1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9          10        11         12        13        14         15
1. Other Beoeffciariee
Cash Inflow
Sales                              775.3      994.8   1,163.8   1,261.6   1,281.6   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3
Long-term Loa-                                             -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -
Short-term Credit                    -         89.1      97.0      100.4     101.8     103.8     104.3    .104.3      104.3     104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3
Incremental Herd Value                               -                         -         -                    -              - _-.-z                                                          14B.O
Total Inflow                     775.3    1,605.5   1,260.8   1,362.0   1,383.4   1,445.1   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,593.6
Cash Outflow
Investment and Replacement           -        652.0       -          -         -         -         -        45.0       45.0      45.0       -          -         -         -          -         -
Cash Operating Expenses            632.3      890.9     970.1   1,003.9   1,017.5   1,038.2   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4
(excluding family labor)
Interest:
Long-term Loan (16%)               -         83.5      83.5      83.5       83.5      80.7      77.6      73.9       69.7      64.7      59.2       52.6      44.9      36.1      25.8       13.9
Short-term Credit (15%)            -         13.4      14.6       15.1      15.3      15.6      15.7      15.7       15.7      15.7      15.7       15.7      15.7      15.7       15.7      15.7
Principal:
Lmg-term  Loan                     -          -         -          -        16.9      19.6      22.8      26.4       30.6      35.5      41.2       47.8      55.5      64.3       74.6      86.4
Short-term Credit                  -          -        89.1       97.0     100.4     101.8     103.8    104.3       104.3     104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3
Total Outflow                    632.3    1,639.8   1,157.3   1,199.5   1,233.6   1,255.9   1,263.3   1,308.7   1,308.7   1,308.6   1,263.8   1,263.8   1,263.8   1,263.8   1,263.8   1,263.7
Cash Balance                       143.0      (34.3)    103.5      162.5     149.8     189.2    182.3       136.9     136.9     137.0      181.8     181.8     181.8      181.8     181.8     329.9
Cumulative Cash Balance                       (34.3)     69.2      231.7     381.5     570.7     753.0    889.9   1,026.8   1,163.8   1,345.6   1,527.4   1,709.2   1,891.0   2,072.8   2,402.7
W I T B  P R O J E C T
Without                -            ------Years_-- - - - - - - -
Project       1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8          9         10         11        12        13        14         15
2. LIPS
Cash Inflow
Sales         2/                   775.3      994.8   1,163.8   1,261.6   1,281.6   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3   1,341.3
Long-term Loan-                      -        619.4        -         -         -         -         -          -         .         -          -         -         -          -         -          -
Short-term Credit                    -         89.1      97.0      100.4     101.8     103.8     104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3     104.3
Incremental Herd Value               -          -         -          -         -         -         -         -          -                                                                     148d0
Total Inflow                     775.3    1,703.3   1,260.8   1,362.0   1,383.4   1,445.1   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,445.6   1,593.6
Cash Outflow
Investment and Replacement           -        652.0       -          -         -         .         -        45.0       45.0      45.0       -          -         -          -
Cash Operating Expenses            632.3      890.0     970.1   1,003.9   1,017.5   1,038.2   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4   1,043.4
(excluding family Ibor)
Interest.
Long-term Loan (Ill)               -         68.1      68.1       68.1      68.1      65.1      61.8      58.1       54.0      49.5      44.4       38.8      32.6       25.7      18.0       9L5
Short-term Credit (157.)           -         13.4      14.6       15.1      15.3      15.6      15.7      15.7       15.7      15.7      15.7       15.7      15.7       15.7      15.7      15.7
Principal:
Long-term Loan                     -          -         -          -        27.3      30.3      33.6      37.3       41.4      46.0      51.0       56.6      62.8       69.8      77.4      85.9
Short-term  Credit                 -          -        89.1       97.0     100.4     101.8     103.8     104.3      104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3     104.3      104.3     104.3     104.3
Total Outflow                    632.3    1,623.5  1,141.9   1,184.1   1,228.6   1,251.0   1,258.3   1,303.8   1,303.8   1,303.9   1,258.8   1,258.8   1,258.8   1,258.9   1,258.8   1,258.8
Cash Balance                       143.0       79.8     118.9      177.9     154.8     194.1    187.3       141.8     141.8     141.7      186.8     186.8      186.8     186.7     186.8      334.8
Cumulative Cash Balance                        79.8     198.7      376.6     531.4     725.5     912.8   1,054.6   1,196.4   1,338.1   1,524.9   1,711.7   1,898.5   2,085.2   2,272.0   2,606.8
Financial Rate of Return:  15.
1/ 807' of investment coat.
2/ 95% of investment cost.
Small differencee due to rounding.
March 1, 1978.



mEXICo
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Grazing Dairy Production (31 ha
Cash Plow Proeiction
(eS' 000)
W I T H P R O J E C T
Without       -----------------------------------------------------------------Y.e   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Project         1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8          9         10         11         12        13         14         15
1. Other Oeneflcicriae
Caoh Inflow
Sales          1/                   686.1       916.4   1,164.6   1,283.5   1,310.2   1,352.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9
Lcng-ter-  Lo-n-                      -         819.2        -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -
Short-torn Credit                     -          76.5       82.9       85.4      87.2       88.9      87.6       87.6       87.6      87.6       87.6       87.6       87.6      87.6       87.6       87.6
Increnentol herd Value               -            -          -          -         -          -         -          -       -          -          -            -        _          _           -        253.0
Total Inflow                     686.1      1,812.1   1,247.5   1,368.9   1,397.4   1,441.8   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,703.5
Cash Ovtfl
Inveitnent  nd Replacement           -        1,025.0        -          -         -          -         -          -        115.0     115.0        -          -          -         -          -          -
Cooh Operoting Expeneeo             541.3       764.6      828.7      854.0     871.9      889.4     876.2      876.Z      876.2      876.2     876.2      876.2      876.2     876.2      876.2      816.2
(o.cluding family lahor)
Internlt:
Long-tern Loan (16%)               -          131.1      131.1      131.1     131.1      126.8     121.9      116.2      109.6     101.9       92.9       82.6       70.6      56.6       40.5       21.2
Short-torn Credit (15%)            -           11.5       12.4       12.8      13.1       13.3      13.1       13.1       13.1       13.1      13.1       13.1       13.1      13.1       13.1       13.1
Principal:
Lang.tern Loan                     -            -          -          -        26.6       30.8      35.7       41.5       48.1      55.8       64.7       75.1       87.1     101.0      117.1      135.9
Short-tern Credit                  -            -         76.5       82.9      85.4       87.2      88.9       87.6       87.6      87.6       87.6       87.6       87.6      87.6       87.6       87.6
Total Outflow                    541.3      1,932.2   1,048.7   1,080.8   1,128.1   1,147.5   1,135.8   1,134.6   1,249.6   1,249.6   1,134.5   1,134.6   1,134.6   1,134.5   1,134.5   1,134.0
Caoh Balance                        144.8      (120.1)    198.8       288.1     269.3      294.3      314.7     315.9      200.9      200.9     316.0      315.9      315.9      316.0     316.0      569.5
Cunulative Cooh Balance                        (120.1)      78.7      366.8     636.1      930.4   1,245.1   1,561.0   1,761.9   1,962.8   2,278.8   2,594.7   2,910.6   3,226.6   3,542.6   4,112.1
W I T H  P R O J E C T
Withot       ----------------------------------------------------------------hY-ea-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Proiect         1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8          9          10        11         12         13         14        15
2. LIPS
Cash Inflow
Salon          2/                   686.1       916.4   1,164.6   1,283.5   1,310.2   1,352.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9   1,362.9
Long-tern Loan-                       -         972.8        -          _         -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -
Short-torn Credit                     -          76.5       82.9       85.4      87.2       88.9       87.6      87.6       87.6       87.6      87.6       87.6       87.6       87.6      87.6       87.6
Incromentl Herd Value                -           -          -          -         -          -          -       -          -         -            -        -            -          -         -        253.0
Total Inflow                     686.1      1,965.7   1,247.5   1,368.9   1,397.4   1,441.8   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,450.5   1,703.5
Cash Outflow
Invoastet and Replacement             -       1,025.0        -          -         -          -          -         -        115.0      115.0       -          -          -          -         -          -
Cooh Operating Epnen...             541.3        764.6     828.7      854.0     871.9      889.4      876.2     876.2      876.2      876.2      876.2     876.2      876.2      876.2      876.2     876.2
(oxcluding family laIbn)
Interest:
Long-tern Loam (1171               -          107.0      107.0      107.0     107.0      102.3      97.1       91.3       84.8       77.7      69.7       60.9       51.1       40.3      28.2       14.9
Short-tern Credit (15%)            -           11.5       12.4       12.8      13.1       13.3       13.1      13.1       13.1       13.1       13.1      13.1       13.1       13.1       13.1      13.1
Principal:
Long-term Loon                      -           -          -          -        42.8       47.5       52.8      58.6       65.0       72.2      80.1       88.9       98.7      109.6      121.6     135.0
Short-term  Credit                  -           -         76.5       82.9      85.4       87.2       88.9      87.6       87.6       87.6      87.6       87.6       87.6       87.6      87.6       87.6
Total Outflow                    541.3      1,908.1   1,024.6   1,056.7   1,120.2   1,139.7   1,128.1   1,126.8   1,241.7   1,241.8   1,126.7   1,126.7   1,126.7   1,126.8   1,126.7   1,126.8
Canh Ba1ance                        144.8        57.6      222.9      312.2     277.2      302.1      322.4     323.7      208.8      208.7      323.8     323.8      323.8      323.7      323.8     576.7
Cumulative Cooh Balance                          57.6      280.5      592.7      869.9   1,172.0   1,494.4   1,818.1   2,026.9   2,235.6   2,559.4   2,883.2   3,207.0   3,530.7   3,854.5   4,431.2
Fina-cial Rate of Return: 277.
1/ 80% of invotetnt co. t.
2/ 95% of loveetmeot Coat.
Small differencen duo to rounding.
Mir-u 1, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Dual Purpose Livestock (120 ha)
Cash Flow Proiection
(Hex$ '000)
W I T H P R O J E C T
Without     ____________ear___________________---------------_-----------Years -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Project       1         2        3         4         5        6         7         8        9         10        11        12       13        14        15
1. Other Beneficiaries
Cash Inflow
Sales                           205.0       290.2    299.0    325.2    408.3    402.4    412.9    412.9    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4
Long-term Loan-                   -         390.4      -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -                   -
Incremental Herd Value m                               -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        _         -         _         -       269.5
Total Inflow                   205.0      680.6    299.0    325.2    408.3    402.4    412.9    412.9    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    692.9
Cash Outflow
Investment and Replacement        _         488.0      -         -         -        -         -        20.0     25.0      25.0       -         -                  -         -         -
Cash Operating Expenses         119.4       163.1    193.8    205.7    210.2    210.9    211.2    211.5    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6
(excluding family labor)
Interest:
Long-term Loan (16.)            -          62.5      62.5     62.5      62.5      60.4     58.1      55.4      52.2     48.5      44.3      39.3      33.6     27.0      19.3      10.3
Principal:
Long_term Loan                  _         _ _                           12.7      14.7     17.0      19.8      22.9      26.6     30.8      35.8      41.5      48.1     55.8      64.7
Total Outflow                  119.4      713.6    256.3    268.2    285.4    286.0    286.3    306.7    311.7    311.7    286.7    286.7    286.7    286.7    286.7    286.6
Cash Balance                     85.6       (33.0)    42.7      57.0    12^.9    116.4    126.6    106.2    111.7    111.7    136.7    136.7    136.7    136.7    136.7    406.3
Cuanulative Cash Balance          -         (33.0)     9.7      66.7    189.6    306.0    432.6    538.8    650.5    762.2    898.9  1,035.6  1,172.3  1,309.0  1,445.7   1,852.0
W I T H PR O J E C T
without      - ---------------------------------------------------------------- Yearr-------------------- --------------------w------------------------- --------- 
Prolect       1         2        3         4         5        6         7         8        9         10        11        12        13       14        15       v
2. LIPS
Cash Inf lwo
Sales        21                 205.0       290.2    299.0    325.2    408.3    402.4    412.9    412.9    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4
Long-term Lo                      -         463.6       -        .         .         .        .         .         .        .         .         .         -
Incremental Herd Value            -           _        _         _         _        _         _         -        -         -         -         -         -        -         -       269.5
Total Inflow                   205.0      753.8    299.0    325.2    408.3    402.4    412.9    412.9    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    423.4    692.4
Cash Outflow
Investment and Replacement        -         488.0      -         -         -         -        -        20.0      25.0     25.0       -         .         .        -         -
Cash Operating Expenses         119.4       163.1    193.8    205.7    210.2    210.9    211.2    211.5    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6    211.6
(excluding family labor)
Interest:
Long-term Loan (117)            -          51.0      51.0     51.0      51.0      48.8     46.3      43.5      40.4      37.0     33.2      29.0      24.4      19.2      13.5      7.0
Principal:
Long-term Loan                  -           -         -        -        20.4      22.7      25.2     27.9      31.0      34.4     38.2      42.4      47.0      52.2      58.0      64.2
Total Outflow                  119.4      702.1    244.8    256.7    281.6    282.4    282.7    302.9    308.0          308.0    283.0    283.0    283.0    283.0    283.1    282.8
Cash Balance                     85.6        51.7      54.2     68.5    126.7    120.0    130.2    110.0    115.4    115.4    140.4    140.4    140.4    140.4    140.3    409.7
Cumulative Cash Balance                      51.7    105.9    174.7    301.1    421.1    551.3    661.3    776.7    892.1  1,032.5  1,172.9  1,313.3  1,453.7  1,594.0  2,003.7
Financial Rate of Return: 187
1/ 80% of investment cost.
2 95% of investment cost.
Small differences due to rounding.
March 1, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Production Model (700 ha Raoch)
Cash Flow Projection
(enS '5000)
W I T H P R O J E C T
Project         1          2         3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11         12         13         14        15
1. Other Beneliciacien
Cash Inflow
lies           1/                   146.0        326.2      312.4      319.2      398.2      486.7      549.7     560.7      560.7      560.7      560.7      560.7      560.7      560.7      560.7      560.7
Long-tern Loes                        -          420.0        -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Short-tere Credit                     -          107.3      127.9      128.8      130.3      164.3      187.0     187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.8      187.1      187.1      187.1
Incremental Herd Value                -            -          -                                --                                                          -                         --          -        384.o
Total Inflow                      146.0        853.5      440.3      448.0      528.5      651.0      736.7     747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8   1,131.8
Cash Outflow
Inosat-est and Replaceusat            -          525.0        -          -          -          -          -        10.0       11.0        -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Cash Operating Elpe.cee              92.3        214.6      255.7      257.6      260.6      328.5      374.1     374.2      374.2      374.2      374.2      374.2      374.2      374.2      374.2      374.2
(excluding fouily labor)
Inter et:
Long-term Loan (167.)               -           67.2       67.2       67.2       67.2       65.0       62.5      59.6       56.2       52.2       47.6       42.3       36.2       29.0       20.8       11.2
ShIrt-tern Credit (15%)             -           16.1       19.2       19.3       19.5       24.6      28.0       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1
Principal:
Long-termLoen                       -            -          -          -         13.6       15.8       18.3      21.3       24.6       28.6       33.2       38.5       44.6       51.8       60.0       69.7
Short-term  Credit                  -            -        107.3      129.7      128.8      130.3     164.3      187.0      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1
Total Outflow                      92.3        822.9      449.4      473.8      489.7      564.2      647.2     680.2      681.2      670.2      670.2      670.2      670.2      670.2      670.2      670.3
Caah Balance                         53.7         30.6       (9.1)      25.8       38.8       86.8       89.5      67.6       66.6       77.6       77.6       77.6       77.6       77.6       77.6      461.5
Csulatiwe Cash Balance                           30.6       21.5      47.3       86.1      172.9      262.4      330.0      396.6      474.2     551.8       629.4      707.0      184.6      862.2   1,323.7
WI T    P p R O JE C T
Without      ------------------~~~------------------------------------------------Y.--------------------------------------------------_----------__-___--_______        -_
Project        1          2         3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         11         12         13         14         15
2. LIPS
Cash Inflow
Saes           2                    146.0        326.2      312.4      319.2      398.2      486.7      549.7     560.7      560.7      560.7      560.7      560.7      56b.7      560.7      560.7      560.7
Lang-tern Loas-                       -          499.0        -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -
Short-tern Credit                     -          107.3      127.9      128.8      130.3      164.3      187.0     187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1
Increnestal Herd Value                -            -          -          -          -          -          _         _          -          -          -          -          -          -          -        384.0
Total Inflow                      146.0        932.5      440.3      448.0      528.5      651.0      736.7     747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8      747.8   1,131.8
Cash Outfiow
Invast-ent and Replacement            -          525.0        -          -          -          -          -        10.0       11.0        -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Cash Operating Enpe.ese              92.3        214.6      255.7      257.6      260.6      328.5      374.1      374.2      374.2     374.2      374.2      374.2       374.2      374.2      374.2      374.2
(encludieg family labr-)
Interest:
Long-teem Loan (11%)                -           54.9       54.9       54.9       54.9       52.5       49.8      46.8       43.5       39.8       35.8       31.3       26.2        20.7       14.5        7.5
Short-tern  Credit (15%)            -           16.1       19.2       19.3       19.5       24.6       28.0      28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1       28.1
Principal:
Long-tern Loan                      -            -          -          -         22.0       24.4       27.1       30.1       33.4      37.0       41.1       45.6       50.6        56.2       62.4      69.1
Short-tenm Credit                  _             -        107.3      129.7      128.8      130.3      164.3     187.0      187.1      187.1      187.1      187.1      187. 1     1871       187.1      187.1          o'
Total Outflow                      92.3        810.6      437.1      461.5      485.8      560.3      643.3     676.2      677.3      666.2      666.3      666.3      666.2       666.3     666.3      666.0
Cash Balance                         53.7        121.9        3.2       13.5      42.7        90.7       93.4       71.6       70.5       81.6      81.5       81.5        81.6       81.5      81.5      465.8
Cueuletiwe Cash Balance                          121.9      125.1      138.6     181.3      272.0      365.4      437.0      507.5      589.1      670.6      752.1      833.7      915.2      996.7   1,462.5
Financial Rate of Retrn: 17%
1/ 80/ of inve-teent costs.
2/ 95% of invest-eet costs.
Small differescec due to -ounding.
March 1, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pig Production (98 Sow Unit)
Cash Flow Projection
(He.S '000)
W I T H P R O J E C T
Without       ----------------------------------------------------------------Ye-r-_--___________________________________________________________________-
Project          1            2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9             10           11           12
1. Other Ben-ficiaries
Cash Inflow
SLleo  -        /                    1,412.2       1,616.8      2,707.0       2,707.9     2,707.9       2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9       2,707.9
Long-term Loan-                          -            374.9                                                                                                                                 
Short-torn Credit                        -            103.5          -            -            -           :             -            -            -            -            -             -            -
Incremental Herd Value                   -             -            -            -             -            -            -            -            -            -            -           _            433.3
Total Inflov                       1,412.2       2,095.2      2,707.0      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9       2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9       3,141.2
Canh Outfltoo
Inveatment and Replocement               -           468.6           -            -            -            -            -           12.6          -            -
Cash Operating Eapen.e.               1,299.0       1,727.4     2,358.0      2,371.0      2,371.0       2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0       2,371.0      2,371.0
(eaciuding family labor)
Internest,
Long-tern Loon (16%)                   -            60.0         60.0          60.0         60.0         56.6         52.6         48.0         42.6         36.4         29.2          20.9         11.2
Short-tern Credit (15%)                             15.5           -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -
Principal:
Long-term Loan                         -              -            -            -           21.4         24.8         28.8         33.4         38.8         45.0         52.2          60.5         70.0
Short-tern Credit                      -              -         103.5           ------                                                                                     -             -          -
Total Outflow                      1,299.0       2,271.5      2,521.5       2,431.0     2,45214       2,452.4      2,452.4      2,465.0      2,452.4      2,452.4      2,452.4      2,452.4       2,452.2
Cash Balance                            113.2       (176.3)        185.5        276.9        255.5        25505        255.5        242.9        255.5        255.5         255.5        255.5        689.0
Cumulotive Cash Balance                             (176.3)          9.2        286.1        541,6        797.1      1,052.6      1,295.5      1,551.0      1,806.5       2,062.0      2,317.5      3,006.5
W I T H  P R O J E C T
WithoutT e---------------------------Years-----------------------------
Project          1            2            3            4            5            6             7            8            9            10           11           12
2.  LIPS
Cash Infiov
Sales          2/                    1,412.2        1,616.8     2,707.0       2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707,9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9       2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9
Long-tere Lo-                             -           445.4          -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -            -            -
Short-toer  Credit                       -            103.5                                                                                                                                             -
Incremental Herd Value                   -              -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -          433.3
Total Inflow                       1,412.2        2,165.7     2,707.0      2,707.9      2,707.9       2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9      2,707.9       2,707.9      2,707.9      3,141.2
Cash Outflow
Investment and Replacemect               -           468.6           -            -            -            -            -           12.6          -            -             -            -            -
Caoh Operating epenpee                1,299.0      1,727.4      2,358.0       2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0       2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0      2,371.0
(excladiog family lahor)
ILare at:
Long-tern Loan (11/.)                   -           49.0          49.0        49.0          49.0         45.5         41.7         37.4         32.7         27.5          21.6         15.1          8.0
Short-taer  Credit (157.)               -           15.5           -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -            -            -
Principal:
Long-tern Loan                          _             -            -            -           31.5         34.9         38.7         43.0         47.7          53.0         58.8         65.3         72.5
Shortt-toe  Crodit                      -           _           103.5           -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -
Total Outflov                      1,299.0        2,260.5      2,510.5      2,420.0     2,451.5       2,451.4      2,451.4      2,464.0      2,451.4      2,451.5       2,451.4      2,451.4      2,451.5
Cash Balance                            113.2          94.8        196,5        287.9        256.4        256.5        256.5        243.9        256.5         256.4        256.5        256.5         689.7
Cumulativ- Cash Balance                                94.8        291.3        579.2        835.4      1,092.1      1,348.6      1,592.5      1,849.0      2,105.4       2,361.9      2,681.4      3,308.1      ,-t
Finoncial Rate of Rotate 287.
1/ 807. of investment cost.
2/ 957. of investment cost.
SeaSl differences due to ro-ndiog.
March 1, 1978



NEUCO
SIXTH AGRICULTURJAL CREDIT PROJECT
3180-h Painred AnnwaL Crove Farm
C^sb Flo  Pro  ction
W I T H   P R 0 J E C T
Withot        -----------------------------------------------------------------------Years --------------------------------------------------------------------
Project         1         2         3         4                   6         _          8         _        10        11         12        13        14      15
1. Otber 3.aficiaries
Cash Inflow
Sales                                   656.5        890.1    948.9    992.4   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9  1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9
Long-terml loan  /--                                 4b1.5                                                                                                                                  
honrt-terns lrdit                       251.8        363.9    363.9    363.9    363.9    363.9          363.9    363.9       363.      3639      36319     363.9    3632 9   2369         363.9     363.93
Total Inflow                          908.3      1,735.5   1,312.8   1,356.3   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8
Cash Outflow
Invest1 ents and Replacests             -            601.9      -         -         -         -         -         378.0      -         -         -         -         -          378.0     -         -
Operating Expenses                      48i.8        662.4    664.5    666.o    667.5    667.5    667.5    667.5    667.5              667.5     667.5    667.5      667.5    667.5       667.5     667.5
Interest:
Long-tans loan (16%)                  -             77.0       77.0      66.3      54.o      39.6      23.0     -          -         -         -         -         -          -
Short-ters credit (15%) 2/             28.3         40.9      40.9       40.9      40.9      40.9      40.9      40.9      4o.9       40.9      40.9      40.9      40.9       40.9      40.9      40.9
Prrncipal:
Long-tens loan                        -            -          67.0       76.7      90.0     104.0    143.8      -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
Short-ters credit                     51.8        3632      363.9    363.9 3     363.9      63.      363.9     363.9    363.        363.9 363,          363.9     363.9      363.9       363.9   363.9
Total Outflow                         761.9      1,746.1   1,213.3   1,213.8   1,216.3   1,215.9   1,239.1   1,450.3   1,072.3   1,072.3   1,072.3   1,072.3   1,072.3   1,450.3   1,072.3   1,072.3
Cash hiance                             i46.4        (10.6)     99.5    142.5       183.5    183.9      160.7    (50.5)    327.5       327.5     327.5     327.5      327.5    (50.5)    327.5      327.5
Cnuulative Cash Balance                 -             (10.6)    88.9      231.4     414.9     598.8    759.5      709.0   1,036.5   1,364.0   1,691.5   2,019.0   2,346.5   2,296.0   2,623.5   2,951.0
W I T H POR 0 J E C T
Project         1         2         3         4         2          6         7         8         9        10         11        12        13         14      15
2. LIPS
Sales                                   656.5        890.1    948.9    992.4   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9  1,035.9   1,035.9   1,035.9
Long-term loan                          -            571.8      -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -
Short-term credit                       251.8        363.9    363.9    363.9        363.9     363.9     363.9     363.9      363.9     363.9    363.9    363.9   __623,                             363.9
Total Inflow                          908.3      1,825.8   1,312.8   1,356.3   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8   1,399.8
Cash Outflow
Investments sod Replacenents            -            6oi.9     -          -         -         -         -         378.o      -         -         -         -          -         378.0     -         -
operating Expenses                      481.8        662.4    664.5       666.o     667.5    667.5      667.5    667.5       667.5     667.5     667.5     667.5    667.5       667.5     667.5    667.5
Interest:
Long-tenr loa  (11%)                  -             62.9       62.9      52.8      41.6      29.1      15.3      -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -
Short-term credit (15%)  J             28.3         40.9       40.9      40.9      40.9      40.9      40.9       40.9      40.9      40.9      40.9      40.9       40.9      40.9      40.9       40.9
Principal:
Long-term loan                        -             -          91.8    101.9      113.1    125.6      139.4           -         -         -         -          -         -              -          -
Short-ters credit                     251.8         363.9    363.9    363.9       363.9    363.9    363.9        363.9    363.9      363.9    363.9 363.9    363%9            363.9      363,9    _3kL.2
Total Outnflow                        761.9      1,732.0   1,224.0   1,225.5   1,227.0   1,227.0   1,227.0   1,450.3   1,072.3   1,072.3   1,072.3   1,072.3   1,072.3   1,450.3   1,072.3   1,072.3
Contributton of Producer
Labor                                  202.5        262.8    262.8    262.8        262.8    262.8    262.8    262.8         262.8    262.8      262.8      262.8     262.8     262.8     262.8    262.8
Cash Relance                            348.9        356.6      351.6     393.6     435.6     435.6     435.6    212.3       590.3    590.3      590.3      590.3     590.3     212.3     590.3      590.3
Csmulative Cash Balance                 -            356.6    708.2   1,101.8   1,537.4   1,973.0   2,408.6   2,620.9   3,211.2   3,801.5   4,391.8   4,982.1   5,572.4   5,784.7   6,375.0   6,965.3
Fi.n.nial Rsts of Return:  25%
1/ 80% of investmlent costs. 
9/ Average loan period- -ent-  ths.
9/ 95% of investnent costs.
March 1, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
400-ha Tobewell Annual Crop
Cash Flow Projction
(mexS '000)
W I T H P R O J E C T
Withoot -____-----                                           -        -------------------- Y-Year-----____________________________-- ------
Project        1            2            3            4           5            6            7            8           9           10           11           12           13           14           15
1. Other Beneficiaries
Cash inflow:
Sales                             1,298.8     3,587.0      4,219.5     4,691.0      5,031.5      5,191.0      5,191.0     5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0     5,191.0      5,191.1
Long-tern loan 1-                  -          4,250.0        -           -            -            -            -            -           -            -            -            -            -            -            -           -
Short-term  credit                  788.0        ,         2,233.0     2.3.0        2,312.0      2,355.0      2 3555I 2,3555. 2,355.0                             ,355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0     2,355.0      2,355.0
Total Inflow:                   2,086.8    10,014.0      6,452.5      6,974.0     7,343.5      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0     7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0
Cash Outflow:
In-tnts ad Replacsts               -          5,313.0        -           -            -            -            -           -            -            882.0      1,008.0      1,008.0        -            882.0       -            -
Opseating Expenses               1,035.6      3,270.6      3,326.9      3,376.9     3,405.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5     3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5     3,428.5
Interest:
Long-tern loan (16%)             -            680.0        680.0        680.0       680.0        581.0        466.0        333.0        179.0       -            -            -            -            -            -            -
Short-tern credit (15%) 2/        88.7        244.9        251.2        256.8       260.1        264.9        264.9        264.9       264.9        264.9        264.9        264.9        264.9        264.9        264.9        264.9
Principal:
Long-tern 1on                   -            -            -            -           618.0        717.0        832.0        965.0     1,118.0        -            -            -            .            -            -            -
Short-term cr-dit                 788.0     217           22330       2.283.0     2.312.0      2.355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0     2,355.0                                             2.355.0 2,35  2,   2,355.0  2J355Q     2,355.0
Total Outflow:                  1,912.3    11,685.5      6,491.1      6,596.7      7,275.6     7,346.4      7,346.4      7,346.4      7,345.4     6,930.4       7,056.4     7,056.4      6,048.4      6,930.4      6,048.4      6,048.4
Cash Dalance                       174.5    (1,671.5)        (38.6)       377.3        67.9        199.6        199.6        199.6       200.6        615.6        489.6        489.6      1,497.6        615.6      1,497.6      1,497.6
Cumulative Cash Balance            -         (1,671.5)   (1,710.1)   (1,332.8)   (1,264.9)   (1,065.3)         (865.7)      (666.1)      (465.5)      150.1        639.7      1,129.3      2,626.9      3,242.5      4,740.1      6,237.7
W I T H   P R O J E C T
Without          --           -     -     -      -     ---                       -    --------Ye ----
Project        1            2            3            4           5            6            7            8            9           10          11           12           13           14           15
2.  LIPS
Cash Inflow:
Sales                            1,298.8      3,587.0      4,219.5     4,691.0      5,031.5      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0     5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0      5,191.0
Long-ter-  loan 3/                 -          5,047.4                     -           -            -            -            -            -           -            -            -                   -                  -            -
ShoirItert   cr5dit                 788.0     2177.0      2.233.0     2,283.0      2,312.0      2,355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0     2,355.0       2235        2,355.0      2.355,0      2,355.0      2,355.0 22,355.0          2.355.0
Total Inflow:                  2,086.8    10,811.4       6,452.5      6,974.0      7,343.5     7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0     7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0      7,546.0
Cash Outfloe:
Invest- entt  and Replacanents     -          5,313.0        -           -            -            -            -            -           -            882.0      1,008.0      1,008.0        _            882.0        -            -
Operating EIpennes               1,035.6      3,270.6      3,326.9      3,376.9     3,405.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5     3,428.5       3,428.5     3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5      3,428.5
Interest
Lang-term loan (I1.)             -            555.2        555.2        555.2        555.2       466.1        367.1        257.3        135.3        -            -           -            _            -            -            -
Short-tero  credit (15%) 2/        88.7       244.9        251.2        256.8        260.1       264.9        264.9        264.9        264.9        264.9        264.9       264.9        264.9        264.9        2t4.9        264.9
Principal:
Long-t-e  loan                   -            -            -            -            810.5       899.6        998.6      1,108.4      1,230.3        -            -           -            -            -            -            -
Short-tern credit                 788.0     2,177.0      2,233.0      2,283.0     2,312.0      2,355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0     2,355.0       2,355.0     2,355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0      2,355.0
Total Outflow                  1,912.3    11,560.7       6,366.3      6,471.9      7,343.3     7,414.1      7,414.1      7,414.1      7,414.0     6,930.4       7,056.4      7,056,4     6,048.4      6,930.4      6,048.4      6,048.4
Cretrihution of Prodocer
Labor                            530.8      1,093.5      1,093.5      1,093.5     1,093.5      1,093.5      1,093.5      1,093.5      1,893.5     1,093.5       1,093.5     1,093.5       1,093.5     1,093.5      1,093.5      1,093.5
Cash Balence                        705.3       344.2      1,179.7      1,595.6     1,093.7      1,225,4      1,225.4      1,225.4      1,225.5      1,709.1      1,583.1     1,583.1       2,591.1     1,709.1      2,591.1      2,591.1
Cumulstive Cash Bal..n.            -            344.2      1,523.9      3,119.5     4,213.2      5,438.6      6,664.0      7,889.4      9,114.9    10,824.0    12,407.1    13,990.2    16,581.3    18,290.4    20,881.5    23,472.6
Financial Rate of Return 21%
1/ 80% of invesntmnt costs.
2/ Average loan period of nine monthn.
3/ 95% of i-vetmnent costs.
March 1, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
400-ha Gravity Irrigated Annual Crops Farm
Cash Flow Projection
(M..$  000)
W I T H P R O J E C T
Without                                                                         --e---------_ --Years - ----* - --------- ----------
Project        1            2            3           4            5            6            7           8            9           10           11           12           13           14        15
1. Other Reseficiariea
Cash Inflow:
Sales                            1,996.0      3,628.9      4,296.6     4,621.7      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0     4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0     4,852.0      4,852.0
Long-tern loan 1/                  -          4,250.0        -           -            -            -            -           -            -            -
Short-tero credit                1,085.0      1,691.5      1,719.0     1,731.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8     1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8     1.740Z 8     1,740.8      1.740,8
Total Inflow                  3,081.0      9,570.4      6,015.6     6,353.5      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8     6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8     6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8
Cash Outflow:
Investments and Raplncemnsts       -          5,313.0        -           -            -            -            -           504.0        504.0        -            -            -           -          1 008.0        -            -
Oparating Costs                   1,415.0     2,796.7      2,824.2     2,837.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0     2,848.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2 846.0     2,846.0      2,846.0
Interest:
Long-term loon (167.)            -            680.0        680.0       680.0        680.0        581.0        466.0        333.0       179.0        -            -            -
Short-tise  Credit (157) 2/      122.1        191.3        193.4       194.8        195.8        195.8        195.8       195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8       195.8
Principal.
Long-term  loon                  -            -            -           -            618.0        717.0        832.0       965.0      1,118.0        -            -            -            -            -            -
Short-term  crsdit             1,085.0      1,691.5      1,719.0     1,731.8      1,740.8    1L740&         1,740.8     1,740.8      1,740.8      1.740,8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8     1.740.8      1.740.8
TevE1 Outflow               2,622.1    10,671.5      5,416.6      5,443.6      6,080.6      6,080.6     6,080.6      6,584.6      6,583.6      4,782.6      4,782.6     4,782.6      4,782.6      5,790.6      4,782.6      4,782.6
Cash Balance                       458.9    (1,101.1)        599.0       909.9        512.2        512.2        512.2          8.2         9.2      1,810.2      1,810.2      1,810.2      1,810.2        802.2      1,810.2     1,810.2
Cumulative Cash Balasc-            -         (1,101.1)      (502.1)      407.8        920.0      1,432.2      1,944.4      1,952.6     1,961.8      3,772.0      5,582.2      7,392.4      9,202.6    10,004.8    11,815.0    13,625.2
W I T H   PR O J E C T
Without ------____________                      -T ----ears. ---------------.
Project       1            2             3           4            5           6            7            8           9           10           11           12           13           14         15
2,   LIPS                                                                                                              
Cash Inflow:
Slals                            1,996.0      3,628.9      4,296.6     4,621.7      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0     4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0      4,852.0     4,852.0
Long-term  loan 3/                 -          5,047.4        -           -            -            -
Short-tern Credit                 1.085.0     1,691.5      1,719.0     1,731.8      1,740.8      1,7400. 1.740,8           1,74028     12740!       1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1,740.8      1.740.8
Total Inflow                 3,081.0    10,367.8      6,015.6      6,353.5      6,592.8      6,592.8     6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8      6,592.8     6,592.8
Cash Outflow:
Inweetments and Replace.ants       -          5,313.0        -           -            -            -            -           504.0        504.0        -            -            -            -          1,008.0        -            -
Operating Costs                  1,415.0      2,796.7      2,821.2     2,837.0      2,846.0      2,848.0      2,846.0      2,846.0     2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0      2,846.0
Interest:
Long.tern loan (11%)              -           555.2        555.2       555,2        555.2        466,1        367.1        257,3        135,3       -            -            -----
Short-term  credit (15%) 2/       122.1       190,3        193,4       194.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8       195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8        195.8
Frincipal:
Long-term  loan                  -            -            -           -            810.5        899.6        998.6      1,108.4     1,230.3        -            -            -            -            -            -
Short-term  credit              1,085.0     1,691.5      1,719.0     1,731.8      1.740.8      1.740,8      1,740,8      1,740,8      1,740.8     1,740.8      1,74         1,740.8      1,740.8      1.740.8      1.740.8      1.740.8
Total Outflow                2,622.1    10,546.7      5,288.8      5,318.8      6,148.3      6,148.3      6,148.3     6,652.3      6,652.2      4,782.6      4,782.6      4,782.6      4,782.6      5,790.6      4,782.6      4,782.6
Contrihetion of Producer Labhr    730.0       1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105,2     1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105.2     1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105.2      1,105.2
Cash Ralanc,                     1,188.9        926,3      1,832.0     2,139.9      1,549.7      1,549.7      1,549.7      1,045.7     1,045.8      2,915.4      2,915.4      2,915.4      2,915.4      1,907.4      2,915.4      2,915.4
C-mulative Cash Balence            -            926.3      2,758.3     4,898.2      6,447.9      7,997.6      9,547.3    10,593.0    11,638.8    14,554.2    17,469.6    20,385.0    23,300.4    25,207.8    28,123.2    31,038.6
Financial Rate of Return: 23%
1/ 807. of invest-ent costs. .
2/ Average loan period of nine -onthe.
3/ 95% of investment costs.
March 1, 1978



MEXICO
STUTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
to-ha Irrigated Walnut Orchard 1/
Cash Fls Projection
(Mex$ 'ooo)
W I T H   P R O J E C T
Project         1          2         3         4                    6          7         8          9        10         11        12         13        14       15
1. Other Beneficiaries
Cast Inflo.
Sales                                  1,104.0        675.0      675.0     675.0   1,080.0   1,215.0   1,350.0   1,620.0   2,025.0   2,295.0   2,430.0   2,565.0   2,700.0   2,700.0   2,700.0   2,700.0
Long-term loan 2/                        -          1,205.0      199.0     171.0      -         -
Short-term credlt                        451.0        202.7      211.7     211.7      482.6     514.7      540.5     585.2      643.1     688.1      726.5     758.6      77t.8     774.8      774.8     774.8
Total Inflow                         1,555.0      2,082.7   1,085.7   1,057.7   1,562.6   1,729.7   1,890.5   2,205.2   2,668.1   2,983.1   3,156.5   3,323.6   3,474.8   3,474.8   3,474.8   3,474.8
Cash Outflow
Isavestents and Replacemesta             -          1,506.0      249.0     214.o      -         -          -         357.0      -         -          -          78.0      -         357.0      -          -
Operating Expenses                       495.2        229.7      238.7     238.7      545.0     576.2    610.4       650.0      740.3     795.8      839.9     861.2      828.8     828.8      828.8     828.8
Interest:
Long-term 1en (16%)                    -            193.0      224.6     252.0      252.0     252.0      226.0     193.0     156.0      113.0       62.0
Short-term credit (15%) 2/              50.7         22.8       23.8      23.8       54.3      57.9       60.8      65.8      72.3       77.4       81.7      85.3       87.2      87.2       87.2      87.2
Principal:
Long-term loan                         --                      -         -          -         165.0      201.0     234.0      271.0     3i4.o      390.0     -          -          -         -          -
Short-tern credit                      151.0        202.7      211.7     211.7      482.6     514.7      540.5     585.2     643.1      688.1      726.5     758.6      774.8     774.8      774.8     774.8
Total Outflow                        996.9      2,154.2      947.8     940.2   1,333.9   1,565.8   1,638.7   2,085.0   1,882.7   1,988.3   2,100.1   1,783.1   1,690.8   2,047.8   1,690.8   1,690.8
Cash Ralaso                              558.1         (71.5)    137.9     117.5      228.7     163.9      251.8     120.2      785.4     994.8   i,o56.4   1,54o.5   1,784.0   1,427.0   1,784.0   1,784.0
Cunulative Cash Balance                  -             (71.5)     66.4     183.9      4i2.6     576.5      828.3     948.5   1,733.9   2,728.7   3,785.1   5,325.6   7,109.6   8,536.6  10,320.6  12,104.6
W I T H    P R O J E C T 
Witho t       ---------------------------------------------------------------------_years -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Project         1          2         3          4         5          6         7         8          2         10        11         12        13         14      15
2. LIPS
Cash Inflow
Tales                                  1,104.0        675.0      675.0     675.0   1,080.0   1,215.0   1,350.0   1,620.0   2,025.0   2,295.0   2,430.0   2,565.0   2,700.0   2,700.0   2,700.0   2,700.0
Long-term loan 4/                        -          1,430.0      236.o     204.0      -         -
Short-term credit                        451.0        202.7      211.7     211.7      482.6     514.7      540.5     585.2      643.1     688.1      726.5      758.6     774.8      774.8     774.8      774.8
Total Inflow                         1,555.0      2,307.7   1,122.7   1,090.7   1,562.6   1,729.7   1,890.5   2,205.2   2,668.1   2,983.1   3,156.5   3,323.6   3,474.8   3,474.8   3,474.8   3,474.8
Cash Outflow
Investasnt and Replacenent               -          1,506.o      249.0     214.0      -         -          -         357.0      -          -         _          780.0     -          357.0     -          -
Operating Costs                          495.2         229.7     238.7      238.7     545.0     576.2      610.4     650.0      740.3     795.8      839.9      861.2     828.8      828.8     828.8      828.8
Interest:
-ong-tern loss (11%)                   -            157.0      183.0     206.0      206.0    2o6.0       180.0     151.0      119.0       83.0     44.o       -         -          -         -          -
Short-tern credit (15%) -               50.7         22.8       23.8      23.8       54.3      57.9       6o.8       5.8       72.3      77.4       81.7       85.3      87.2       87.2      87.2       87.2
Principal:
L.ong-tern loan                        -             -         -         -          -         236.0      262.0     291.0      323.0     359.0      399.0     -          -          -          -         -
Short-tern credit                      451.0        202.7      211.7     211.7      482.6     514.7      54o.5     585.2      643.1     688.1      726.5      758.6     774.8      774.8     774.8      774.8
Total Outflow                          996.9      2,118.2      906.2     894.2   1,287.9   1,590.8   1,653.7   2,100.0   1,897.7   2,003.3   2,091.1   2,485.1   1,690.8   2,047.8   1,690.8   1,690.8
Contribution of Producer
tabor                                  192.5        336.o      218.0     218.0      278.0     290.0      305.0     320.0      365.0     395.0      400.0    4Wo.o       400.0      4oo.o     400.0      400.0
Cash Bslance                             750.6         525.5     434.5      414.5     552.7     428.9      541.8     425.2   1,135.4   1,374.8   1,465.4   1,238.5   2,184.0   1,827.0   2,184.0   2,184.0
Cumulstive Cash Balsace                  -             525.5     960.0   1,374.5   1,927.2   2,356.t   2,897.9   3,323.1   4,158.5   5,833.3   7,298.7   8,537.2  10,721.2  12,548.2  14,732.2  16,916.2
Financil Rsate of Return: 17%
1/  Including pre-existing 10-ha walnut grove.
2/ 81% of invaestLnt costs.
]/ Average loan period of nine e,snths.                                                                                                                                                                      * 
95r  of invstme9  t costs.7
I(arsh 1, 1978



YEXICO
SIXT12 AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cocoa Orchard Rehabilitation
Cash Flow Proiection
(Ye.?? ')
W  I T   P Y R O J E C T
Project        1         2         3         4        5         6         7         8         2       10        11        12        13        14        15        16       17
1. Other Bea.ficiaria.
Cash Inflow
Sales                               1,000.0      1,O0.o  1,4oo.o  1,600.0  1,800.0  2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0
Long-ters loanj/                      -           882.0     -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -
Short-tor  credit                      49.0        13.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0
Total Inflow                      1,049.0      1,895.0  1,593.0  1,793.0  1,993.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0   2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0
Cash Outflow
Investments and Replaconts            -         1,103.0     -         -         -         -        126.0     -         -         -         -         126.0     -         -         -        -         126.0     -
Operating Expessea                    287.0       143.0    675.0    701.0    727.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.Q                753.0    753.0    753.0
Interest:
Long-ters loan (16%)                -            141.0    141.0    113.0       81.0      44.0                                                 -         -         -              -         -
Short-tern credit (15%) 2/            5.5         1.5      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7     21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7     21.7      21.7
Principal:
Long-term loon                      -            -        174.0    202.0    234.0    272.0        -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Short-term credit                    49.0        13.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0
Total Outflow                       341.5      1,401.5   1,204.7  1,230.7  1,256.7  1,283.7  1,093.7    967.7    967.7    967.7    967.7  1,093.7    967.7    967.7    967.7    967.7  1,093.7    967.7
Cash Balance                          707.5       493.5    388.3    562.3    736.3    909.3  1,099.3   1,225.3  1,225.3   1,225.3  1,225.3  1,099.3   1,225.3   1,225.3   1,225.3   1,225.3  1,099.3  1,225.3
Counlative Cash Balance               -           493.5    881.8  1,444.1  2,180.4  3,089.7  4,189.0   5,414.3  6,639.6  7,864.9  9,090.2  10,189.5  fl,414.8  12,640.1  13,865.4  15,090.7  16,190.0  17,415.3
W I T H   P R O J E C T
Project        1         2         3         4         5        6         7         8         2        10        11        12       13        14        15        16      17
2. LIPS
Cash Inflow
Soles                               1,000.0      1,O0O.O   1,4oo.o  1,600.0  1,800.0   2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0
Lcng-ter-m... 3                                 1,048.8     -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -
Short-tern credit                      49.0        13.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0
Total Inflow                      1,049.0      2,061.8  1,593.0   1,793.0   1,993.0  2,193.0  2,193.0   2,193.0  2,193.0   2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0   2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0  2,193.0
Cash Outflow
Investments and Replacements          -         1,103.0     -         -         -         -         126.0     -        -         -         -         126.0     -         -         -         -        126.0     -
Oparati.g Erpensss                    287.0        143.0    675.0    701.0    727.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0    753.0
Interest:
Long-term loss (11%)                -            115.3    115.3      90.8      63.6      33.3     -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Short-term credit (15%) 1             5.5         1.5      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7     21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7
Principal:
Long-term loan                      -            -        223.2    247.7    274.9    303.0        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Short-term credit                    49.0         13.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0    193.0
Total Outflow                       341.5      1,375.8   1,228.2  1,254.2   1,280.2   1,304.0  1,093.7    967.7    967.7    967.7    967.7  1,093.7    967.7    967.7    967.7    967.7   1,093.7    967.7
Conatribotion of Producer Labor       198.0        390.0    426.o    444.0o    462.0    48o.o    48o.o    48o.o    48o.o    480.0    480.o    48o.o    480.0    48o.o    48o.o    48o.o    480.o    480.o
Cssh Balanco                          905.5     1,076.0    790.8    982.8  1,174.8   1,369.0  1,579.3  1,705.3  1,705.3  1,705.3  1,705.3  1,579.3   1,705.3   1,705.3  1,705.3  1,705.3  1,579.3  1,705.3
Cusulative Cash BRlance               -         1,076.0  1,866.8  2,849.6  4,o24.4  5,393.4  6,972.7  8,678.0  10,383.3  12,088.6  13,793.9  15,373.2  17,078.5  18,783.8  20,489.1  22,194.4  23,773.7  25,479.o
Financiol Rote of Return: 32%
1/ 80% of investment costs.
A Average loan period of niae months.
3/ 95% of investment costs.
March 1, 1978



MEnalO
SIXTH A4'RICULTOBRL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow Prolntiaon
(Meo$ '000O)
W I T H P R O J E C T
W ithout-           - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - -   -Yo- -o--   - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -   -- - - - -
Prj-ct        11         0          3          4         _          6          I          8          2         10         11         12         13         14        15
1. Other efiojaris
Cash Inflow4,4.-0360 6,0.                                                                                                                            15606,o.
Soes,                               32,928.0        -       45,900.0  68,850.0  67,014.0  64,260.0  45,900.0  47,_48.0   52,326.0  61,506.0  61,506.0  61,506.0   1,506.0  61,506.0  61,506.o  61,506.o
long-ten, loo  2/                      -         29,180.0      -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         --
Short-te,  -oredit                  16,292,0         -      20,664,o  25,434.0  25.,76.0  25,708.0  03,013.0  23,156.0   23,944.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25.278.
Total InfloW                      49,220.0    29,280.0  66,564.o  94,284.0  92,090.0  89,968.0  68,913.0  70,204.0  76,270.0  86,784.o  86,784.o  86,784.o   86,784.0  86,784.0  86,784.0  86,784.0
Canh Outflo
Isoestoents snd Roplaceonato           -         36,600.0c          -          -          -               -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Op-reting Eops.n..                  19,212.0        -       24,660.0  30,348.0  29,916.0  30,438.0  27,009.0  27,198.0  28,197.0  29,898.0  29,898.0  29,898.0   29,898.0  29,898.0  29,898.0  29,898.0
Interest:
Long-ter9 loan (16%)                  -          5,856.0   5,856.o   5,856.o   3,536.0   2,016.o         -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Short-ton oredit (15%) 2/           1,833.0        -        2,325.0   2,861.0    2,821.0   2,692.0   2,589.0   2,605.0   2,694.o    2,844.0   2,844.o    2,844.o   2,844.0   2,844.o   2,844.o    2,844.o
Prianipal:
Long-ten, loan                        -            -          -       7,180.0   9,500.0  12,60o.0             -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -                -
Short-ten, -redit                  16,292.0                20,664.o  25,434.0  25,076.0  257o08.o  03,013.0  23,156.0  23,944.0  05,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25.278.o  25,278.0
Total Ootflo                      37,337.0    42,456.0  53,505.0  71,679.0  70,849.0  73,654.0  52,611.0  52,959.0  54,835.0  58,020.0  58,020.0  58,020.0  58,020.0   58,020.0  58,020.0  58,020.0
Cash Babnce                         11,883.0   (13,176.0) 13,059.0  22,605.0  21,241.0  16,314.0  16,302.0  17,245.0  21,435.0  28,764.0  28,764.0  28,764.0  28,764.0  28,764.o  28,764.0  28,764.0
Culautive Cash Bolonsr                 -        (13,176.0)     117.0  22,488.0  43,729.0  60,043.0  76,345.0  93,590.0  115,025.0  143,789.0  172,553.0  201,317.0  230,081.0  258,845.0  287,609.0  316,373.0
W I T H   P R o J E C T
W ithout-Y earn--------------------------------------------------------------------------- resrs----------  -------------------------------------------------------------------
Projeot          1          2          3          4          5          6                    8                    10         11         12         13         14        15
2. LIPS
Cash Iailow,
Sot39les                            32,928.0        -       45,900.0  68,850.0  67,014.0  64,260.0  45,900.0  47,o48.0  52,326.0  61,586.0  61,5o6.o  61,5o6.0  61,506.0  6i,506.0  61,506.0  61,506.0
roag-ter loan                          -         34,770.0      -          -
Short-tern credit                   16,292.0       _        20,664.0  25,434.0  25,076.0  25,708.0  23,013.0  23,156.0  23,944.o  25,278.0  25,278.0   25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0
Totni Inflow                      49,220.0    34,770.0  66,564.o  94,264.0  92,090.0  89,968.0  68,913.0  7o,2o4.0  76,27o.o  86,784.0  86,784.o  86,784.o  86,784.4  86,784.0  86,784.0  86,784.0
Cosh Outflow
Investesets and Roplacersets           -         36,600.0
oper.tihg Eopeness                  19,212.0        -       24,660.0  30,348.0  29,946.0  30,438.0  27,009.0  27,198.0  28,197.0   29,898.0  29,898.0  29,898.0  29,898.0  29,898.6  29,898.0   29,898.o
Interest:
Long-ten  loon (11%)                  -          3,825.0   3,825.0   3,825.0   2,680.0   1,410.0                    -          -          -          -          -          -                -          -
Short-ten  oredit (15%) 7/          1,833.0        -        2,325.0   o,861.0    2,821.0   2,892.0   2,589.0    2,6o5.0   2,694.0    2,844.0   2,844.o    2,844.o   2,844.c    2,844.o   2,844,o 2,844,.o
Prin-lpol:
Long-ter loan                         -            -          -       10,403.0  11,548.0  12,819.0       -
Short-ten  oredit                  162_92.0       2-0,664.0  25,434.0   25,076.0  25,708.0   23,013.0  23,156.0  23,944.0   25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278.0  25,278,0   2s781D  25,278.0
Total Outflov                    37,337.0    4o,425.0  51,474.0  72,871.0  72,041.0  73,267.0  52,611.0  52,959.0  54,835.0  58,020.0   58,020,o   58,020.0  58,020.0  58,020.0  58,020.0  58,020.0
Contribution of Producer
Labor                             1,600.0      5,184.0   2,160.0   2,160.0    2,160.0   2,160.0   2,160.0    2,16o.o    2,160.0   2,16o.O   2,16o.0    2,16o.o   2,160.0    2,16o.o    2,160.o    2,16o.o
Cash Bsl-ace                       13,483.0       (471.0)  17,230.0  23,573.0  22,209.0  18,861.0  18,462.0  19,405.0  23,595.0  30,924.0  30,924.0  30,924.0  30,924.0   30,924.0  30,924.3  30,924.0
C.oalotlo- Cosh Bslance               -           (471.0)  16,779.0  40,352.0  62,561.o  81,422.0  99,884.0  119,289.0  i42,884.o  173,808.0  204,732.0  235,656.0  266,580.0  297,504.0  328,428.0  359,352.0
Financial ROts of Rot,ro: 31%
1/ 80% of i-ntes...t osts.
77 Average loas period of sine wonths.
ac95%  hf i 1e,tt o9 t.8
tsarh 1, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cattle Slaughtering Plant
Cash Flow Pro ectione
(MIex million)
1        2        3        4        5        6         7        8        9       10       11       12        13       14       15       16        17       18       19       20
Income
Borrowers' equity 1/                        2.9      3.2      --       --        --       --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --       --       --       -    -   -         --
Long-term loan 2/                          11.5     12.8      --       --        --       --       --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --       --
Short-term loan 3/                          0.1      2.0      --       --        -_       __       _        -_       --       __       __        __       __       __        __       __       __       __        __       __
Total sales                                 --       -      134.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0   201.0
Last Year's cash balance                    _        0.1      0.0      2.5       2.0      1.4      1.2      0.6      0.1      0.0       1.8      3.6      4.7      6.5       8.3    10.1      12.9       6.4      0.6      1.4
Total Cash Inflow                          14.5     18.1   134.0   203.5   203.0   202.4   202.2   201.6   201.1   201.0   202.8   204.6   205.7   207.5   209.3   211.1    213.9   207.4   201.6   202.4
Expenditures                                                                                                                                                                                8.6      8.6
Investments:  Fixed assets                 14.4     11.0      --       --       __                 0.7      __       __       __       __        0.7      __       __        __       __       0.7      __        _ 
Working capital             --       5.0       --       --       --       --                         --        --       --       --                          --        -.                --                --
Operating Costs                             --       --    124.1   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5   192.5                            o
Debt Service:
Long-term  loan principal                --       --       --       2.7      3.1       3.7      4.3      4.9      5.6      --       --            --        --       --   __       __       __       __       _ 
Long-term  loan interest                 --       2.0      4.1      4.1      3.7       3.1      2.5      1.9      1.0      --       --            --   _     -       --   __       __       __       _- _ 
Short-term  loan principal               --       0.1      2.0      --       --       --       --        -_       --       --       __        --       --       _-       --        --       --       -_       -_        __
Short-term  loan interest                --       0.0      0.3      --       --       --        --       --            -    -           --             -        --       -         --                --        --       --
Income Tax  4/                              --       __       1.0      0.7      0.8      0.9       1.1      1.2      1.5       1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7      1.7
Dividends Distributed                       --       --       --        1.5      1.5      1.0      0.5      1.0      0.5       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      6.0      7.0
Total Cash Outflow                         14.4     18.1   131.5   201.5   201.6   201.2   201.6   201.5   201.1   199.2   199.2   199.9   199.2   199.2   199.2   198.2   207.5   206.8   200.2   201.2
Cash Balance at Year's End               0.1      0.0      2.5      2.0      1.4       1.2      0.6      0.1      0.0      1.8      3.6       4.7      6.5      8.3     10.1      12.9      6.4      0.6       1.4      1.2
Financial Rate of Return 25.6% (before interest and income tax)
1/ 207. of total inwestment.
2/ 807. of total investment, 17%. interest, 8 years including two years of grace.
3/ 16% interest.
4/ 25% as plant would be owned by producers, after interest charges and Mex$1.6 million depreciation charge.
March 31, 1978



WREICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Milk ProcessinR  .at Plant
1        2        3        4         5        6        7        8         9       10       II        12       13       14        15       16       17        18       19       20
Income
Borrower's equityl                           0.6       0.8      --        --       --       --       --        --       --       -         -        -         -       -          -       -         -        -         -        -
Long temsloan 21                             2.5       3.2      --        --       --       --       --        --        -       -         -        -         -       -          -       -         -        -         -        -
Short ter.s loan7 3/                         0.1       0.5      0.7      0.5       0,4      0.2      0.3       --       -        -         -       -          -       -          -       -         -        -         -        -
Total sales                                   --       --       8.1     13.5    13.5    13.5        13.5    13.5    13.5    13.5         13.5      13.5     13.5     13.5     13.5      13.5     13.5      13.5     13.5     13.5
Last year's cash balance                      --       0.1      0.1       -        -        0.1      0.1      ----               0.2      0.1       _-       0.5       1.3      16       2.6      3.7       1.7      0.2       0.2
Total Cash Inflow                             3.2      4.6      8.9     14.0    13.9       13.8     13.9    13.5    13.5    13.7         13.6      13.5     14.0    14.8       15.1    16.1      17.2      15.2     13.7      13.7
2.6      2.6
Investments:  Fixed assets                   3.1       3.9       -        -        -.        -       0.3       -        -         -       -         0.5      --       -          -       -          .5      --       -         -
Working capital               --       0.1                         --                          -- -   - -   - -   -       -          -       -         -        -         -       -          -       -          --
Operating Costs                               -        --       7.4     11.9    11.9       11.9     11.9      11.9    11.9    11.9       11.9      11.9     11.9     11.9      11.9     11.9      11.9     11.9     11.9      11.9
Debt service:
Long term  loan princiPal                 -        --       .-        0.4      0.5      0.5       0.6      0.7      0.8      1.1       1.1      --        - --     --       --        --       --        --       --
tong lets, loan interest                  -        0.4       0.9      0.9      0.8      0.8       0.7      0.6      0.5       0.4      0.2      -          -       -         .        -         -       -          -       -
Short tart  lean princiPal1-                       0.1       0.5      0.7      0.5      0.4       0.2      0.3      --        --       --       -         -        -         -        -         -       -          -       -
Sho,rt tarts loas interest                --       0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0      --        --       --       -          -       -         -        -         -        -         -        -
Tncome tax  4/                                -        --      ---       --        --       --       --        --       0.1      0.1      0.2       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3
Dividends distributed                         -         -       -         -        -         -       -         --       --       --       0.2       0._3     0.5      10        0.3      0.2       0.2      0.2       13       1.
Total Cash Outflow                            3.1      4.5      8.9     14.0    13.8       13.7     13.9     13.5      13.3    13.6      13.6      13.0     12.7      13.2     12.5     12.4      15.5     15.0      13.5     13.6
Cash Balance at Year's Ead                0.1      0.1       --       --       0.1      0.1       --       --       0.2       0.1      --       0.5       1.3      1.6       2.6      3.7      1.7       0.2      0.2       0.1
Financial Rate of Return 16.1% (Before interest and income tax)
1/ 207. of total investment.
2/  80%. of total investment, 17% interest, 10 years including two years of grate.                                                                                                                                             ' 
3/161 interest.
4/  25% as plant would be owed by producers; after interest changes and Mex$ 0.5 N depreciation change.
Marh 31, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agroindustry: Feed Mill
Cash Flow Projections
(Mex$ Millions)
1        2        3       4         5         6         7         8        9       10       11        12       13        14        15         16        17        18       19       20
Incore
Borrower's equity 1/                        1.5      2.7      --       --        --         --        - -   -           -        --       --       --       _ _        _ _       _ _       _ __
tong term loan 2|                           6.1    10.9       --       --        --         --        --       --       _.       -_       __       _-       __         __        __        __         __        __       __       _
Short term  l.a   3/                        0.1      1.1      --       --        --        --         --       --       --       --       --       --       --        --         --        --        --         --       --       --
Total sales                                  --       -      61.5    98.4       98.4       98.4      98.4    98.4    98.4    98.4    98.4    98.4    98.4            98.4       98.4      98.4      98.4       98.4    98.4    98.4
Lact year's cash balance                     _       0.1      0.1      8.1       7.1       5.0        2.8      0.8      0.4      0.1      1.1      1.1      1.4       2.4        3.4       4.4       5.4        3.2      1.5      1.5
Total Cash inflow                           7.7    14.8    61.6   106.5        105.5    103.4    101.2    99.2    98.8    98.5    99.5    99.5    99.8              100.8    101.8    102.8    103.8    101.6    99.9    99.9
Expenditures
2.5       2.7
Invesiseets:  Fied Assets                  7.6      4.0      --       --        --        --         0.7      --       --       --       --       0.7      --        --         --        --        0.7        --       --       --
Working capital               --     9.6      --       --         --        --        --       --       --       --        --      _-       -_         __        __         __        -_        __       __        __
Operating Costs                              --      --      48.3    92.0       92.0       92.0      92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0            92.0       92.0      92.0      92.0       92.0    92.0    92.0
Debt service:
Long term loan principal                  --      --       --       1.8       2.1       2.5        2.9      3.4      4.3      --       __       __       __        __         __        __        __         __       __       __
Long term loan interest                   --      1.0      2.9      2.9       2.6       2.2        1.8      1.3      0.7      --      -_        _-       __        __         __        __        __         __       __       __
Short ter  loan principal                 --     0.1       1.1      --        --        --         --       --       _-       --       -_       __       __        __         __        __        __         __       __       __
Short tern loan interest                  --     0.0      0.2       --        --        --        --        --       --       --       --       --       --        --         --        --        --        --        --       --
income tax 4/                                --      --       --       0.7       0.8       0.9        1.0      1.1      1.3      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4       1.4        1.4       1.4        1.4       1.4      1.4      1.4
Dividends distributed                       I_       -        1.0      2.0       3.0       3.0        2.0      1.0      0.4      4.0      5.0      4 0      4.0       4.0        4 0       4.0       4.0        4.0      5.0      5.0
TotaI Cash Ostflow                          7.6    14.7    53.5       99.4    100.5    100.6    100.4    98.8    98.7    97.4    98.4    98.1    97.4                97.4       97.4      97.4     100.6      100.1    98.4    98.4
Cash Balance at Year's End               0.1      0.1      8.1      7.1       5.0       2.8       0.8       0.4      0.1      1.1      1.1      1.4      2.4       3.4        4.4       5.4       3.2        1.5      1.5      1.5
Financial Rate of Retarn  33.7% (8efore interest sod incore tan)
1/ 207. of total investment.
2| 807. of total investment, 17% interest, 8 years including two years of grace.
3/ 16% interest.
4/ 25% as plant vould be owned by produceTs; after interest charges and Me.$ 0.7 M depreciation charge.
March 29, 1978



MEYIOD
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FrutPackingF Plant
eabFo    r1ectiop
(Mea$ Millions)
---------------------------------------------------------------------  Years - --------------------------------------------------------------_ -----___                    ---_ ---_ _
1        2        3        4         5        6        7        8         9       10       11       12        13       14        15       16       17        18       19       20
Income
Borrover's equity 1/                          1.4      1.2       --       --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --       -        --        --       --        --       --       --        --       --
Long term  loan 2/                            5.5      4.6       --       --       --        --       --       --       --       --        --       --        --       --       --        --       --        --       --       --
Short term loan 3/                            0.1      1.0
Total Sales                                                      9.4     14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1               14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1
Last Y-ar'a Cash Balance                     _         0.1      0.1       1.3      1.4       1.3      1.1      0.3      0.1      0.1       0.2      0.3       --       0.7      1.4       2.1      3.2       1.5      0.2      0.7
Total Cash Inflow                             7.0      6.9       9.5     15.4     15.5     15.4    15.2    14.4    14.2    14.2    14.3    14.4             14.1    14.8       15.5      16.2    17.3      15.6    14.3    14.8
Expenditures
4/                                                                                                                                                                                   2.2       2.2
Investments: Fined assets                     6.9      4.0      --        --       --       --        0.6      --       --       --        --       0.6      --        --       --        --       0.6      --        --       --
Working capital                --       1.8       -                  -        -         -       -         -        -- -      -       s         -        --        - -               --        --        -        -
Operating Costs         ca                              --       5.4     11.7    11.7    11.7        11.7     11.7     11.7    11.7       11.7     11.7      11.7     11.7     11.7      11.7    11.7       11.7     11.7     11.7
Debt Service:
Long term lean prinoipal                  --        --       --       0.7       0.8      1.0      1.1      1.3       1.3      1.3      1.3       1.3      --       --        --       --        --       --        --       --     S,
Long tern loan interest                   --        0.9      1.6      1.6       1.5      1.4      1.2       1.0      0.8      0.6      0.4       0.2      __        __       __       __        __       __        _ 
Short term  loan principal                --        0.1      1.0      --        --       --       --        --       _-      -_       -_         --                          __       _         __       __        __ -_
Short tern loan interest                  --        0.0      0.2           --   -    -        --       --   -                 _-       --        --        -                 -- --              -- ._    __
Incone tan  5/                                --       --       --                 0.1      0.1       0.1      0.2      0.2      0.3       0.4      0.4       0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5
Dividends Distributed                                                              0.1       0.1      0.2      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.2      0.2       1.2      1.2       1.2      0.8      0.8       1.0      1.4       1.6
Total Cash Ostflow                            6.9      6.8       8.2    14.0    14.2    14.3    14.9    14.3    14.1    14.0    14.0    14.4                 13.4    13.4       13.4     13.0    15.8       15.4     13.6      13.8
Cash Balance at Yearn' End                0.1       0.1      1.3       1.4      1.3      1.1      0.3       0.1      0.1      0.2      0.3       --       0.7       1.4      2.1       3.2      1.5      0.2       0.7      1.0
Financial Rate of Return 14.77<RBfere interest and income tax)
1/  207. of total inves,ent.
2/  807. of total investmnt,  177,interest, 11 years including two years of grace.
3/  16% interest.
4/ Transportation equipment replaced in yearn 7-12-17, utilitiee, rachinery and equipeent inyearn17-18 including engineering and overhead end physical contingencisa.
5/ 257. as plant v.uld bh caned by producers, after interest ch-rges and Me.S 0.6 M depreciati-n ch-rge.
March 30, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Logging  and Sawmill
Cash 'low Projection
(Mex $ Million)
--------------------------------------------------------------  Years  ----------------___________________________________________________
1      2       3      4       5       6       7      8       9      10      11     12      13      14      15     16      17      18      19      20
Income
1/
Borrower's equity                   0.3    0.6      --      --      --     --      --      --      --     --      --      --     --      --      --      --      --      --     --      --
Long term loan 2/                   5.4   11.2      --      --      --     --      --      --      --     --              --      --      --     --      --      --      --      --     --
Short term loan 3/                  0.1    1.0      --      --      --     --      --      --      --     --      --      --      --     --      --      --      --      --     -       -
Total sales                          --      --    8.8   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3
Last year's cash balance             --    0.1    0.1    2.3    2.2    2.0    2.2    0.1    0.3    1.2    2.1    3.5    1.5    2.9    4.3    5.7    7.1    2.7    0.4    0.8
Total Cash Inflow                   5.8   12.9    8.9   15.6   15.5   15.3   15.5   13.4   13.6   145   15.4   16.8   14.8   16.2   17.6   19.0   20.4   16.0   13.7   14.1
Expenditures
4/
Investments:  Fixed assets          5.7    9.5      --      --      --     --    2.2       --      --     --      --    3.4      --      --      --      --    7.8    5.7       --      __
Working capital       --    2.3      --      --      --             --      --      --     --      --         --          --      --      --      --      --     --      --
Operating Costs                      --      --    2.2    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5
Debt Service:
Long term loan principal           --     --      --    2.4    2.8    3.3    3.8    4.3          --      --      --            --      --      --      --              --     --      --
Long term loan interest            --    0.9    2.8    2.8    2.4    1.9    1.4    0.8          --      --      --      --     --      --      --      --      --             --      --
Short term loan principal          --    0.1    1.0       --     --      --      --      --                                                                                                    0
Short term loan interest           --    0.0    0.2       --     --      --      --      --     --      --      --     --      --      --      --      --      --     --      --      --
5/
Income Tax                           -.      --    0.3    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4
Dividends Distributed                --            0.1    0.8    0.8    0.3    0.3    0.3    4.5    4.5    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    2.0    2.0    5.0    5.0
Total Cash Outflow                  5.7   12.8    6.6   13.4   13.5   13.1   15.4   13.1   12.4   12.4   11.9   15 3   11.9   11. 1            1.9    11.9   17.7   15.6   12.9   12.9
Cash Balance at Year's End       0.1    0.1    2.3    2.2    2.0    2.2    0.1    0.3    1.2    2.1    3.5    1.5    2.9    4.3    5.7    7.1    2.7    0.4    0.8    1.2
Financial Rate of Return 30.4% (Before interest and income tax)
11  5%. of total investment, as most logging and sawmills would belong to low income producers (Ejidatarios).
2/  95% of total investment, 177. interest for 7 years including two years of grace.
3/  16% interest.
4/ Civil works replaced in year 12, transportation equipment in years 7-12-17 and equipment in years 17-18, including engineering and overhead and physical contingencies.
5/  25% as plant would be owned by producers (Ejidatarios), after interest charges and Mex.$1.4 M depreciation charge.
March 30, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
FIRA Training Program 1978-80
Annual-Program            Participants/Year        Cost p.a.    Foreign
Other Orga-           Mex.$ M       Exchange
Duration  Frequency    FIRA   nizations   Total   1978-80          _ -
Graduate Level Training within Mexico                 Months    Per Year
Masters degree                                       24           6            4          2          6      1.50          _
Tree fruits                                           1           2           30         30         60       .75
Evaluation of agroindustry projects                   1.5         1           20         20         40       .60          _
Dairy productinn                                      1           2           60         60        120      1.50          _
Beef production                                       1           2           40         40         80       .75          _
Other livestock - swine, poultry, goats, bees         0.5         1           60         60        120      1.00
Agriculture - crops, irrigation, machinery            0.7         5           75         75        150      1.25          _
Subtotal                                                                     289        287        576      7.35          -
Graduate Level Training outside Mexico
Masters degree                                       24           6            5          1          6      2.50           )
Livestock - dairy, nutrition, beef, swine             4           6           30          -         30      4.90            9
Agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,                                                                                   )90
small seeds, machinery                               3           4           20          -         20      3.25           )
Agroindustry                                          3           3           15          3         18      2.50           )
Organization of producers                             3           3            3          3          6       .50
Subtotal                                                                      73          7         80    13.65
Other Training within Mexico
Low income producers                                  0.5        76            -       1900       1900      6.00           -
Other producers                                       1          24            -        600        600      6.00           -
Scholarships for undergraduates                       6           -            -        110        110      3.10           -
Scholarships for subprofessionals                     6           -            -        160        160      4.20           -
Agricultural credit                                   3           1           50         50        100      3.00           -
Short-term farm courses                               0.25      125          375        875      1,250      3.00           -
Short-term administration courses                     0.25       87          331        278        609      1.50           -
New FIRA technicians                                  6           1          100          -        100      6.25           _
Participating bank technicians                        2           1            -         50         50      2.00           -
Administration costs                                   -          -            -          -          -      4.00           -
Teaching facilities                                                                                           35x
Consultants                                           3           8                       -                 2.80          90
Subtotal              -                                                      856      4,023      4,879    42.20            6
TOTAL                                                                      1,218      4,317      5,535    63.20           23
March 3, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FIRA Demonstration Centers Program 1973 - 1976
Number of Programs, Cost, Staffing, Training
- - - Training - - -
Technicians
Programs                1973         1974         1975           1976        Total    %       in Charge   Technicians   Farmers
- - - - - - - - --  Mex$  '000 - - - - - - - - - - -
Dairy                  533 (1)   4,060 (5)   5,643 (6)   10,159 (16)   20,395   86.0               27          2,107        3,928
Beef                    -           -            -              130 (1)        130    0.5           1            -             -
Other Livestock         -           -            -              188 (2)        188    1.0           2              75          315
Forages                 -           -            440 (2)    1,473 (9)        1,913    8.0          10            713         1,642
Irrigation              -           -            -              166 (2)        166    0.5           3            -             -
Crops                   -           -            -             490 (4)         490    2.0           5             104          365
Horticulture            -           -            -              471 (5)        471    2.0           5              77          174
TOTAL                533 (1)   4,060 (5)   6,083 (8)   13,077 (39)   23,753  100.0               53          3,076        6,424
US$'O00i/               43          325          487            872          1,727
( ) Number of centers.
1/  Exchange Rates:  1973   -   12.5
1974   -   12.5                                                                                       t l
1975   -   12.5
1976   -   15.0
March 2, 1978



- 73 -
ANNEX 1
Table 25
MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Demonstration Centers Investment Program, 1978-80
- - -  Year - - -               US$
Program                                       1978   1979   1980   Total    '000
- - - Mex$ Millions - - -
Grazing dairy production
Existing centers (13)                      13.28  16.47  17.14    46.89   2.039
New centers (2)                             4.75   2.43   4.44    11.62   0.505
Subtotal                             18.03  18.90  21.58    58.51   2.544
Beef production
Existing centers (1)                        0.20   0.30   0.50       1.0    0.043
Forage production
Existing centers (5)                        0.47   1.60   2.13       4.20   0.183
New centers (2)                             0.30   1.20   1.50       3.00   0.130
Subtotal                              0.77   2.80   3.63       7.20   0.313
Total                                 19.00  22.00  25.71    66.71   2.900
March 2, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Weights and Prices for Livestock Development Models
Carcass    Boneless Meat
Liveweight      Dressing      Weight         Weight             Per Head      Liveweight
Category                       kg           Out %          kg             kg a/             Mex$          Mex$/kg
Dairy
Bull Calvesl/                       40              43            17             -                   300           7.5
Heifer Calves2/                     60              45            27             -                 1,500          25.0
Heifers in Calf./                  450              50           225             -                10,000          22.2
Cull Cows                          450              50           225            157                4,500          10.0
Heifers in Calf4/                   -               -             -              -                15,000           -
Dual Purpose and Beef
Steers (1-2 years)                 200             50            100             -                 3,000          15.0
Steers (2-3 years)                 400              54           216             -                 5,500          13.8
Steers (2-3 years)                 425              55           234             -                 6,000          14.1
Heifers (2+ years)                 350              52           182             -                 5,000          14.3
Cull Cows                          350              50           175            122                3,800          10.9
Cull Bulls                         600              55           330             -                 7,000          11.7
Fattening Steers:
Purchase                        300             52           156              -                4,350           14.5
Sell                            400             54           216              -                5,500           14.1
Gain                            100             -             60              -                1,150            -
Swine
Finished Pigs                       95              75            71             -                 1,900          20.0
Cull Sows                          180              80           144             -                 3,300          18.5
Cull Boars                         180              80           144             -                 3,060          17.0
Milk                         Mex$/liter
Dairy                           4.50
Dual Purpose                    4.20
M x
a/ Meat Yield = 70%.
1/  1 week.         2/ 4 weeks.      3/ Local.       4/ Imported.
March 1, 1978



MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Prices Used in Economic and Financial Analysis
_-_---_-------------- Economic-----------------------
Item                Unit           Financial        1977          1978          1979           1980          1985
Maize              (Mex$/ton)          2,900         2,360         2,660          2,960         3,150         3,155
Wheat              (Mex$/ton)          2,050         2,300         2,590          3,040         3,500         3,590
Soybeans           (Mex$/ton)          5,500         5,720         5,050         5,090          5,110         6,300
Cotton             (Mex$/ton)          7,650         8,350        10,200        10,010          9,800         9,350
Sorghum            (Mex$/ton)          2,030         2,200         2,450         2,680          2,790         2,770
Beefl/             (Mex$/ton)         14,300        14,300        14,300        16,500         18,500        18,600
Milk              (Mex$/litre)          4.4           4.4           4.4            4.4           4.4           4.4
Cocoa            (Mex$'000/ton)           20            15             17            10             9             6
Sugar              (Mex$/ton)            255           255           255            288           314           367
1/ Average liveweight price of steers 1-3 years.
March 29, 1978



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
ANNEX 2 - Banco Nacional de Credito Rural
1.        Background.  Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola (Banco Agricola),
the first public agricultural bank in Mexico, was established in 1926 to serve
all categories of farmers with credit and technical assistance. Banco Nacional
de Credito Ejidal (Banco Ejidal) was set up in 1935 for financing ejidatarios.
Both banks comprised both central and regional offices. In 1965, the Govern-
ment established a third institution, the Banco Nacional Agropecuario, which
was conceived initially of as a refinancing bank but which developed into a
third parallel system including eight regional affiliated banks. Despite
many deficiencies, the public agricultural banking systems made significant
progress in their credit operations and growth of the network of offices and
staff, with substantial Government support. It is estimated that between
1970 and 1975 the volume of credit provided by them ro&s from about 5,800
million pesos to 13,000 million pesos, the number of offices from 550 to
705, and their staff from 7,700 to 20,600. Though the Banco Agropecuario
system was considered to be operationally and financially sounder than the
other systems, the public agricultural banking system suffered from several
important weaknesses including: (a) duplication of facilities and the lack
of interinstitutional coordination on lending terms and policies; (b) a large
backlog of irrecoverable and overdue loans not adequately covered by reserves,
compounded by lending for projects which were desirable for social or political
reasons but which involved a substantial subsidy; (c) the failure to mobilize
rural savings; and (d) financial losses due to insufficient margins, ineffi-
cient operational performance and unremunerative non-credit activities. It
was against this background that Government decided in January 1975 to improve
the coordination among the national agricultural credit institutions and to
strengthen the banking system, mainly for low-income producers, ejidos and
other organized groups of farmers. In July 1975, Banco Nacional de Credito
Rural (Banrural or BNCR), was established to amalgamate the three banks as a
first step to correct these operating and financial deficiencies.
2.        Structure.  The Federal Government is the majority shareholder in
the Banrural; the remaining shares are held by Bank of Mexico, National
Financiera, ANAGSA and ANDSA. On September 30, 1977, the fully paid-up
capital and accumulated reserves amounted to Mex$3,202 million, as shown in
the balance sheet (Annex 2, Table 1). These reserves do not include addi-
tional reserves created by BNCR to cover overdue and other loans of doubtful
recovery (para 5). BNCR holds all the shares of each of the 12 regional
banks, which, legally, are independent companies; in addition, BNCR owns
the majority share capital of two other banks (Banca Promex--51%, and
Banco Provincial de Sinaloa--93%).
3.        BNCR has its head office and three branch offices in Mexico City.
The 12 regional banks have 447 branch offices. The Board of Directors of BNCR
consists of 13 members, eight of whom are nominated by the various Government
departments. The Chairman is the Secretary of Agriculture and Hydraulic



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Resources and members include the Secretary for Agrarian Reform, the Secretary
for Finance and Public Credit, the Secretary of the Ministry of Programming and
Budgeting and the Director General of Banco de Mexico and CONASUPO. Additional
members are nominated by Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, ANAGSA, the
National Confederation of Smallholders and the National Farmers Confederation.
4.        Administration and Staff.  A general manager and four assistant
general managers head the bank's administration. At the time of merger,
BNCR took over all the staff of the three banks, and the total number of
employees presently is approximately 22,000--2,600 in BNCR head offices
and 19,400 in the 12 regional banks. About 6,300 are classified as field
personnel, the others are administrative and office staff. As a result of
the amalgamation of the three banks, staff could have been considerably
reduced, but in line with Government policy, any reduction will be only
effected through normal attrition. BNCR management is planning to retrain
some of the employees to achieve a better balance and distribution of admin-
istrative and technical personnel.
5.        Financial Resources.  The Government fully covers all admini-
strative and general expenses of the BNCR and furthermore provides a grant
equivalent to 25% of the volume of lending operations carried out each year.
This grant is based on an estimate that about 25% of the lending operations
are made for social or other reasons and would not be recoverable. These
grants have enabled BNCR to create large reserves which cover almost fully
all overdue loans to date in addition to about 25% of the loans outstanding.
BNCR also partially finances its lending operation by short-term and medium-
term borrowings from foreign banks; these borrowings are fully guaranteed by
the Government, which assumes the foreign exchange risk. On September 30, 1977,
the outstanding foreign currency debt of BNCR was about US$1,200 million.
6.        Use of Resources.  The main operation of BNCR is short-term lending
to organized groups of low-income farmers, ejidos and individual smallholders
to finance agricultural crop and livestock production. In 1976, total lending
operations amounted to Mex$20,400 million, only 10% of which was for medium-
and long-term credit. Total lending in 1977 was Mex$25,700 of which 13%
comprised medium- and long-term loans. The lending program for 1978 totals
Mex$28,000 million, of which 14% would comprise medium- and long-term
development loans. Part of BNCR's medium- and long-term development credits
are rediscounted by FIRA; the outstanding balance of such rediscounts
amounted to Mex$4,000 million on September 30, 1977. BNCR estimates that
it provides short- and long-term credit for about 28% of the country's agri-
cultural production excluding sugar. It predominantly services low-income
producers; 92% of its clients are ejidatarios and it accounts for 75% of the
institutional lending to ejidatarios.
7.        Interest Rates.  Interest rates on medium- and long-term credits
rediscounted by FIRA to BNCR presently range between 7.6% to 14.5%. For
short-term credit, BNCR interest rates to farmers have increased from 10-11%
to an average 16% since October 1977.



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        Accounts and Auditing.  Accounting procedures of BNCR and the
regional banks are adequate. Accounts are audited by external auditors, and
balance sheets of BNCR and its regional banks are published. Consolidated
comparative balance sheets and income and expenditure statements for the last
three years are in Tables 1 and 2.
9.        Current and Future Objectives.  Overcoming the weaknesses and
deficiencies inherited from its predecessor institutions will take some time,
but a rehabilitation program has been initiated. BNCR management is making
serious efforts to unify the operational procedures and increase coordina-
tion and efficiency. The Bank has had a continuous dialogue with the Govern-
ment and BNCR management regarding the changes and improvements in its operations.
In November 1977, the Government and BNCR agreed that all subloans would be
classified at time of loan approval into loans which constituted normal bank
lending operations and those whose full recuperation was doubtful and which
were being undertaken for social or other reasons. This latter financing was
to be granted from special Government trust funds to be established with BNCR
for such purposes. At September 30, 1977, about 22% of BNCR's medium- and
long-term loan portfolio was more than 30 days overdue. BNCR has initiated a
program to clear this portfolio of overdue loans through loan rescheduling,
legal and other actions. A special department has been established for this
task. In addition, improved reporting procedures on loan collection have been
introduced to enable management to undertake necessary actions on a timely
basis. The higher interest rates and more aggressive collection of overdue
loans should increase BNCR's current income and cover at least part of its
administrative expenses, which presently are entirely paid by the Government.
The BNCR program therefore should result in the gradual strengthening of the
operational and financial structure of the institution.



MEXICO
1IXTH AGRICILLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE CREDIO RURAL, S.A. (BNCR)
Conparati-e Balance Sheets as of Dacnber 31, 1975-1976. od September 30. 1977
(Hea$ Millioe 1/
December 31, 1975            December 31, 1976           September 10, 1977 V/                                                    De.ember 31, 1975              December 31, 1976            September 30, 1977 21
Ampunt          %            Asount          7.           Amount          7.                                                      Amont                          Amount           7.           Aunt               7
ASSETS:                                                                                                                       LIABILITIES:
1.  Liquid A-eta:
C1 b ad Rk of Meelco            301.3                        550.7                      2,021.9                         1. Sigbt Ltabilitite-
Mexic-n & foraig. beekb         509.0                        550.0                        686.9                               Sight deposits                       557.3                         618.0                          620.1
Othee current asa.tn             72.8                         80.5                         96.5                               SaingS. deponits                                                                                   82.7
Baebe and correopondeete             35.3                          225.4                         267.1
883.1         3.4          1,181.2         3.4          2,805.3          6.4                  Other sight liabiliti-s           3.198.9                        6,145.0                        8,580.1
3,791.5          14.4         6,988.4          19.1          9,550.0          21.9
2. Invesatments in Rsnarlttas:
Covern. eEt aserities           764.6                      1,442.7                        922.3
Piodaimc-oe secritits          727.0                      1,057.4                        865.8                         2. Term liabilities
St_ck                            78.9                         98.8                        177.0                               Term-depoeits                                                                                      20.6
Loans ftem banks                 17,282.1                       22,563.0                      28,150.8
1,570.5         6.0         2,598.9          7.4          1,965.1          4,5                  ltbir teem labilition               254.2                          735.8                          262.5
17,536.3          66.8        23,298.8          66.2         28,433.9          65.3
Di counts                        95.7                        156.4                        123.1                         3. Financtil BRndo                                                                                      181.6           0.4
Direct and eecured loans      1,868.2                      2 162.0                      2,700.1
Short-crer  loans             8 260.0                      9.259.2                     11,171i0                         4. Other deposits sod
Medium- and lcng-tsrm  loano  5,506.4                      6,753.7                      9,032.5                               liabilities                          949.7                          729.9                         959.0
15,730.3       59.9         18,331.3         52.1         23,026.7        52.8            5. DRferred charges                         95.4                           95.5                           38.1
6. Rae-roen for various
4. Other Assets:                                                                                                                    liabilitiro                          490.7                          716.4                       1,181.0
Othet operations and
Covrne2t respcastbilitloo2/   _                            2,682.2                      5,010.2                                                                  1,535.8           5.8          1,541.8           4.4         2,178.1            5.0
Variou. debtor., not 4/       5,460,2                      7,225.7                     8R011L8
Voriooa ansere, net           1,428.3                      1,531.6                      1.731L5                         7.  Equity
6,888.5        26.2         11,439.5        32.4         14,753.5         33.9                Capital stock                        1,251.5                        1,500.0                       1,500.0
Leana   nd other reonroos            2,252.9                       2,254,0                        2,195.8
5. Machinery, equipment, -et          756.2         2.9          1,139.1          3.2           328.0          0.8                Accoooloted  eps..                   ( 103.5)                       ( 374.0)                       ( 494.3)
6. Real aotats and ether                                                                                                                                               3,400.9          13,0          3,380.0           9.6          3,201.5           7.4
properrtt-                      295.9         1.1            312.0          0.9           371,7          0.9
7. Anticipated paymero-  mnd
deferred charge_                140.0         0.5            207.0         0.6            294.8          0.7
Total Liabilitimo and
T',tal Aosoto:                26,264.5        100.0        35 209.0        100.0        43L!!5.1        100.0                  Eqoity:                           26,264.3         100.0         31,209 .0        100.0         43,545.1         100.0
/  Rat-o of ..hoange - Decembor 31, 1975 - US$1  = Mfen  12.50
Deceobec 31, 1976 - US$0   Mex$ 19.95
Septeobe- 30, 1977 - US$1  fMea$ 23.00
2/ Unodi ted.
3/  Total of loans ootatandins hba  been redoced by estimated stoot of leers of do-btful recovery,  bhici Ia coverod by ro-eroe oraated from  soboidy
allotted tc E88CR by Goveranont.
4/  Imolodes -nt aon,t of overdo0 loon,, after dedocti-o of overdue loa1o folly co-rod by re-artae, a abo.
5/ Mainly fore-iS exchange rato alffoetece- or et-er-ol borrowings, payable by Goroernent.
FPbroory 28, 1978



- 80 _
MIXICO
ANNEX 2
SIXTHI AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                              'able 2
BANCO NACIONAL DE CREDITO RURAL, S.A. (bNCR)
Consolidated Statements of Income and Expenditures
December 31. 1975-1976 and Sentember 30, 1977
(Mex$ Millions)
December 31, 1975             December 31, 1976             September 30, 1977             December 31, 1977
(Estimated)
Amount           %            Amount           h             Amount          _             Amount            %
INCOME
1.  Interest - collected
and accrued             1,178.6         10.3          2,319.3         20.6          1,857.8          20.3          2,500.0          20.3
2.  Coimmissions - collected      37.7          0.3             42.1          0.4             63.8          0.7             80.0            0.7
3.  Recoveries                    40.8          0.4             54.3          0.5             32.2          0.4             40.0           0.3
4.  Various other profits        405.9          3.5            354.8          3.1             45.8          0.5              80.0           0.6
5. Profits from sale of
merchandise                23.2          0.2              33.9         0.3              10.8          0.1             10.0           0.1
6. Profits from industrial
enterprises                                                                             97.3          1.0            120.0           1.0
1,686.2         14.7          2,804.4         24.9          2,107.7         23.0          2,830.0          23.0
7. Subsidies received
from Covernment         9,765.1         85.3          8,462.C         75.1          7.050.0          77.0          9,500.0          77.0
8.  Total income              11.451.3        100.0         11,266.4        100.0          9.157.7        100.0         12,330.0         100.0
EXPENDITURES
9.  General expenses          1,811.0          15.6          3,549.C         30.8          3,066.4         32.8          4,100.0           32.7
10.  Interest paid              1,366.7         11.8          2,365.C         20.5          1,547.7         16.5          2,100.0           16.8
11. Depreciation, write-
offs, etc.                468.2          4.1            470.6          4.1              61.2         0.6              80.0           0.7
12.  Various losses               186.8          1.6             62.8          0.5              7.3          0.1              32.0           0.3
13.  Real estate expenses           7.0                          11.3         01               5.6                            8.0
14.  Commissions                   29.2          0.3             27.F          0.2             35.5          0.4             50.0            0.4
15. Various non-specified
expenses                  11'.0         1l0              88.5          0.8              27.1          0.3             50.0           0.4
16.  Others                        11.2          0.1            168.4          1.5
3,995,1         34.5          6,743.4         58,5          4,750.8         50.7          6,420.0          51.3
17. Transfer to reserves
for overdue and
other loans             5,004.0         43.2          4,790.4         41.5           4,611.1         49.3          6,100.0          48.7
18. Write-off of losses at
time of merger          2.583.5         22.3
19.  Total expenditures        11,582.6        100.0         11,533.8        100.0          9,361.9        100.0          12,520.0         100.0
20.  Net loss                     131.3                         267.4                         204_2                          190.0
February 28, 1978



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data
Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A.1 IBRD, Mexico: Economic Report: Agricultural Sector Annex
(Draft dated November 28, 1977)
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Mexico Sixth Agricultural Credit Project: Ranch, Farm and
Agroindustrial Investment Models
B.2  FIRA, Sexta Solicitud de Prestamo al BIRF, October 1977;
and supporting documentation
B.3 FIRA, Informe Anual, 1976
B.4 Ley General de Credito Rural, 1976
B.5 Nacional Financiera S.A., Annual Report 1976
B.6 FONDO, Audited Balance Sheets, December 31, 1976
B.7 FEFA, Audited Balance Sheets, December 31, 1976
B.8  BNCR, Audited Balance Sheets, December 31, 1976
B.9 ANAGSA, Five Year Report, 1971-1976
B.10 Financiera Nacional Azucarera S.A., Annual Report 1976






ME CL)                                 a                                                 'va0e                                                                                                     :2HUm&v.                                           
-'a- -~--~X-'~                                                                                                                   A'        #j44n~ttA7PQ                     %  2                                             cea
P'a'"  .                         -                                                                                 AX"    'XP-N            '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E IC  0i
Cwda.ds                                                                                  SJATtaN.MEIO a-c
P,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ia4.~'~                                                                                                                                                        Pn-..r~aa
~~7  *"""' ~~~~~~~Na~~~  -~~~  0LiA.5'  'at,                                                              '~~~~~~~~~~~N:'nkTaAfrasa          ~      ~      ~     ~     ATEAL
~~'~~~"NIX~~~~  Csjdadjaaana.  nAaj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~frn4A~~~~~X.  ~~~~                                                                                                     ->           JAMAICA0  L $LV
SD.              S.b    -Ni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  '~?atiX                                           L"a                                                         ANM/
N-,                                             'D A  H  1, I L A4          N-
-N                          t~~~~~ 
_                                                                                    SO, acs~~~~~~~~~, 
A   'N    NC-                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '"
-'                  -                                                   ?                                 -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TL,   '
N'                                                                                       *'ACNTFRXLa~~~~~~~~~~~~ZCTEASC d   M.T". YC
P'S~~~~~~~~~N
Masaa4                P'ns,IIn.~~Z                          AMCUCTAS
MEXICO                                                                      CALIENJF~ C-  f                                                                                                                                            S a
'K.                        a                                                                                    A  TnEALa N,
BY     REG IO N                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Snlbnaa'' 
DISTRIBUTION OF FIRA  OFFICES 7.                                  (~~~~~~~~~~~~ (Das   CE~A'A, p  -tG-
CdGLADA' n AzL      _s'a a            a''   san6M           4                                                                            Y    C     TA            
BYRgiREGOfiONPaes-a
a.              'CEL A       MA  .A- aC      'atPCI
State Offices                                                 Ko 4            e"4 T                                      E 'L        X tC'#               %'/$   KAAP0
* ~tl_MA              *Aap-aaa,(K-HETUMALMT
--  Agencies                                                                                          OHX N                                   APJ3A CadaArEARZ.t-CaT'ICTML
V  CaA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,4.~~~~~~~~ IA aagaE-Ca  -                                                      P
L ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ a Nd                                                   L,, --R
Regionial Boundaries                                                                                                                 J-                                        'a2rU                             sna..
State Boundaries                                             I                                                                                                                               aasae           'Ni'
I                               (~~~~~J ERR  RHO    a                MDAaAC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  Maan-anR--a  TLIXTLAGUTIERREZ
0   100       200o     300       400       500                                                                                                                                                        4                   
I    I         I        a                  I7/d nil-nR,                               cprdpsaWadSs/NaaraaaiApfpIoatasRa                                                                                                        U TM L
KILOMETERS                                            at(E ad&   t t anan0, Wher Ra nsssdY Th.dptsn*la sB i ad 5/R                                                                               &c                                              ODUA
Rsondssanaowaaatfoeaatd toswia nonpasontRl
-~                                                                                                                       K-li



