t j   jr ;>C                                    Document of
4 i                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION                       Report No. P-2315 --E
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 3, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorination.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$1 = Mex$ 12.50 which had prevailed
since 1954 was abandoned on September 1, 1976 and the Mexican peso has been
floating since then. In recent weeks the rate of exchange has fluctuated in
the range of Mex$ 22-23 to the US dollar. On April 28, 1978 the peso traded
at 22.68 per US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BANRURAL - National Rural Credit Bank
FEFA      -  Special Fund for Agricultural Finance
FEGA      - Technical Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund
FINASA    - National Bank for the Sugar Industry
FIRA      - Agriculture Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
FONDO     - Guarantee and Development Fund for Agriculture
PIDER     -  Investment Program for Rural Development
SARH      -  Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SRA       -  Secretariat of Agrarian Reform



VOa OFFICUAL W ONLY
MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Naciona:L Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:           United Mexican States
Project Executing
Agency:            Agriculture Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FIRA)
Amount:              US$200 million equivalent.
Terms:               RepayabLe in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at an
interesit rate of 7.5 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    About US$193 million of the proposed loan would be relent
through the Agriculture Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
(FIRA) iEor on-farm investments and establishment of agro-
industries. Terms and conditions of the subloans would
vary wiith income level of beneficiary and size and purpose
of the subloans; repayment periods would range from 3 to
15 years, including grace periods of 1 to 3 years, and
interest rates would range from 11 to 17 percent per
annum. The lowest rate would be applied to first time
borrowers with low levels of income (annual income of
less than 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage in
the region), and the highest rate would be applied to
loans oE Mex$ 5 million or more.
Project              The project seeks to increase the production of key
Description:       agricultural commodities to meet demand in a rapidly
expanding domestic market, as well as to increase income
and employment in rural areas. It would provide medium-
and lon,g-term credit for investment in livestock production,
annual iand perennial crop development, and agroindustries.
It woulid include a low-income producer's component, com-
prising approximately one-third of the lending program,
for producers with net annual earnings of less than 1,000
times the regional minimum daily wage. A program of
applied research, training and monitoring would provide
technicial support to credit operations. About 67,000
families would benefit from the project; their real
incomes are expected to, on the average, double within
six years. The project would create over 14,000 full-time
jobs and about 4,000 man-years of temporary employment
annually. The project has no special risks.
This document h  a mtrictod distribution and may be usd by recipients onb in the performance
of their oicbl dutba Its contents nmy not otherwhe be disclosd without World lak authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:      The estimated total cost of the project is US$627.2
million of which US$175.0 million would be in foreign
exchange:
----US$ Millions-----   Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
I.  Investment Program                      432.8   171.1   603.9         28
Livestock Investments                   205.9    78.4   284.3         28
Crop Investments                        181.1    75.9   257.0         30
Agroindustrial Investments               45.8    16.8    62.6         27
II.  Training, Demonstration,
Technical Assistance, and
Monitoring                               19.4      3.9    23.3        17
Training and Monitoring Programs          7.9      2.3    10.2        23
Demonstration Program                     2.1      1.1      3.2       34
Technical Assistance Program              9.4      0.5      9.9        5
III.  TOTAL PROJECT COST                       452.2   175.0   627.2        28
Financing Plan:                                   US$ Millions       X
FIRA                             244.0         39
Beneficiaries                     96.9         15
Participating Banks               86.3         14
Bank                             200.0         32
TOTAL                            627.2        100
Estimated
Disbursements;                        Bank FY 1979    1980    1981    1982
------------US$ Millions------------
Annual                      28       58       78       36
Cumulative                  28       86      164      200



- iii -
Economic Rate       The estimated economic rate of return of the overall
of Return:        project is 28 percent; for individual components it
ranges from 17 percent for the agroindustrial component
to 35 petrcent for the crops component.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 1968-ME, dated May 1, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
-TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE iGUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the guarantee of United Mexican States
for the equivalent of US$200 million to help finance a sixth agricultural
credit project. The loan would be repaid over 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum. About US$193 million of
the proposed loan would be relent through the Agriculture Trust Funds in the
Bank of Mexico (FIRA) for on-farm investments and establishment of agro-
industries. Terms and comditions of the subloans would vary with income
level of beneficiary and size and purpose of the subloans; repayment periods
would range from 3 to 15 years, including grace periods of 1 to 3 years, and
interest rates would range from 11 to 17 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. An economic mission visited Mexico
in April-May 1977 and its report is now in preparation. The discussion which
follows reflects the preliminary findings of the mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averaged less than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation. The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct investments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but led to a sharpening of
contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution under the
reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land could not
improve their economic status in the absence of basic infrastructure, credit
and technical assistance. Rapid population growth made social equity even
more difficult to achieve. Population growth in Mexico accelerated steadily,
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tropical Agricultural Development Project (R78-81 of April 13, 1978).



- 2 -
primarily as a result of reduced death rates, and reached 3.5 percent per
year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high demographic growth rate made
adequate absorption of the labor force in productive employment difficult.
Some 40 percent of the labor force is either relatively unproductive and
poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped
to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest annual growth rate experienced by Mexico
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged
since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained rather
stable at rates fluctuating between 22 and 23 pesos per dollar. Following
the devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last
quarter of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million.
For 1977-79, an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-
year stabilization program was negotiated, which could provide as much as
an additional US$861 million once the increase in Fund quotas becomes
effective. Thus, total IMF support for the Government's program may exceed
US$1.3 billion. The new Government ratified the agreement with the IMF
shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to date has complied
with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office on December 1, 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, in-
creasing foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management
indicated a need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also
called for more expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net
private investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and
growth of the labor force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the best
way to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the
coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities are adopting a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority
public expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with
petroleum and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Govern-
ment's program include progressive control of inflation together with a
return to high rates of economic growth by the end of 1978. Better manage-
ment of public sector expenditures, more rational pricing and cost control
in public sector enterprises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage
increases to justifiable levels, and more effective cooperation with the
private sector are important parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        The measures instituted by the new Administration have already
produced good results. Inflation in the twelve months of 1977 slowed to 20.7
percent (January-December) as compared to an annual rate of 60 percent in



- 3 -
the last three months of 1976. The deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments has beern reduced, and is estimated preliminarily at
US$2.2 billion for 1977, compared to US$3.5 billion in 1976. Total public
sector financial requirements dropped from 10.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.9
percent in 1977. Mobilization of savings by the banking system is increasing.
Perhaps most importantly, there is a general feeling of increased confidence
in the Government's economic policy.
9.        The stabilization effort during 1977 was necessary, but its price
has been the continuation of economic stagnation; for a second year in a row
GDP grew only by about 2 percent in real terms, implying a further decline of
real per capita income. While control of inflation will remain as the over-
riding short-term objective--the Government's announced target is to reduce
inflation to about 12-15 percent during 1978--the 1978 economic program aims
at a simultaneous recovery of economic activity, through a recovery of private
and public investment. Increased public sector savings, further strengthening
of the financial system and therefore increased availability of credit to the
private sector, and continuation of a carefully managed wage policy (the
annual increase in minimum wages agreed upon in January 1978 averaged about
14 percent) are the main means the Government will rely upon to attain the
above objectives.
Economic Issues and Prospects
10.       As Mexico looks alhead, the key problems that its economic policies
must address would seem to include the following:
(a) Many Mexican families have not participated in the sustained
economic growth oE the last several decades. As of 1975,
about 4,600,000 Mexican families--45 percent of the total--
receive incomes equal to less than one-half the national
average. The members of most of these families work--more
than half of them in agriculture--but they produce little
and receive little. Mexico's labor force is now growing
even more rapidly than in the past--it will grow at about
3.6 percent per year over the next decade, which implies an
average annual increase by some 670,000 workers during 1978-82;
during the 1960s the growth rate was 2.7 percent per year.
The challenge of providing productive jobs for both new
entrants and existing under-productive workers is an awesome
one.
(b) Crop and livestock, production in Mexico, which had grown by
6 percent per year during 1945-55 and 4.2 percent per year
during 1955-65, grew at only 2.1 percent per year during
1965-75. This neaLr-stagnation of agricultural production
signals the end of' the strategy in which growth of agricul-
tural production came from newly irrigated land, while rain-
fed agriculture wa,s relatively neglected. The continued
expansion of large-scale irrigation, so successful from
1945 into the 1960s, has brought lower and lower returns as the
works became costlier and easily accessible export markets for
high-value crops became more nearly saturated. New approaches
are required now to assure both production growth and increases
in income for Mexico's poor rural families.



- 4 -
(c)  The size and role of the State in the economy has been a
subject of much discussion in Mexico in recent years.
During 1970-76, private investment slowed down, and virtually
stagnated since 1975. This was, in part, a consequence of
the pre-emption of credit by the public sector (during the
six-year period, the share of the public sector in the
economy grew from 15.0 to 21.5 percent), combined with infla-
tionary financing and accompanied by what some perceived as
an "anti-business" attitude. Public statements by the present
Administration indicate that it wants to reverse this trend.
(d)  The present large foreign debt and sizable public finance
deficit are mainly the direct outcomes of past public sector
inability to mobilize adequate financial resources. By the
early 1980s, large increases in export revenues, mainly from
petroleum and related products, should make both the foreign
debt problem and public finances much easier to manage. In
the meantime, however, larger public sector savings are
required to reduce inflationary pressures and to release
credit for the private sector.
(e)  The rapid growth and heavy concentration of people and
production in Mexico City, and the scarcity of employment
opportunities and services in rural areas, are important
challenges which have to be confronted. Both equity and
efficiency considerations imply a need for diversion of
some of Mexico City's future growth to other regions, as
well as the provision of basic public services and enhanced
employment opportunities in selected villages and small
towns.
11.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
14), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment, could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining five years of the present Administration.
Resumption of economic growth combined with the intensification of the
Government's family planning program (on October 28, 1977 President Lopez
Portillo announced the ambitious goal of reducing the population growth to
2.5 percent per year by 1982, then progressively to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3
percent by 1994, and 1 percent by the year 2000), the new emphasis on rainfed
agriculture, and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing
productive employment should help to address the structural problems mentioned
above.
12.       In agriculture, the Government's quick action to defuse tensions
created by land invasions and expropriations at the end of 1976, and its
decision to review the legislation concerning land and water use, should



reduce uncertainty and induce a better use of the available land and water
resources. In addition, the new emphasis on rainfed agriculture--which
had been relatively neglected in the past--should lead to an increase in the
production potential of vast areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal
of the past trend towards 'Larger income disparities between the modern and
traditional agricultural subsectors. Current features of the Government's agri-
cultural policy include development of intensive agriculture in the tropics,
continuation of a nationwide program to construct small irrigation and drainage
works, and rehabilitation of existing irrigation districts to increase efficiency
of water use. These initiatives, together with the more realistic exchange rate
and remunerative support prices, promise a resumption of growth of production for
both domestic and export markets and increase the possibilities of an improvement
in the living conditions of the rural poor.
13.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products.
Increases in tourism export earnings are also expected.
14.       Among the benefits of recent public sector investments are the
new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the recent discover-
ies of rich petroleum fields. The Government has decided to use these large
hydrocarbon resources to help manage Mexico's heavy debt service burden and to
enhance the country's over-all development prospects. To meet this objective,
PEMEX (Petroleos Mexicanos, the State-owned oil monopoly) has launched an
ambitious six-year investment program amounting to US$17.0 billion in 1977
prices (about 25 percent of total public investment). This program would:
(a) almost triple the production of oil and condensates, from 292
million bbl/year in 1976 to 818 million bbl/year in 1982;
(b) more than double the country's primary distillation
capacity, from 270 million bbl/year in 1976 to 577 million
bbl/year in 1982;
(c)  substantially increase production of primary petrochemicals
(ammonia, ethylene, benzene, etc.) as well as downstream
products (styrene, vinyl-chloride, polyethylene); and
(d)  enable export of natural gas at a rate of 2.0 billion
cubic feet/day by 1982.
Under this program, the value of exports of oil and related products would
increase over ten times, from about US$0.9 billion in 1977 to more than
US$10.0 billion in 1982. If this program were to be carried out on schedule,
and incentives maintained for non petroleum exports, the balance of payments
on current account would shift from a deficit of US$2.1 billion in 1977 to
a surplus of about US$3.0 billion in 1982.



-6-
15.       The prospect of rapidly rising petroleum exports, as well as pre-
viously mentioned prospects for increases in tourism earnings, recovery of
agricultural exports, and resumption of growth of manufactured exports, have
greatly strengthened the balance of payments outlook. Even on the basis
of somewhat more conservative projections of petroleum production and exports
than those mentioned above, the current account deficit can be expected
to decline steadily over the next several years and become slightly positive
by 1982, thus reducing Mexico's external borrowing requirements (Annex I).
Mexico's debt service ratio has been increasing over the recent past and
reached 46 percent in 1977. This comparatively high debt service ratio
is more a reflection of the low level of exports relative to GNP and the
high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks than it is an
indication of a high level of external debt relative to the size of the
economy. When middle income developing countries are ranked by the ratio
of external public debt to GNP, Mexico appears about average. The debt
service ratio is expected to peak at slightly over 50 percent in 1979 and,
mainly as a result of the rapid expansion of petroleum exports, then decline
sharply to levels of around 30 percent in the early 1980's. Debt service on
Bank loans amounts to about 4 percent of public debt service; this ratio is
projected to decrease over the next two years and to increase to some extent
afterwards. The Bank currently holds about 8 percent of Mexico's total
medium- and long-term public debt, and this ratio is likely to increase to
some extent over the next few years. Mexico remains creditworthy for borrow-
ing on conventional terms considering the country's strong medium- and long-
term potential and the comprehensive economic strategy which the Government
has adopted to realize it.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
16.       As of March 31, 1978, Mexico had received 50 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2624.4 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 33 loans totalling US$1486.4 million were fully disbursed. As of
March 31, 1978, the Bank held US$2136.8 million of which US$761.1 million
had not yet been disbursed. Some 35 percent of Bank lending has been for
agriculture and rural development (15 loans for US$923.4 million), 27 percent
for power (12 loans for US$704.8 million) and 21 percent for transportation
projects (12 loans for US$546.7 million); the remaining 17 percent has been
for industry (US$205.5 million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism
(US$114 million) projects. Mexico is carrying out a stabilization program and
because of scarcity of counterpart funds, some projects fell behind schedule
in 1976 and 1977. Following review with the Government, a steel loan was
terminated (Sec M77-258 of April 5, 1977), the scope of an irrigation project
was reduced and US$100 million from the original US$150 million loan were
1/   Part II is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tropical Agricultural Development Project (R78-81 of April 13, 1978).



- 7 -
cancelled (R77-305 of December 13, 1977) and the scope of several other
projects has been modified.. Other projects under implementation and affected
by the stabilization program are being reviewed by the Government, and further
discussions will be held wiLth the Bank shortly. Adequate budget support for
the ongoing projects has now been secured. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
17.       As of March 31, 1.978, IFC has made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.5 million, of which US$38.4 million had been sold,
repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$31.1 million,
consists of US$26.2 million in loans and US$4.9 million in equity.  A summary
statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1978 is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
18.        The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to: (i)
support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the benefits
of economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading to continued
economic growth, by helping to finance projects that are to make directly or
indirectly significant contributions to output, exports, and employment;
and (iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently
facing. In support of the administration's economic stabilization efforts,
it is proposed that limited finance of local costs be provided for priority
projects of a social nature in which the foreign exchange costs are low. The
Bank is preferentially supporting projects that make relatively modest demands
on budgetary resources and have a strong positive balance of payments effect,
projects of high social priLority that help the rural or urban poor, projects
that promote higher levels of employment and production and those that help
to decentralize economic activity. The proposed Sixth Agricultural Credit
Project essentially meets t:hese criteria since it would promote the adoption
of improved agricultural techniques, stimulate private investment in the sector,
and provide special assistance to the subsistence farmers and ejidatarios. 1/
19.        In view of the diLfficult structural problems of Mexico's agriculture
and the sector's crucial imaportance to the country's further development, the
Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. Consistent with
the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a three-tier approach
has been developed. First, to strengthen infrastructure development and
agricultural credit programs so as to meet the demands of a rapidly growing
population more adequately and to generate the foreign exchange needed for
rising import requirements.. Second, to raise the incomes of the rural poor
and improve their standards of living through a combination of directly pro-
ductive, support and social infrastructure investments. Third, to strengthen
1/   Eiidatarios are members of an ejido, which is a form of group land tenure
based on usufruct.



-8-
Mexico's institutional capability to use scarce agricultural resources more
efficiently. In support of this strategy, the Bank has made six loans in
FY's 72 through 76, totalling US$459 million, for irrigation, rural develop-
ment and agriculture and livestock credit programs. In FY77, the Executive
Directors approved a US$120 million loan for an integrated rural development
project--PIDER II--under which some 46,000 poor farm families will benefit from
directly productive activities. An agricultural development project, designed
to intensify agricultural production in Mexico's humid tropics, was recently
approved by the Executive Directors.
20.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Govern-
ment's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize
industrial activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban
areas. Thus, a major steel project which the Bank helped finance has recently
started operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of
Mexico, and the Executive Directors approved a US$50 million loan in FY75 to
support a fertilizer project which promotes new poles of development in the
resource-rich southeast region and the north central area. A project to
promote the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and a third
industrial equipment fund project were recently approved by the Executive
Directors. A fertilizer project is currently being processed for submission
to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
21.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing: the Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Third Railway Project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City Water Supply Project (FY73) has been instrumental in the estab-
lishment of a specialized institution for efficient supply of bulk drinking
water in the Mexico Valley and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs.
22.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas, and several projects are now being
prepared to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor families in
selected priority cities. One such project, to assist in the development of
the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area, was recently approved by the Executive
Directors.
23.       The Government, pressed to reduce the external deficit on current
account, is giving emphasis to the tourism sector to generate higher foreign
exchange earnings and promote employment. In support of this policy, the Bank
has granted three loans for tourism projects in Mexico; two to provide infra-
structure in new poles of tourism and one, approved by the Executive Directors
earlier this year, to help finance tourism superstructure.



-9-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
24.       During the period 1945-1965, agricultural output grew at a rate of
more than 5 percent per annum. Since the mid-1960s, however, the growth in
production of crops in general and of cereals in particular has fallen below
the growth in domestic demand, while livestock production, accounting for
about one-third of the sector's output, has been growing consistently around 5
percent per annum. As a result, the share of agriculture in GDP fell from 16
percent in 1969 to 9 percent in 1976.
25.       More than 22 million of Mexico's 62 million population live in
rural areas. Agriculture is by far the most important source of employment
with about 40 percent of the national labor force of about 17 million persons
engaged in agriculture, forestry or fishing. The rural population comprises
three distinct groups of nearly equal size: (i) landless workers, (ii)
private landholders; and (iii) eiidatarios. The number of landless families
is increasing rapidly because of limited availability of farm land, even
though almost half of the new entrants to the labor force migrate to the
city.
26.       The Mexican agricultural sector is marked by wide disparities in
resource endowment, technology, productivity, and income. The fifteen percent
of Mexican farmers with irrigated holdings produce sixty percent of Mexico's
agricultural goods. Most of the remaining farmers are of low productivity and
barely participate in the market economy.
27.       In the past, most of the growth in agricultural production came
from irrigated areas. A program of large scale irrigation works resulted in
a five fold increase in pro,duction over the period 1940 to 1965, a growth that
is among the highest in Latin America. The concentration of public investment,
technical assistance, and farm credit in the irrigation districts enabled 3
percent of Mexico's farms to provide 80 percent of the growth in production
between 1950 and 1960. This experience suggests that coordinated development
efforts could stimulate agricultiral production again, as they did in the past.
28.       Between 1915 and 1965 over half of Mexico's arable and pasture lands
were distributed to landless families under a pioneering agrarian reform pro-
gram. Many of the farmers benefitting from this massive land redistribution
program also benefitted from the irrigation programs but those who did not
benefit from irrigation received few public services and therefore were seldom
able to exploit the land initensively. In an effort to correct this imbalance
and to bring redistributed :Land into more productive use, the Secretariat of
Agrarian Reform (SRA) and the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
(SARH) are intensifying technical, promotional, and organizational assistance
to farmers and are encourag:ing assistance from credit and marketing agencies.
Government's Program
29.       The agricultural policy of the Mexican Government has in recent years
focused on three main objectives: (i) self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs;



- 10 -
(ii) increased production of export crops; and (iii) raising incomes and
living standards for the poorer sections of the rural population.
30.       The Government is restructuring its agricultural development stra-
tegy to put the sector on a more competitive basis and to provide access to
modern farming to a higher proportion of its rural population. This approach
would attempt to increase yields through modernization of farming techniques
in existing areas and through opening up of new areas, mainly in zones of
favorable rainfall. The strategy calls for investments by the Government
in education, applied research and extension as well as in physical infra-
structure for access roads, land clearing, marketing and storage facilities,
drainage and small-scale irrigation. At the same time, the Government would
stimulate private investment through the credit institutions. The Bank is
supporting the Government's strategy in both these areas. The tropical agri-
cultural development project, recently approved by the Executive Directors,
will help finance a program of public investments in agricultural infrastruc-
ture, applied research, and extension; the proposed credit project would
support private investment in agriculture and agroindustries.
Crop Production
31.       The dramatic growth in agricultural production between 1945 and
1965 (para. 24) largely came from expansion of agricultural land and concen-
tration of technical services on irrigation districts (para. 27). However,
since 1965, growth of cultivated area has slowed to less than one percent
per annum, and the major increases in production have come from improvements
in yields. While programs to increase cultivated area are underway, parti-
cularly in the tropics, major emphasis is being given to stimulating agri-
cultural production through: (i) adoption of better technologies; (ii)
provision of technical services; and (iii) credit for farm investment. SARH
and FIRA have played major roles in developing farm technologies. The basic
research institutes of SARH have improved plant varieties and developed
more efficient pest and disease control measures. SARH has improved
efficiency in use of irrigation water and recently began a new extension
program for rainfed agriculture. FIRA has helped in the application of
these new technologies to increase farm output and to lower production
costs; it has been particularly successful in introducing improved crop
varieties and in improving pasture management. FIRA has also stimulated
farmer interest in new technology through a program of demonstration farms
and has improved the quality of banks' technical services by training their
technicians. Finally, FIRA plays a leading role in promotion of private
investment in agriculture by increasing supply of credit through the public
and private banking system and by organizing the small farmers into groups,
thereby reducing credit risks. These activities of FIRA would be further
expanded under the proposed project.
Livestock Production
32.       Beef.  Beef production grew at a rate of 2 percent per annum
between 1960 and 1965 but accelerated dramatically to 5 percent per annum
between 1970 and 1975 due to improvements in husbandry and genetic quality



- 11 -
as well as favorable market prospects. FIRA has promoted the adoption
of new farm technologies that improve animal nutrition, reduce disease,
better breeding practices, and increase the profitability of beef
operations. Similar activities would be supported under the proposed
project.
33.       Milk Production.  Total milk production in 1975 was estimated at
4.8 million tons produced by about 4.2 million cows. Nearly 80 percent of
total production is from about 2 million dairy cows located predominately in
the central plateau temperate zone, while the remaining 20 percent is produced
by around 2.2 million dual purpose cows in the tropics. About 85 to 90 per-
cent of the national consumption of milk is supplied by domestic producers,
and growth in domestic production is lagging behind demand.
34.       Commercial herds; generally feed on irrigated alfalfa in the spring
and summer and on forage oats and corn silage supplemented with high levels
of concentrates in the autumn and winter. Although average daily production
under this system is reasonable, the cost of production is high because of
the large use of concentrates. Technicians of FIRA and SARH have, however,
developed a low cost milk production program that reduces costs by as much as
30 percent by grazing herds on permanent legume-based pastures; extension of
the low-cost milk production system would be promoted under the proposed
project.
35.       Pork.  The slaughter of pigs has grown at the rate of 10 percent per
year between 1970 and 1975 to 6.5 million head per annum, due to availability
of lower cost sorghum feed and increases in consumer demand. Hog producers
sell either to small processing plants, or to dealers authorized to slaughter
hogs at the municipal slaughterhouses. There is, however, a need for
specialized slaughterhouses in order to improve hygiene standards and to
utilize the by-products efEficiently; these are some of the activities that
would be supported under tehe proposed project.
36.       Agroindustries.  In 1975 the food processing industry (excluding
beverages) employed 337,800 persons and had a total output value of Mex$
86,600 million--18 percenit of the total value of industrial production.
During the past 15 years, relatively rapid expansion has taken place for:
meat processing plants; grain mills and silos; fruit and vegetable packing,
storage, and processing plants; and vegetable oil processing. The Government
has provided incentives and financial support for both private individual
operators and groups of private or ejido producers, and these enterprises have
been important in providing additional employment opportunities in smaller
cities and rural areas. In view of growing domestic demand for processed
agricultural products and Mexico s access to the United States market, invest-
ment in agroindustrial activities is expected to remain high in the future.
The proposed project would provide credit to agroindustries.
Agricultural Credit
37.       The Government has been promoting the development of the agricul-
tural credit system in Mexico through three measures: (i) establishment of
a series of trust funds in the Bank of Mexico that rediscount agricultural



- 12 -
loans, provide technical assistance and guarantee repayment of loans (para.
38); (ii) establishment of public banks to provide agricultural finance to small-
holders and ejidatarios, and for such other purposes as are not yet readily
served by private banks (paras. 41, 42); and (iii) provision of incentives and
a legal framework to encourage private lending to agriculture (para. 43). As
a result of these measures, the volume of agricultural credit has grown from
Mex$ 10 billion in 1965 to Mex$ 47 billion in 1975.
38.       Trust Funds.  The Agriculture Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico,
collectively known as FIRA, consist of three trust funds sharing common
management and staff. The primary trust fund, the Guarantee and Development
Fund for Agriculture (FONDO), established in 1955, rediscounts short term
loans for annual production credit made by private and public banks. The
Special Fund for Agricultural Finance (FEFA) was established in 1965 to
channel foreign loans such as those from the Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank, with corresponding counterpart funds in local curency, to
medium- and long-term loans in support of investments in agriculture, live-
stock and agroindustries. The operations of FONDO and FEFA initially concen-
trated on commercial producers, but have expanded to provide investment credit
to low-income producers. In support of the latter expansion, the Technical
Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund (FEGA) was established in 1973 to
provide technical assistance and to encourage private banks to lend to low-
income farmers by guaranteeing a portion of the sub-loans.
39.       Beginning with funding under the Alliance for Progress program,
FIRA established a special program to aid low-income producers. 1/ The Bank
specifically supported the low-income producers' component beginning with the
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 910-ME of June 1973); about 20 percent
of that loan was allocated to low-income farmers. The support was expanded
under the Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1217-ME of March 1976) in
which 47 percent of on-farm lending was allocated to low-income producers.
FIRA has been an active participant in Mexico's Investment Program for Rural
Development (PIDER), which will benefit some five million individuals with low
incomes in one hundred micro-regions. Bank has made two loans in support of
PIDER totalling US$230 million, of which US$57.5 million was allocated to
agricultural credit through FIRA for low-income farmers. FIRA will also play
an important role in the Tropical Agricultural Development project (approved
by the Executive Directors earlier this year) which is part of a larger
program to develop intensive agriculture in the underutilized humid tropics;
US$11.3 million of the US$56 million loan is allocated to agricultural credit
through FIRA primarily for low-income farmers. In addition, four loans from
the IDB have included credit through FIRA for low-income farmers.
40.       FIRA has helped strengthen agricultural lending institutions in
Mexico by expanding its rediscounting facilities and by providing technical
assistance. FIRA's rediscount operations have increased from 5 percent of all
1/   Low-income producers are defined as farm families whose net annual family
income does not exceed 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage rate for
the zone in which they live.



- 13 -
agricultural lending in 1965 to over 20 percent in 1976. It now employs over
700 technical specialists aad has trained over 1,200 technicians and credit
specialists from participating banks. As a result, investment projects are
appraised systematically before the sub-loans are made, and technical assist-
ance is also offered by the financial institutions during supervision of their
loans. The lending policies in the sector are closely monitored by FIRA and
reviewed periodically with all the agencies concerned with lending in the
agricultural sector.
41.       Public Banks.  Nearly 60 percent of all agricultural credit is
channeled through the public banking system. The largest public agricultural
bank, the National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL), handles mostly short term
credit to low-income farmers.  BANRURAL was created in 1975 by merging three
public banks, the Banco Ejidal, Banco Agricola and Banco Agropecuario. The
Government and BANRURAL have agreed on a comprehensive program to improve
BANRURAL's operations by: (i) eliminating duplicate branch offices; (ii)
instituting a program of loan collections and improved monitoring of loan
repaymens; (iii) separating lending operations from social welfare programs,
financing each separately; (iv) increasing margins to cover progressively
greater portions of administrative expenses; and (v) streamlining administra-
tion and reducing overhead. BANRURAL is implementing a multi-year program
along these lines.
42.       The other public bank serving the farming community is the National
Bank for the Sugar Industry, FINASA, which has sole responsibility for short-
and long-term lending to sugarcane producers and to the sugar industry. All
loans to cane producers, such as those to be provided under the proposed project,
are channelled through the mills and, to the extent possible, are in kind (such
as fertilizer, tractor services, and transportation). The loans are recovered
when the farmer delivers his cane to the mill, which is the sole purchaser
of cane in its geographical jurisdiction. During the 1975-1977 period, FIRA
rediscounted Mex$ 146 million of medium- and long-term credit extended by
FINASA benefiting 37,500 ha and 13,500 farmers.
43.       Private Banks.  Until the establishment of the FIRA rediscounting
facilities, commercial banks were hesitant to undertake agricultural term-
lending because of the short-term nature of the bulk of their resources,
problems in obtaining collateral, and their lack of familiarity with the sector.
This situation has changed appreciably in the last decade, largely owing to the
support extended by FIRA in terms of funds and services. The Bank of Mexico
has encouraged this trend biy stipulating that an amount equal to 2 percent
of the total deposits in baLnks be held in the form of agricultural loans
to low-income producers, arid reimbursing through FEGA the costs of technical
assistance and loan guarantees for such producers. Private lending was
further promoted by the 1975 Rural Credit Law which clarifies the legal frame-
work for lending, including the availability of guarantees and establishes a
mechanism to aid marginal producers who would not otherwise be in a position
to receive credit. Many private banks have, as a result, established agri-
cultural credit departments; and hired significant numbers of agricultural
technicians. The private banks have expanded their lending to farmers from
around Mex$ 3 billion in 1965 to nearly Mex$ 18 billion in 1976, and the
proportion of loans rediscounted with FIRA has increased from 16 percent to 35
percent between the years 1965 and 1976.



- 14 -
Experience Under Previous Credit Projects
44.       The Bank has made five loans totaling US$400 million for agricul-
tural credit projects executed by FIRA. In addition, three Bank loans for
agricultural and rural development include US$63.4 million for medium- and
long-term development credit earmarked for low-income farmers. Excepting for
the amounts reserved for low-income producers in the rural development
projects, the previous loans have been disbursed ahead of schedule; all the
funds under the Fifth Project are committed and are expected to be disbursed
by October 1978, nine months ahead of schedule. Inter-agency coordination is
being improved and provision of technical assistance intensified to increase
the absorptive capacity of low-income producers.
45.       A Project Performance Audit of the Third Agricultural Credit Proj-
ect (SecM77-353 of April 27, 1977) carried out by the Operations Evaluation
Department records the achievements of the project as well as the deficiencies.
The institutional growth of FIRA has been a major accomplishment of the program
as illustrated by impressive expansion and up-grading of FIRA staff, decen-
tralization of operations, support to participating banks, and maintenance of
standards. Loan funds have been used effectively; only 4 percent of the par-
ticipating banks' portfolio of loans made under the project was overdue more
than six months. However, the economic rates of return on subloans financed
under the project are now estimated to be between 12 and 20 percent as compared
to the appraisal estimate of 24 percent overall. Rates of return of livestock
operations have tended to lie in the lower end of the range due, in part, to
the tendency of sub-borrowers to pursue development programs with less emphasis
on pasture intensification. The Project Completion Report for the Fourth
Agricultural Credit Project is under preparation. The findings are similar
to those for the Third Project, but subloan recovery has improved further;
a sample of 35 percent of the subloans reveals overdue amount to be less than
I percent. The Fifth Project continued the improvement in agricultural credit
institutions. Financing of repeater purchases of breeding stock have declined
and the monitoring unit of FIRA has been strengthened.
46.       The issues raised during the course of implementation of previous
projects have been discussed with FIRA authorities. Under the proposed Sixth
Project, efforts would be made to further strengthen technical assistance
to sub-borrowers, to improve the performance of the monitoring unit, to
maintain at reasonable levels the rates of purchase of breeding stock, and
to expand the demonstration facilities of FIRA. The low-income producers
component introduced under the Fourth Project would continue to be an impor-
tant feature of the Sixth Project.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Sixth Agricultural Credit Project,"
No. 1968-ME, dated May 1, 1978 is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The project was prepared by FIRA and was appraised by a Bank
mission in November 1977. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. on
April 27, 1978. The Mexican negotiating team included Mr.Horacio Garcia Aguilar,
Director of FIRA, and Mr. Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo of Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Protect Description, Its Cost and Financing
48.       As indicated in the Loan and Project Summary, total project costs
are estimated at US$627.2 million equivalent. The Project would include invest-
ments in annual and perennLal crops, livestock, dairies, and agroindustrial
enterprises as well as training, demonstration, technical assistance, and
monitoring activities. The proposed loan would finance 32 percent of project
costs equivalent to the foreign exchange component (US$175 million) and US$25
million of local currency expenditures benefitting low-income producers. The
balance would be provided lby FIRA (US$244.0 million), the sub-borrowers (US$96.9
million) and participating banks (US$86.3 million).
Training, Demonstration, and Technical Assistance
49.       Investments in training, demonstration, and technical assistance
would ensure farmers' effective use of credit and acceptance of new tech-
nologies. The project would strengthen training of technical staff of FIRA
and participating banks. The monitoring unit in FIRA would be strengthened
and the program revised to place greater emphasis on review of issues arising
during project implementation. The proposed loan would finance the foreign
exchange cost of these activities (US$3.9 million) and US$3.3 million of local
currency expenditures.
Beneficiaries
50.       Low-Income Producers.  In spite of the ongoing programs, the majority
of Mexican farmers still use traditional methods, have inadequate or no access
to technical assistance, improved seeds, fertilizer, or pesticides, and remain
largely outside the market economy (paras. 26-28). FIRA, through its own
programs and participation in larger efforts such as the PIDER rural develop-
ment program, is playing an important role in providing modern technology and
inputs to many such farmers (paras. 38-40).
51.       The proposed project would continue to support FIRA's program for
assistance to low-income piroducers. The low-income producer program would
include: (i) credit at preferential interest rates ranging from 11 to 14



- 16 -
percent per annum; (ii) intensive technical and organizational assistance;
(iii) guarantee of up to 80 percent of the value of subloans through FEGA
(para. 38); and (iv) reimbursement by FEGA of the participating banks'
technical assistance expenses. One-third of on-farm lending under the
project would initially be earmarked for low-income producers, but the demand
for funds from this target group would be reviewed periodically to provide for
adequate financial support of the low-income farmers on the one hand, and to
avoid accumulation of excessive foreign funds with FIRA if, in spite of FIRA's
best efforts, the credit demand from these producers is less than anticipated.
In support of FIRA's promotion of increased lending to low-income farmers, the
Bank loan would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of such subloans
and US$21.7 million equivalent of local costs.
52.       Other Beneficiaries.  The Government is concerned about the slow
growth of farmers' productivity (para. 24) and capacity to generate savings for
further investment and therefore places great emphasis on the timely provision
of credit. To support the government's efforts, the Bank loan would finance
the foreign exchange cost of subloans to farmers with a net annual income in
excess of 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage rate in the region, who
would receive credit at higher rates of interest and in general at less
favorable terms than would low-income farmers.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
53.       Terms and conditions of subloans would vary with income level of
the beneficiary, size of loan, and purpose of loan:



- 17 -
Maximum       Rediscount
Percentage       Rates to      Minimum
of Subloan    Participating   Interest
Sub-borrowers            Subloan Amount      Rediscounted        Banks         Rates
------% per annum-------
1. Low-income
sub-borrowers:
(a) on-farm
investment
projects:
(i) low-income       not more than             90              7.50          11.00
sub-borrowers    350,000 pesos
who receive
institutional
credit for
the first
time
(ii) other low-       not more than             90             10.50          13.50
income sub-       1,000,000 pesos
borrowers
(b) agro-industrial       not more than            90             11.00          14.00
projects              2,500,000 pesos
2. Other sub-borrowers:      (i) not more than         90             13.00          16.00
on-farm investment            2,500,000 pesos
projects and agro-
industrial projects      (ii) more than             80            13.25           16.00
2,500,000 and
not more than
5,000,000 pesos
(iii) more than            70             14.50          17.00
5,000,000 pesos
Low-income beneficiaries would finance at least 3 percent of the investment
out of their own resources and other beneficiaries at least 15 percent. Sub-
loan repayment periods would depend on the beneficiary's projected cash flow
and would range from 3 to 15 years including grace periods of I to 3 years.
Terms could be extended to 20 years in special cases, with prior review with
the Bank. FIRA would seek the Bank's approval for rediscount of any subloan
over US$800,000 equivalent; the maximum balance outstanding to any one
beneficiary would be Mex$ 5 million (Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).



- 18 -
54.       The proposed interest rates are higher than the rates presently
charged by FIRA:
Interest Rates on Sub-loans
Proposed
Under the
Beneficiaries                                     Until now          Project
(Percent per annum)
Low-Income Producers                              9.5 to 11           11 to 14
Others                                           11.5 to 14.5         16 to 17
The Mexican authorities have a good record of reviewing and adjusting interest
rates periodically to promote financial intermediation in an unusually open
financial system, and traditionally they have managed to ensure comparatively
higher yields for peso deposits than for dollar denominated deposits in Mexico,
or dollar deposits abroad by Mexicans. The Government proposes to continue this
review process and adjust interest rates in the future. Given the Government's
policy to contain inflation (paras. 7 and 9) and its success, the proposed rates
are expected to yield positive real rates over the life of the sub-loans.
Livestock Purchases
55.       To encourage pasture development and to maintain investment in breed-
ing livestock at reasonable levels, the FIRA would ensure that (i) no more than
53 percent 1/ of the livestock development investment is utilized for purchase
of breeding stock, and (ii) replacement purchases are not financed under the
proposed loan (Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
56.       Since the agricultural lending activities would be implemented over
a three-year period, be widely distributed geographically, cover a variety of
farm/ranch investment activities, and involve a large number of sub-borrowers,
bulk purchasing under ICB would not be feasible. An adequate choice for
machinery, tractors and other agricultural equipment and inputs is available
to sub-borrowers through local and international suppliers and permits can be
obtained to import machinery and tractors in the horsepower ranges required
if they are not available in Mexico or in the event of a real scarcity.
Tractors up to 125 horsepower are manufactured in Mexico under franchise from
five major international firms and adequate competition and satisfactory
service and maintenance facilities are assured by the range of choice offered
and the extensive network of dealers. As in earlier projects, FIRA would re-
quire sub-borrowers to obtain quotations from several sources of supply, when-
ever practicable, for goods or works financed by it, and for imports of breed-
ing cows. Machinery and equipment for agroindustrial units would be purchased
by private producers or groups of producers. Whenever the cost of a single
item of equipment, or an assembly delivered by a single manufacturer, exceeds
US$250,000 equivalent, quotations would be solicited from not less than three
suppliers. Moreover, FIRA would make available to prospective sub-borrowers
1/   The weighted average of livestock purchases as a percentage of total
investment for the livestock development models used in the appraisal
of the project.



- 19 -
a list of suppliers of agroindustrial machinery, including in it those from
Bank member countries and Switzerland as well as their agents or representatives
or partners in Mexico. After the proposed loan is signed, FIRA would advertise
locally and notify all the embassies in Mexico of Bank member countries that
manufacture agroindustrial equipment, and Switzerland, of the details of the
agroindustries component of the project, giving broad particulars of the types
of machinery likely to be required (Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).
Disbursement
57.       The loan is expected to be disbursed over a three and one-half
year period ending mid-1982. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given
in the Loan and Project Summary.
Project Impact
58.       The livestock and agricultural components of the project would
benefit about 67,000 families directly. At full development the project
would create in the livestock sector an additional 8,000 full-time jobs and
an estimated 4,000 man-years of temporary employment annually. The agricul-
tural development would generate demand for an estimated 5,000 man-years
of hired farm labor and increase employment of family labor. Some 1,000
full-time jobs would be generated by the new investments in agro-industrial
enterprises.
59.       The project would help the participants to increase their net family
income substantially; on the average their real incomes would double within
six years. Low-income producers' annual family incomes before the project
average about US$500 in livestock enterprises and about US$1,000 in crop
enterprises; average incomes for these beneficiaries would increase to
US$1,300 and US$2,000, respectively. Other beneficiaries' annual family
incomes currently average US$4,000 for livestock enterprises and US$2,000
in crop enterprises. Their incomes are expected to increase to US$10,000 in
livestock enterprises and US$4,000 in crop enterprises. The individual
increase would depend on the characteristics of the farm enterprise. For
example, in the case of grazing-based dairy enterprises, beneficiaries'
incomes would more than treble, while under stabled dairy development,
beneficiaries' incomes would double.
60.       The project wou:Ld help increase production of a wide range of crops
and livestock products--particularly basic foodgrains, oil seeds, milk, meat,
fruits and nuts. The value of incremental production (at 1977 farmgate
prices) is estimated at US$115 million for crops and US$74 million for live-
stock products. Since domestic demand for agricultural products has out-
stripped domestic supply, and the marketing system is adequate to serve the
potential production areas, no problems are envisaged in marketing the incre-
mental output.



- 20 -
61.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 28 per-
cent; the rates of return on individual components are estimated to be
25 percent for the livestock component, 35 percent for the crops component
and 17 percent for the agroindustries component. In calculating the rate
of return, the shadow price for labor has been computed at rates varying
between 60 percent and 100 percent of the daily minimum wage rate to reflect
the degrees of unemployment in the respective regions.
Project Risks
62.       Because of the soundness of institutions involved, the project does
not have any special risks. However, the absorptive capacity for credit of
the low-income producers is linked to the effectiveness of the technical
services to be provided under the project. Also, external resources are being
allocated for this group under several other projects (para. 39). It is there-
fore possible that the loan amount earmarked for this group would be utilized
less expeditiously than the component for the other producers. In case of sub-
stantial delays, the Bank and the Government would reassess the needs of the
low-income producers and the desirability of reallocating the proceeds of the
loan.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco de Mexico, S.A.
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii),
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
May 3, 1978



IUNX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE JA
NIEXICO             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (rHOU KM2)                 ----'-------'-------------------- ----------------
L--A------  O----                                MEXICO                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1912.5                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     g5Q.0                       1iO         1970   ESTIMATE           BRAZIL         CHILE           SPAIN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     370.0      6SO.0    1090.0               550.0       120.0      1580.0.
____________________
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
___________________,___________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            36.0       10.4      62.0                92.8         9.4        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        19.0       26.0      31.0                11.0        12.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        3o.@       52.0       65.0                49.0        58.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.1       48.6      42.0                3B.4        32.9         21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE UTHOU,AV)            14.0       10.2        s.6                9.9        11.0         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         74.0      6.5        12.0               110.0        79.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        56.3      62.4       64.7                59.4        60.6        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2        3.1        3.0                2.6         2.2          1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (S)
TOTAL                                  3.1       3.5        3-5                 2.9         2.4         1.1
URBAN                                  4.9        4.8       5.1                 5.0         3.5         2.0
URBAN POPULATION I% OF TOTAL)           W0.7       56.7      63.3                 55.9       76.0         59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.8       46.2       46.3                42.0        39.0        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                       50.9       50.1       10.3                55,0        56.3        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.3         3.7        3.4                3.0         4.7         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0         1.0        1.0                0.8         0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO               1.6         2.0        1.e/a              1.5         1.6         1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..       55.5     321.1               250.0       403.5
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..      13.1                 1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         11300.0   13000.0   16600.0              29400.0      2900.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN A'GRICULTURE (1)         54.0       45.0      41.0                40.4        21.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..       6-6/b               7.5         4.1/a        I 1.1
tNCOME DISTR;BUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5s  OF HOUSEHOLDS           28.7  a  27.9           **                35.0  Ia   31.0
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS            58.8    a 58.3          **                62.0 7      55.8
LOWEST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             3.5        3           **                 30 7o       4.8
LOWEST  40X Of HOUSEHOLDS            1O.3 7    10.5          **                10.4     13.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
1 OWNED BY TOP 10 'OF OWNERS               .       37.1         ..               45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLESI 10% OWNERS            ..        0.3         ..                 1.s     
HEALTH AND HUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              1000.0    1430.0          ..             19to.0      2210.0 /    740.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2630.0 Lb 1620.0/a        ..             3220.0 /b  5830.0 7W
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            590.0 7f  960.0      830.0               260.0       270.0       220.o
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)         107.0     105.0      117.0               1o9.o       101.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               65.0       65.0      66.9                64.0        71.0        01.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0 /d   2s.0/b   27.5                   39.0        32.0        40.o
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             12.7        9.8        B.4.jL               .-        3.9          0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       80.0       104.0     111.0                87.0      107.0        123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      11.0       22.0      30.0                   .        39.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0      12.0                11.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                     24.0        24.0        ..                17 0        33.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 62.0 f    78.0        76.0               64.0        90.0         94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.2         ..                 1.0         1.3 /c
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
'PIPED WATER (%)                      76.0 /f   61.0 Ic /      .                73.0 /C    40.0  c.d
ACCESS TO ELECTPICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..       59.0         ..               48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                      ..       28.0        ..                  8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          95.0      276.0      301_0                60.0       143.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)           14.0       24.0       40.0                25.0        18.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           313.0      567.0     724.0               491.0        806.0      1834.0
NEWSPRINT 1KG/YR PER CAP)                2.8        3.2        3.6                 2.7         5.0          .
------------------------------------S------------------------ --------------------------- ------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



Pag4 2 of 4 page
NOTIt
U.lnbo  o;hftbru** o,tad, i.ta for 196  refer te   y year betuse   1959 l   161, for 1970 betwee  1949 ad 1971, mad for Most leart lstimate betwen
1973 end 19)J
00  lao_n  dcatrfbttion data for 1975 curretly balJI  reeleed.
55  SpaLs be  been slected a  an objective coe_try bcene  Its Per caita  ulfes Is higbhr th   Kllco'., ad because both countrie. hae In co. .n
tho iporta,ce of torim sd  the Influenc  of nearby ribebr coutries.
uxICO    16bo    /a  19163;    /b  include, midwifery and suralg anilliariesl    /c  1962;  fd  1961-62;    L.  Six yers ead over;    If  Inside
only.
1970    l   Including assistant mars.;    fb  1964-66;    A   imaid. only.
MST uCMrf ISTIOXX           /I  tatlo of populAtion ender 15  nd 65 sad over to total labor force;    /b  Larger ritle. ocly                /c  1972;
/d 1971.
aSAhIL    1970    js  Econdcally active populatioi    /b  lepital persooll    fc  Ingide oly.
ChILE      i97 O        Gran Santlago;    fb  Personel in government services only;    /c  Data refer to horahold;    /d  laside only.
SPADI      1970    /a  Employment office estiate;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
R11, April 20, 1978
-1                                                            XtNIo            5001 pl  mDICAIt55
Laud Arem (thou                                                                            Poo2tioo v rursinc parson -   puleci_ divded by mahr of pracricin5
T      - tots;  urfa- area  opritog land are  ad Inland watr. ra   d fMale gradate  -re                                            t "crems or  ye-rtifer of ure   end
Aerlo. - 0(00, recent netieta of erlc-ltural ares Wad tmporartly or pera-                    ozgili.ry persononl with toiing or e rience.
Osntly for crops, ptur, mrket & kitchso garden. or to lie fallow.                        PopulItio     ho          bed - PPoputiats   divided by .n.br of hoapimal beds
aalabla in public   d private 94wrl a_  *pecalisd hospital and
95? per osrct( ;              par c-pira  es -tte rurr-O nt -kt prics_,                      rhabilirttion, c nters, eclud*a esrmie   be  and etblishsato fo
calcu- 1t-d by am  coen-raion _athod  s borld lank Atlas (1973-76 bamia);                  custodial nd prevntfv .ors.
1960; 1970 .od 1976 da.                                                                   r capita suDPpl of oslorias (  ofeuir    Ul - Cputed Oron er
equivalPnt of Dat food upia s a vilble f  core  per capita per dy;
P.olIoc  _nd ltol s st                                                                       alable suppisa casp     dn_ttc prodction, imports le4 exports  and
Poonlacion eid-yoar million) - Am of Joly first:  if not av1ilabla,  -vrg,                   Conse  fn stock; net aplar exclud   nfi fsed,            a, qncits usd
o  two srd-vcos  setlto.; 1960, 1970 nd 1976 data,                                         to food processing ad lases tn diatributio; reqairmnt  re  estimted
4MMILti-dL-    - m   o - Kid-..r P-P1-tion Pr -varekilmomrby PAO based on pb"alolgical needs f-or "rel activity end hasth conid-
Populatioc dena    . - er squ4re or   -                                                      "id-ar population p r square   i  r  rfr   ovlrntl temperature, body vighta, age and .. dita"ibuio_  of
(100 bhtotcos) of coral ars                                                                 Population, ed allowing 101 for ets at boweebold laval.
Popolacbon denaicy  - eyus%a rm    of aErLIc. land - Casptd as above for                  PFr capita                MMpply of Proe  4x_ nr da) - prote4 content of per capita
agricultural land only                                                                     net Aupply of food p r day; aMt supply of food is dffad as shore; rrquirc-
tsort  for  11 contras. etabliabd by USDA goonone gaearb Oachics
VItal stetiatice                                                                         provide for a  Lia s allowace of 60 gr_ of total protsia Per dy, nd
'rud, birth rate oar thousand. evaraza - Annual Ifv  births per thousand of                  20 gram of anlal mad ple, proten, of which 10 grmm   hould be ennail
ld-ys-r population; ton-yeer arithotic  vnag_  ending in 1960 ad 1970,                     protein; thesa standerda ar lo_r than thae of 73 sgm   of total protein
sod ffve-year  aer.ege  oditag in 1975 for  mt  recent  ati .                                d 23 grm  of antmal protin *e aM  ,erage for tbh  world, propod by FA0
Crude death rate cc tJoand  *ver xa - Annual deaths per thousand of ad-yer                   ln the Thfrd 17orld Food Survey.
population; run-ear erithestic average  andi.. n 1960  nd 1970  ad fi-                   Per caPita protein aupoly fro an     l  Pd oolae - Protefa spply of fond
year euorae co-ing to i975 for  st recant astit.                                           dervd fraoeteata  and pulseird
Dufllt     ii-,rate Ihhou)  - Aul deths of infants undar ons year of age                        rate ffthol as  1-4 - ma,  dea.th  por tho,ead in  ge group 1-4
per thou-a     u   rth        -A                                                                   to sh.idr  nf  this age group; suggestd a* an lndicatnr of
Le xstanoc, atbrh_     rl - erga oubrc of years of life remaining at                    mlboutritbon.
birth; u--aIl, fi-y.ear  _rg_ andino  in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countriss                                                                            Education
tross rnrodrtocP rate  - t-*tg  n,ab r of Itve daughters a w              will bear        Adjusted enrollm t ratio  - ori mr school  -          ftulnr of a11 age a  par-
i      - bar   real roprod-crt    per1od if ah. eperIeaces prewsnt ags-gpecific            c_anr    of primry sbool-ags populatin; icludes childre  aged 6-11 years
focrtllcy  cao; wu.t y fioe-y0. averages  ndIng in 1960  1970 ad 1975                     but adjuated for different tgDth. of primary education; for countrisi  with
tor developing cc-c.cctaa          -                                                       universal education, antoltlant may  xced lO0  since em  pupils are bhlo
Populaliepcic ar/ t  c (!tL- totl -a cn.  annul growth rstma of mid-er                       or shove the officIal school ege.
PoPuIftion (or 195r-it5  1960-70 sad 1970-75.                                            Arjuste e        n ratio -.                 elc
I  jg M_cou covtb r.lp__j!   c,rha, - ;_xp.Cod li kw gr_oth rats of total                 edctn,rqiSat least four Year. of approed Primary las rct ion;
Populatio; diffret dofluitiotS of orbe  ars my  ffact cuaprobility of                      Pr-ovfde ugnas, vocatioaal or tea,her tmining Iastructiona for pupils
dat a..meg cn,ao                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of ago; correapodeoca .0aswee  ame generalyexlued
Orbac *     tlt -S! o      j   - ltio of orba to total population; diff,rent               Teaa of chootitt er       d (    e   * eecp   level    - Totl  ars  of
definition, of orb., *rea msy  ffect toprbility of dat   _   coustriea                     scoolig; at eec           l    ,c                        ma  be fr     or
cIeptlly socludad.
ma strcture r    ce      - Childrn (f-1u yersl)         i.-age (15-44 yer)                 Vocational etolle  tl of econatrt) - Vocatioal iaritutloa Include
And rtired  (61 yer. and over)  a prcnca of midyer    platiast technical, iAdustrial or othar progr_ whib operate indepadetly or 
Age dpeo adoucy- coto - Ratio of Ptjtolarcon under 15 and 65 ead over to the                 departmets of s-tondar,y totitotioctr
of afos 15 through 9.1.                                                                  Adult lIterary maom (1     - tiltrate adlts (eble to read end -It-)asp-
Oconocic OO95OdcO o netI  - Rt-ilo cC royclotln ondar 15 -nd 65 ad uver to                   tentags of total  dult population aged 15 yeas  and over.
tho lObor  crcr 4-  a go fr-P of 15-64 year.
Fenlil olsc4lc.6_. a -5!ptc_'a..{(.laiue thou)   lasa-tlve number of acceptors             B
of hirri-cootroc dcvts w cF oder auaploeo of national faily planning proera              Prsopa per roon (urban   - Averag   nbr of person  per roa  In occupied
F_llc  -i0ctico.                                                                              conventfonl d4elling. in ur7bn arena; dwllng  clude DOn-permanent
Fith lanIg-ta.I               eo,o       g      P--Pretage. of mtrried  Mmu of              -trcruce  and maccpied parts.
thild-&eari.g ago (15-44 e70r5) who use birth-control devices to a11 smarIed             occupied dvellinus withot sloed water tI  - Occupied oonveotionaI doeliog
w,meitn Itc Oir ago group.                                                                  to orbs,, nd rur-l ares without intid  or ooutid  piped water facilltfis
aS percentage of a11 occupied deIlicJe.
necloymant                                                                      Acceas~~."i11~   to alactril,yC    faldeloa    C- toetlonsl deollinge with
Total labor force C  ousand,   IU oncei_lly actOrs perPonm, including ard                    elctricity in livingH qurters - p        nt of tfoal dllingp  i   rba    d
forcea mnd ,    toyed bu- eoladig housewives, studnts,  tc.; definition.                   rural areas.
-  rc.  in o-trIAesare             i Oc t     lbcepar  (i.     f   ing  frIurI d_itlir  conn cted to electrIcitItY  M  - Coputed a  above for  rural
buoting mad fiobhig) a  percentags of total Ibor forc.
17nams (   of  laborforts   - Unemployed  re usually defined a  persona, eo                 Con u.ptioo
ar.ble and elIlfeg to take a job, out of A Joh on a given day, rassind ont             Sdorcies(a  hup p       l   ya   frcieefrrdobodar
of   job, sod oekling so rb for a specified sinim   period noat c din4 one                  to geer    ic r to            A       d of  p   ltion; ecluds Parlic   ed rc;eu-
snob;aay at 4.otasprablebeteen contrie  dueto different d.fieliton,           10 countri6o and in yearswhe  reitainofrdont wei fet
of oeeplycd end sctuc  of date, *eg,  epi_mnt Office  ttitic,emi                            dat  for recet prs m    wt h cprab                   meet  c
sorveyc  oatoeleory unemployent lna,oranca.                                                 dotnasofgeet.          =m    c  b    .*''1   ic   -            oaj.blso
inc5 dlatriboliono  - Percentae- of prl-te Incom  (both in c-ah ed kind)                     lensthee sight pers_ n ; eld               e      hearses   d  itit
roc-f-'ed by ricthooc 51, ritheat 201, pooret 20?, nd poort 40  of boIe-                    vh icles.                                *nc  ,*t*ry
hLnctriotry kwh/yr p r cap) -        Manual consnmption of indutrtial, oSercial,
1-nd   Pe ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~phicsdprvtseetrctyi ilwt hour per capita, geneally
!=larcibocico of lood ownershi     Percaotale- of lend owd by welthiet 10i                    bse.d  n production dta, without allonc  for lses in srtds but llov
and poorso t 115. cI land onners.                                   ing f~~or import  end ePaorts of el1otri.tty.
tsnt tiba/yr per cae3  - rar tapitr annul cop u ption in kilogrm
a&wuiolnd utrithAio n - POPsI.t1oe di"idmt by Rushe of pr-ti.in#                       _ti d fr dowatic production plu  not Imports of m- print.
phymot!oa  3oceified fros a edical achoul &t university level



Cr              0.           C        to            tO          -
10  r-'H  0.   H0.HC'-'C  100. CrotoCOto  0.  'OH0.'0  0  H,-rot 0. CCCCOC        0.C'0'0       Oct.03 tttoto0.00  "I
000                 102   Or rroO0.  0.0.  000000   0.  0l1'lttr  0.  01014  C  01000140      010130    10
.'0'rortrr  0.     '       '0'0C100'0.100.800'C  0 CC   00   00'0100r-0   C
0.       8    88.8    8   -ooo'10to  r-  otto              0       0  010(0       OttO.       o:0oooo10rr  10
'0  1"'t   C"tlotloO        H  0000.000.0. "0    C  o10C'010o,000C'010 0
0'tto    to  0            r-0    CCC   "tOo  t't'10  C  -'0100  to  0      8  oCo 00(0    0010   -         0.CO'0OooCo,C
0 HOOt-CC                  oCor- cC  IroC    HC'O10Cro'0'0r'ro0,'r 0'00'H  1000    C 000100   902  C
0     C        0.    0.0.0  0  -   ,-10rr0tO0. tO  C  '0  10   010  Cl 000  10  C  0010    HO   100100. '-'0.000   8
-                 4        Ct   10    0' -  0  CC  10110  000   C  '0              H,-'"' 0. 10000.  C    100'             0    0.to.rOO II
o C              0     C  to            2010. 0  0.0  0  Ct"'00                C  1000  C    000-0 .rC    081   88   gorrBo10ort
800      C      0010      CC"-' 8o."  o               '0.           0    00.r"    00.   tO    Ott        OCr.'Ot-"
100   H      to  0     CC        000  10            C  Oto..          "2                  C  toO      1000100
C  tor"   C     0.       '00.    0. Cr10  0.          C                                                       0
10                     810    8        "o        CC      10  00H              8            o              0.0        Cr00'
0       CC       <0                                                                     0010  10
0.                  '0               010        Cr-                          C    100     0      00     00             <0      00000
00        CC      00       to         to            0      010    100        '0 ro       10rtrO.
tOo             o                                                           nt-       to
o'       88      80       8                               00
10'                 '0    0           100      tOtO     0        tO                              0          10         00      0.10
10        C                                 Ct                          10""
to              00        0.0.     10     to                                 0                            '4   0
0                    C                00                        '0                                 0
0.              00                         10
10                   tO                                                                            I-
0                    C                0'                        110
I                      10     1010
I                                   -    100      10t0.0'0                         00.100.0.00.  101001  at    0.
lo    t           tttttt           10000100       0.0.100.    to        100'to0.  0110  CC    CO10000.01001100.            Or
0100.10' t    CC10                         orO-ototo 0.    00.1010      00      8000100.0. Ct Cr010010000.  0.t10010100
'0   *..                        00.0101010      00.1010       010       010100.100.0001100        COOt  0.0.1001010
0.  01CC                         1000 CCC       10100100    CCC       C '0000.0.0'  0t01010 10    CCC10100CCCC
0100.0  0.C   0.010       Jt3O1t00        :c0.01:r.t    t,0r00t      wC       o::                          ro0t$8o.80110
0.10CC                    100.0.100         10toto00.     0100.01               0.            I-t'0   1.4   0101010000  01         0.0
OtOCOOC         00.100t0       toCoto       0.  -    Ut OttO                0.                           L.
01             100.100.010      00.0.0.010  10  1000.01  10           0  C       01 100    10    10100.100.00.0  10 10
10                    I          C  0.100.0.                                                                  F.
---... 0 -t.r 0                         -          ,.   -  --,..10
0.      0.0   0.0.0.      00.001100.       100.1010100.101000.1010   0.00       001010 01010  100100. 00.1000.001010.101010
100100  1010   . . .      10100.10100      101000.100' 0  100.100  0  10010     0010010 Ct"' 10100.0 010  01100101010010.0.0.  0
100 0.010                                         .... p ...                           ....  10.
0.1010     010.010100       C100C0.0  10  0.10100. tO  10010.                          -I 10  toC100.to0C010C  10
0.       to
04to                               r          10  0.100.  10           0.                        100.0.000.10
o0.00                                        0. 1010  00.t"'0.0'10  10101001  0  00.    "'01  100      1010  1000.10  0.00  10
0.100.0100     0100.10  0  0.0.0  0  0  0.0.01010  1001100.0.000100.100.00.0.01  10
0.0.  - .                         010010100  0  010000   10100.0  001001010 t'. 00.100100   01000110101001000
0.0.010' 0 0010                                       0...10..0
Cr0  0.100.                       100000100   0.0010. -  to0.10 0  0010000110000100.    101000.001001010  0
0                                             100100.10    L                                     010.0.00010
...                           - ..  0.-I - S
0.010           t -                        0.0.1010 01 100.  00000.0.0.0.       C  0.0100 10 101001000.00.10010001000   0.
00.0.0.010     001001            18?2-'   0.0  100.    00.100.1010,0.0.10  10 01  0.
- - -          0100       Itt   tI         011001000.  01010100.0.010            0100.1001001000100.0.  10010100.010.10100  0.
0100.01       . . .                        001010000.  100.1000.000             10100100.01000100  10 10                        0.
0.Or-tC0.0.101010C K
0101010  10    0.1010                      10100.0100. 0  01101010  0  0.0.0.   0.0.0010.010.  00100. 10 10  0100.010100.100101  0
10         10                                                -.          0
000.                            t                 0.0.0.0.
0010101010     010010                00.0.0.10   1001    10    0.1000.00  0            I
-                                       10010100.0.     102010.     0.0.0.   0  000100  00.0.10 0.    100001101000.10           I      10
0.010 0010     10  0.0     10100.0.0.100001000010  10    100100001001010                  I   ta
'00.0.10  0. '0 0.100      ttt lIt         1000. 010.0     0  00.      0010      001010100100100.100.00.00.0.100100.0               1010  tO
I 10 0 0.010                                       . . . . .0
* -'.00.01100                              100.101000      1010001     0010      0.100.0.00100.0.10010       0.101001001010.1010
I                                                                                                                             0
01101010 C 0
0                              I      0.0.    0010                             I 10  0.          0.0.0.08    0  0
0                              0.001 01100    1010010               01 0.0.01010  0.0.    Or    101000.0.1000.1010
0                              0.10001010     1001001     0.1010    100.0 00.1001  00010         01010011000.01010     10
0.0.0.         0.0.0       ttlltt          0.1000100.      00100.      101010    100.0010100  1010t 100.    10101010000.000         10
0.100.00.    ' '                          0.0.010100      010010      1000     1000101000.  0011001         0.10100.100100.100
* ...01   100010.                         0.00010.0.      010100      0100      010010.0.1001010.010        0.0100.01100000
1010 r t I      lIt   tI        0.01100.0.10    0101100.    0.010     0.101000.1001  00001  10    0101100100001001
I 1010
0                              0.0.8 80.            8       0.0.    0.0.10                              0.     0       1010
0  t t 8      ttttt           0010100.10     0010110     0.100     0100100.01 or 1.1800.10 C   00100010.00100        '0.10
0001000        0100110     010.10    0.10100.00.10000.10  0.    0101001100101000
01000.                                                                                                                                01
0.000.  0.                                                                                                                            0
8                                                                                                                   '       10
0.   1010    0.                      to    10t-0.0.t0.    0.0.    8  t  0.0.  0.  10    8
000.0010.      00.1001     10010     01001001010  0.0.80 110    100.00.11000100         I 01
01010100.0.                 .''.t0,L'r%         010  U V0.   'aFOOt  010.0.010      110
0.0.10   01                                                                                                         t10
tO  0.0.0.00    0.   t       to    10000.                 0.      00.  100    I 10   0.0.0.10   0.10  10    Ito
0.100.0.0110  1000110100.0      0.0.0.10     t 88     10-001 101010100.00.10 tO    010100.0.100.0.010    110
to '..'. 0                           . ' .                                      t..01
0. 0.0.100010  0.  01011000.0.      0.0.0.10              1010000.0 C  100001CC   0.01000100.0.0.01         tOt
100                0               C
0.1001  0    0.                         C'0  to                              0          0.0    -           0.
0.0.00.0                 0.
0.01000   0.100.1000. I 0.0   8    0.0.     0.000       t         C  0.   0.10  1001    0.0.  0.0.1010   0.0.  10    -'0     "oC
loto  0.0.0.0.100  1100. 0.101010100  0  0.0.0.10  8 t t    0.0.00000.  01000  C         0110100010t'-10C10     100.    0
- r . to.C ' -.H.
1000.0.0.10  300  00.0.000.     0.1000                0.0.0.0010 10  0.0.0.0. 0.0  100.0100.0.00.100.     00.     0
0              0.                                                10
10.                0               8                                                 0
0.0.0 I-.r 0.
1$               1W    *0.10          0.000.       t        00.00.10   100         C     1010100  0. 0. 10    0.        0.
0000        r r t               0. ott'. t   0.                         'o
It"              IC   0010.0.00       10010.0               1001010.1000.  00.  10 0.   100.10100110010.1010   10



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual               Preliminary Estimates                                Projections
1970           1975             1976          1977                    1978           1980            1982
SU`MA1Y BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                      2,745.4         6,081.5          6,811.8      7,862.1                9,328.8        13,879.9       20,634.6
Imports (including NFS)                      3,416.9         8,636.6          8,135.1      7,512.2                9,458.7        12,256.1       16,271.5
Resource Balany                              - 671.5        -2,555.1         -1,323.4         349.8               - 129.9         1,623.8        4,363.1
TIteresL, net -                              - 307.0        -1,266.5         -1,872.0    -2,126.5                -2,350.9        -2,746.6       -2,713.4
Direct Investment Income                     - 267.5        -  657.5         -  636.6     -  739.8                - 856.4        -1,135.8       -1,486.2
Workers' Remittances                           122.7           174.6            193.0         207.5                 224.1           257.7          295.1
Current Transfers, net                          55.3           123.4            146.9         157.1                  171.6          204.9          245.0
Current Account Balance                     -1,068.0        -4,181.2         -3,491.9    -2,151.7                -2,941.3        -1,795.8          703.8
Private Direct Investment                      322.8           748.8            688.0         688.0                  777.4          983.9        1,234.2
Public Med. and Long Term Debt, net            258.6         3,565.8          4,906.9      3,075.1                2,467.0        -  213.4       -1,588.5
(Disbursements)                             (821.3)      (4,418.6)        (6,123.3)   (5,551.1)                (5,996.2)       (4,748.8)     (3,355.2)
(Repayments)                              (-562.7)        (-852.8)       (-1,216.4)  (-2,476.0)              (-3,529.2)      (-4,962.2      (-4,943.8)
Other Capital                                  588.7            31.7         -3,043.0      - 861.4                    21.9        1,233.3        - 133.3
(Public Short Term)                         (139.6)         (842.8)          (839.8)        -                      -            (-200.0)       (-200.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                     (449.1)       (-811.1)        (3,882.8)      (-861.4)                 (21.9)       (1,433.3)         (66.7)
Change in Reserves (- = increase)             -102.1          -165.1            940.0     -  750.0                 -325.1          -207.5       -  373.6
lGANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                        844.1        4,305.7          6,560.5       5,356.8
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
EBRD                                           146.8           310.0            725.0        187.0                    -              -               -
IDA--__-__
Other Multilateral                             112.3           121.8            355.1         280.0                   -              -
Goverrments                                     81.0           316.8            118.6         250.0                   -              -
Suppliers                                       69.7           116.7            201.9         150,0                                    
Banks and Financial Institutions               434.4         3,300.1          4,454.8      3,889.8
Bonds                                           -              140.3            707.5         600.0                   -              -               -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                               EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed          3,226.9        11,095.9         16,002.9    19,078.0                                  Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                                                                                                                   on Dec. 31, 1977
Interest on Public Debt                      - 216.9         - 810.5         -1,069.9    -1,237.0
Rupaynest u- Public Debt                     - 474.7         - 852.8         -1,216.4    -2,476.0                                    S Millions    Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                     - 224.3         - 193.3         -  325.7     -  367.7
Total Debt Service (net)          2          - 915.9        -1,856.6         -2,612.0    -4,080.7                 Public M & L.T.
Burden on Export Earnings (%) 2/                                                                                      Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                       24.0            26.6             32.6         46.0
b.  Total Debt Service                        31.8            29.7             37.3         50.6                IBRD                  1,456.8        7.6
c.  Total Debt Sergice and                                                                                     IDB                      772.7        4.0
Direct Investment Income                44.8            40.2             46.4          59.7               Governments             853.5         4.5
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                      Suppliers               320.8         1.7
a.  Irterest as 2 of prior                                                                                      Bonds                 1,821.6        9.6
year's D.O. and D.                        7.4           10.8               9.6          7.7               Other Financial
b.  Amortization as . of prior                                                                                   Institutions       13,852.6        72.6
year's D.0, and D.                      16.3            11.3             11.0          15.5               Total                19,078.0       100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBRD D.O. & D. as % of                    18.0            10.1              7.7           7.6
Public 0.0. and D.
b.  IBRD Debt Service as 7. of
Public Debt Service                        7.8             7.0              5.8          4.2
IDA Exposure                                     -               -                -             -
- Not applicable or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes worker remittances



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1978)
Loan                                                       Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower               Purpose       Cancellations   bursed
33 loans fully disbursed                      1,486.4
793   1972   NAFINSA                       Tourism              22.0        0.5
909   1973   NAFINSA                       Water Supply         90.0       48.4
968   1974   NAFINSA                       Roads                90.0       57.9
969   1974   NAFINSA                       Irrigation            77.0      15.7
970   1974   NAFINSA                       Irrigation           47.0       43.3
1022   1974   NAFINSA                       Airports             25.0       14.2
1053   1974   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development        50.0       45.6
1110   1975   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development       110.0       60.5
1111   1975   NAFINSA                       Irrigation            50.0      50.0
1112   1975   FERTIMEX and NAFINSA          Industry             50.0       19.5
1186   1975   Banco Nacion,al de
Obras y Servicios
Publicos S. A.             Water Supply          40.0      38.1
1205   1976   NAFINSA                       Industry              50.0      31.8
1217   1976   NAFINSA                       Agricultural and
Livestock Credit 125.0        38.0
1232   1976   Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA      Railways             100.0      87.4
1420 1/1977   NAFINSA                       Tourism               42.0      42.0
1462   1977   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development       120.0      118.2
1524 1/1978   NAFINSA                       Tourism               50.0      50.0
TOTAL                                           2,624.4      761.1
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              460.7
Total now ouitstanding                          2,163.7
Amount sold                        92.3
of which has been repaid           65.4            26.9
Total now held by Bank 2/                       2,136.8
Total Undisbursed                                           761.1
1/     Not yet effective.
2/     Prior to exchange adljustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                             US$ Million
Year           Obligor                 Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/         Industrial Equipment       0.8      --     0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                 A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5             0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/       Twist Drills               0.3      --     0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.         Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/         Steel                      0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                 Sodium Sulphate            0.7      --     0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                    Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,   Iron Ore Mining              1.5      --     1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.  Textiles                    12.0      --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                    Pulp and Paper              2/       2/     2/
1973       Cemento Veracruz           Cement                    10.5      --    10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel       Tourism                    1.0      0.3    1.3
1975       Mexinox, S.A.              Steel                     12.0      3.2   15.2
Total Gross Commitments                             42.5    27.0   69.5
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                         16.3    22.1   38.4
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC 3/                26.2      4.9   31.1
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanelo Tourism Project:  $22 Million Loan of January 22.
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
All infrastructure works at Ixtapa and in the town of Zihuatanejo
are complete. The international airport at Zihuatanejo is now
being served by 35 flights a week from Mexico City. A new
bilateral air agreement between Mexico and the US was signed
in January 1978 that will allow Mexican and US air carriers to
serve Zihuatanejo directly from 23 US cities. Three hotels
with 555 rooms will open by May 1978, and an additional
1,500 rooms are under construction. The only category of the
loan not yet fully disbursed relates to the training compo-
nent (about US$500,000). To use these funds, the Mexican
authorities are preparing a proposal for additional training
facilities at La Paz (Baja California).
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by the end of 1978. The Government
has proposed that savings in carrying out some components of
the projects be applied to finance new works which would serve
the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the Mexico
City metropolitan area. The Government is carrying out a
revision of the bulk water rate, on confirmation of which
a recommenidation on changes in the project description will
be submitted to Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29. 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
About 25 percent of the works have been carried out and about
US$25 million have been disbursed. Substantial delays have
been encountered in the initiation of project works because of
the shortage of budgetary allocations. Substantial cost
increases caused by price escalation were also encountered.
Taking this into account, a change in the scope of the project
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport: to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975 km) to ten roads
and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which, because of cost
increases, have the same total cost as the original project.
The roads remaining in the project continue to be justified as
benefits have kept pace with costs. Overall progress of project
works is estimated at about 31 percent and completion is now
expected for late 1980 or about two and a half years behind
schedule.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $77 Million Loan of
March 1. 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 16,000 ha were
irrigated in the previous season; on full development the
project will provide irrigation to 137,000 ha. The
technical assistance program and the land settlement
program are proceeding satisfactorily. However, inflation
has been greater than estimated at the time of appraisal,
and project costs have risen to about US$371 million
equivalent from the original estimate of US$212 million.
A recent analysis of the project indicates that, although
project costs have risen, the rate of return remains satis-
factory due to rapid increases in commodity prices over
the same period. The Government's request for a supple-
mentary loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1. 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially behind
the original schedule; the pace is, however, accelerating as
works for the major storage dam have now begun. About 15
percent of project works are completed and water is being
-supplied to 25,000 ha. of the 100,000 ha. to be served by the
project. Total project costs have risen from US$146 million to
US$341 million because of higher inflation than projected at
the time of appraisal and changes in the volume of physical
works. The Government's request for a supplementary loan is
under consideration.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been
postponed by the Government because of interim improvements
of the existing airport carried out by the local municipality
with its own resources. At Campeche, the Government has



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
decided to construct a new airport with its own funds
instead of improving the existing airport. Loan proceeds
allocated to Guaymas and Campeche were reallocated in August
1977 to complete construction of the six airports retained
in the project. Works in all the six airports are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15. 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27.
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. A reprogramming of the project
was begun in 1977 to adjust for these delays. The project
is presently being given priority attention. Budget levels
have been inadequate but are under review and are likely
to be raised. While, as a whole, the project remains
behind the original implementation schedule, some elements,
most notably extension services, are ahead of schedule. The
project would likely be completed two years after the original
closing date.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIPER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8 1975: Effectiveness Date: October 29. 1975.
Closing Date: December 31. 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule and management
is taking actions to further strengthen project implementation.
Special inter-agency agreements regarding the development
credit, agricultural extension, and farmer organization compo-
nents are being implemented. The new PIDER management is
giving priority to ensuring the proper operation and mainte-
nance of earlier PIDER investments.  Emphasis is also being
given to strengthening the efforts regarding cost recovery,
investment analysis and programming, monitoring, and rural
industries.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation ProJect - BaJo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date:  July 30. 1975;
Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
The Government and the Bank have agreed that, in view of
the size and complexity of the project, its high cost and
the Government's current policy of restraining fiscal expendi-
tures, it would be advisable to carry out the project in
several phases over a longer period of time than the seven
years originally visualized. As explained in Memorandum
R77-305 of December 13, 1977, the loan amount has now been



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
reduced from $150 million to $50 million which would be applied
to the first phase of the project. The first phase works would
be implemented over four years. Contracts for priority works
are being placed and studies for the remaining works under the
reduced project are in progress. A technical assistance
component of the project is under implementation.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22. 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The devaluation of the peso in September 1976 affected the
project cost and its implementation schedule. Preliminary
estimates indicate a capital cost increase of 36 percent
in pesos and a delay of 7 to 8 months in implementation.
The Bajio Urea Plant will be completed in June 1978, the
Pajaritos Urea Plant in June 1979 and the Parathion Plant
in May 1978.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26. 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with three cities where
construction has begun. It is expected that agreements will be
signed by the end of the year with local authorities for four
additional subprojects which would fully commit the loan funds.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
After some delays in committing resources to new projects in
late 1976 and early 1977, demand for financing for industrial
projects has strengthened and FONEI has numerous applications
on hand. As of March 15, 1978, 80 percent of the loan had
been committed.
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11. 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30. 1976.
Closing Date: January 1. 1980.
Commitments under this project are running ahead of schedule.
Funds for medium-income producers and agro-industries are
fully committed. The National Rural Credit Bank has been
declared eligible for rediscount under this project thereby
increasing the rate of commitment of funds to low-income
producers.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway ProJect:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16. 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Execution of the project has been generally satisfactory.
Orders have been placed for rails, car components, track
and workshop machinery. Following the devaluation in 1976,
and the budgetary cuts in the stabilization period, and the
slackening in the traffic growth, the railway has proposed
substantial rephasing of its investment plan and procurement
schedule, details of which are being worked out. The execution
period of the project will require to be extend by about two
years. Operational and technical improvements of the railway
continue, though they have not yet been reflected in the
financial performance of the railway on account of inadequate
tariff increases.
Ln. No. 1420   Bala California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date
Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
The establishment of a land trust fund in the project area
of San Joske del Cabo, a condition of loan effectiveness, is
expected shortly. Implementation of the project has already
started and is on schedule. A project unit in Mexico City
and adequately staffed field offices have been established.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5. 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28. 1977;
Closing Date: July 31. 1981.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date:                        ; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981.
The loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
MEXICO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Agency that prepared the project:          FIRA
(b)  Time taken by FIRA to prepare project:   About six months
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:            June 1977
(d)  First mission to review project:           July 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:            October 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                April 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             August 1978
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Intensive supervision is planned.
III. Special Conditions
(a)  Interest rates, terms, and conditions for subloans would
depend on loan purpose and size and the farmer's income
level as shown in the table in paragraph 53. These would
be reviewed periodically and would not be different from
those under subsequent Bank-financed credit projects for
beneficiaries of similar socio-economic conditions.
(b) Prior, approval of the Bank would be required before any subloan
over US$800,000 equivalent were rediscounted under the project
(para. 53).
(c) The maximum subloan balance outstanding to any one beneficiary
would be Mex$ 5 million (para. 53).
(d) No more than 53 percent of livestock development investment
would be allocated to the purchase of breeding livestock, and the
purchase of replacement breeding livestock would not be eligible
for finance under the proposed loan (para. 55).
(e) Procurement would be through normal commercial channels. For
on-farm investments, FIRA would require sub-borrowers to obtain
quotes from several sources of supply whenever practicable.
For agroindustrial investments, quotations would be solicited
from at least three suppliers whenever the cost of a single
item or assembly delivered by a manufacturer exceeds US$250,000
equivalent (para. 56).



ElXd   |   g  N  |  |  i  |  311 | @ | | if if goEd8l2-i-lS<llSinl zu ;;,nnlr = -fI-  RD 11789R
1      0  lltz, 2 10, li:   X-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4c
| m1 ' 10m, X ' S g ! S D 'so '\J<t |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&            .
4  ,  S    \ z   \  C :b=rcbX    .   >  * Nseva C .s=7 Grond, s  |   F  a "   \  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URA
30                                                                                          0"              AR AQ> (   4w;eA F   aet'UA=
0 >< an 9 3 CdObrsdon Rli~~~N,  C- G-HJ. ; o _R , XIf a  
1\  0 00   ^t''t   '2r-''8?  '' OLh  z  ,J @,                               GufA
| 0  Cc a      n  l  5\  '>'  4'                 54FItAt.ERMOSS0 . 
0      \>\            ' (\      t  7AATLCAS       -   zBelDADVICTRA4t      //exBfHc  7 A UA
0 Q; 0 i \ \Mots-oD ii 7A~~~~~~~~~~~~CdTC-AS   1 ,'ludte  )   ;D  6.,\0  
1;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C b'Pd DITRBUO  OF FIAOFCS.    \*S.     I,,i                         /;CA1@ 
-:~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                             C BY  AEI  IJ L,,  ANu-'-AAr./ 
:    0  ,; lO0 2,0s    1       8' ' ' , '  f  tYd '>Ly,; Xu         }'  * @   4Q~~~' I FC  G u 
JLO                        E    ERS   _  _W=: j; ; 0 2 < |~W Y NTER EY   n



