CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1569 ME
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Dated September 27, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1569 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Banxico" means Banco de M6xico, S.A., trustee of Fondo;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Banxico of even date herewith, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time; and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement and all schedules thereto;
(c) "Law" means the law of the Guarantor published in the
Diario Oficial of December 31, 1954 creating the Fondo de Garantfa
y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderfa y Avicultura, and
includes its Reglamento of May 6, 1955;
(d) "Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fideicomiso
dated June 24, 1955 between the Government of United Mexican
States and Banxico whereby the Fondo de Garantfa y Fomento para
la Agricultura, Ganaderfa y Avicultura was entrusted to Banxico
as trustee pursuant to the Law;
(e) "Fondo" means the technical and administrative organiza-
tion, resources, staff and facilities used or to be used by


﻿- 2 -
Banxico to operate the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento ara la
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura and the Special Trust
Fund;
(f) "Special Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de
Fideicomiso dated Augsut 26, 1965 between the Government of United
Mexican States and Banxico; and "Special Trust Fund" means the
Fondo Especial de Financiamientos Agro2ecuarios established by the
Special Trust Agreement;
(g)  "prior loan agreements" means the loan agreements
dated October 1, 1965, June 12, 1969, June 9, 1971, June 18, 1973,
and March 11, 1976, respectively, between the Bank and the Bor-
rower; "prior guarantee agreements" means the guarantee agreements
of even date therewith between the Guarantor and the Bank; "prior
project agreements" means the project agreements of even date
therewith between the Bank and Banxico; and "prior loans" means
the loans provided for in the prior loan agreements;
(h) "prior projects" means the projects described in Sched-
ule 1 to the prior project agreements;
(i) "BNCR" means Banco Nacional de Crfdito Rural, an
agricultural bank established under the Decree of the Guarantor
dated July 5, 1975;
(j) "FINASA" means Financiera Nacional Azucarera established
by the Guarantor on August 22, 1953;
(k) "Participating Banks" means BNCR, the Banks of BNCR's
system, FINASA, any other public credit institution approved by
the Bank and any private credit institution approved by Banxico to
participate in the carrying out of the Project in accordance with
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(1) "beneficiary" means a farmer or a group of farmers
having juridical capacity under the laws of the Guarantor to enter
into contractual arrangements and to which a Participating Bank
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan;
(m) "low-income beneficiary" means an individual beneficiary
whose main source of income is derived from farming and whose net
annual family income does not excebd 1,000 times the daily minimum
rural wage for the region where he is located, or a group of such
beneficiaries;


﻿-3-
(n) "sub-loan" means a long- or medium-term loan made
or proposed to be made by a Participating Bank to a beneficiary
for a project in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan;
(o) "project" means (i) an on-farm investment for crop or
livestock production, and (ii) planning and establishment or
expansion or improvement of primary processing or service type
agro-industries, to be carried out by a beneficiary and to be
financed in part by means of a sub-loan; and
(p) "peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
million dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cosL of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Loan to be applied in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Project Agreement to expenditures on the Proj-
ect.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause all goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank, providing for such matters as are
set forth in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, and except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or
fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will i2so
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at
no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
aions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and


﻿-5-
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after ihe date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or c,ause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance tvith consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower with respect to the Loan.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
covenant or agreement on the part of Banxico under the Project
Ageeement; and
(b) a change shall have been made in the Law or in the
Trust Agreement or in the Special Trust Agreement, which shall
adversely and materially affect the carrying out or operation of
the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for ai period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Guarantor, the Borrower, and Banxico; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:


﻿-6-
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Banxico
and is legally binding upon Banxico in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement and 2.02 of the Project Agreement are legally
binding on the parties thereto; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or by
Banxico or pursuant to the Law, the Trust Agreement or the Special
Trust Agreement or otherwise to be performed or given in order to
authorize! the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower and Banxico to perform all of the respective covenants,
agreements and obligations of the Borrower and Banxico in the Loan
Agreement and the Project Agreement contained, together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
duly and validly performed or given and no other such acts,
consents and approvals are required to be performed or given for
said purpose.
Section 6.02. The date December 27, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section :11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the 3ank:
'International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
Mexico 1, D.F. Mexico
Cable address:                 Telex:
NAFIN                          NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City                    Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolas Ardito-Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s/ J. Espinosa de los Reyes
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for on-
farm investments,
breeding stock,
farm machinery and
equipment, construc-
tion, water supply
and irrigation,
land preparation
and development,
and pasture and
orchard establish-
ment:
(a) Part 1 (a) (i)
of the Project
(i) crop pro-          32,100,000    )   50% of Fondo
duction                         )    payments made
)    to Participat-
)    ing Banks to
)    finance sub-
(ii) livestock          35,600,000    )   loans for a
production                      )    project
(b) Part 1 (a) (ii)
of the Project
(i) crop pro-          51,300,000    )   44% of Fondo
duction                         )    payments made
)    to Participat-
)    ing Banks to
)    finance sub-
(ii) livestock          56,300,000    )   loans for a
production                      )    project


﻿-9-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(2) Sub-loans for agro-          17,500,000         44%
industries under
Part 1 (b) of the
Project: machinery,
equipment, civil
works and utilities
(3) Training, including           6,625,000         50%
travel abroad, civil
works, equipment and
livestock under Part
2 (a) of the Project
(4) Monitoring and tech-            575,000         100% of for-
nical services under                           eign expendi-
Part 2 (b) and (c) of                          tures
the Project
TOTAL       200,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Guaran-
tor or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To
the extent that the amount represented by the percentage set forth
in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect
of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such
taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds
of the Loan will be withdrawn on account of such taxeis;


﻿- 10 -
(c) payments made by Fondo to Participating Banks to finance
any sub-loan which shall exceed the equivalent of eight hundred
thousand dollars ($800,000), unless such sub-loan shall have been
approved by the Bank; and
(d) payments made by Fondo to finance any sub-loan made by a
public credit institution, unless such institution has been
approved by the Bank as eligible for rediscount facilities under
the Project as required by Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
4.   If the Bank, after consulting with the Borrower, shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth in Sched-
ule 2 to the Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1982
through   November 1, 1994                   7,690,000
On May 1, 1995                                    7,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                            2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                      6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                            7.50%


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(a) Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 shall read as follows:
"The term 'Project' means the project or projects
or program or programs for which the Loan is granted, as
described in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and as
the description thereof shall be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Guarantor, the Bank, the
Borrower and Banxico."
(b) Section 6.06 shall read as follows:
"Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or
Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all
the provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect except as in this Article specifi-
cally provided."
(c) Section 10.01 shall read as follows:
"Enforceability. The rights and obligations of the
Bank, the Borrower, the Guarantor, and Banxico under the
Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, and the Project
Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance
with their terms notwithstanding the laws of any State,
or political subdivision thereof, to the contrary.
Neither the Bank nor the Borrower nor the Guarantor nor
Banxico shall be entitled in any proceeding under this
Article to assert any claim that any provision of these
General Conditions or of the Loan Agreement or the
Guarantee Agreement or the Project Agreement is invalid
or unenforceable because of any provision of the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank."
(d) Section 10.02 shall read as follows:
"Obligations of the Guarantor. The obligations of
the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement shall not be


﻿- 14 -
discharged except by performance and then only to the
extent of such performance. Such obligations shall not
be subject to any prior notice to, demand upon or action
against the Borrower or Banxico or to any prior notice
to or demand upon the Guarantor with regard to any
default by the Borrower or Banxico, and shall not be
impaired by any of the following: any extension of time,
forbearance or concessi)n given to the Borrower or
Banxico; any assertion of, or failure to assert, or
delay in asserting, any right, power or remedy against
the Borrower or Banxico or in respect of any security
for the Loan; any modification or amplification of the
provisions of the Loan Agreement or the Project Agree-
ment contemplated by the terms thereof; any failure of
the Borrower or Banxico to comply with any requirement
of any law of the Guarantor."
(e) Section 10.03 shall read as follows:
"Failure to Exercise Rights. No delay in exercising,
or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy
accruing to any party under the Loan Agreement or
Guarantee Agreement or Project Agreement upon any
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or
be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence
in such default; nor shall any action of such party in
respect of such default, or any acquiescence by it in
any default, affect or impair any right, power or remedy
of such party in respect of any other or subsequent
default."


