CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1569 ME
Project Agreement
(Sixth Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
Dated September 27, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1569 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A. (hereinafter called Banxico).
WHEREAS, by a trust agreement between the Guarantor and
Banxico dated August 26, 1965, Banxico has been entrusted by the
Guarantor with a special fund for the purpose of financing live-
stock and agricultural development in Mexico; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, Banxico and the Borrower have
requested the Bank to assist in financing such development; and
WHEREAS the Bank has in the past made the prior loans for
that purpose and is now willing to make to the Borrower a sixth
loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred million
dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Banxico agree to
undertake certain obligations to the Bank as hereinafter in this
Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS Banxico, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of Banxico
Section 2.01. (a) Banxico shall carry out or cause Lhe
Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound agricultural, industrial, administrative and


﻿- 2 -
financial policies and practices under the management and supervi-
sion of Fondo, and shall, at all times, make available promptly
as needed, all sums and other resources which shall be required
by Fondo to meet its operating expenses.
(b) Banxico shall, for the purpose of carrying out the
Project, make or cause to be made available, out of Fondo's
resources or otherwise, credit on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, as required in order to achieve fully and
promptly the benefits of the Project.
(c) Banxico shall exercise its rights in relation to each
sub-loan in such manner as to protect the interest of the Bank,
Banxico and Fondo.
Section 2.02. (a) Banxico shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Borrower provid-
ing, inter alia, (i) for the transfer from the Borrower to Banxico
of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of carrying out the
Project; (ii) for the payment by Banxico to the Borrower, from
time to time, of the sums of money that the Borrower shall require
to pay to the Bank on account of interest and other charges on the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to carry out Part 1 of the Project;
and (iii) for the utilization by Banxico, in Fondo's medium- and
long-term program for agricultural development, of the proceeds of
repayment of sub-loans under the Project, to the extent that
Banxico shall not require such proceeds to make payments to the
Borrower in accordance with sub-paragraph (ii) hereof.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banxico shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
Section 2.03. (a) Banxico shall cause Fondo to carry out
its operations in accordance with sound agricultural, industrial,
administrative and financial policies and practices under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.
(b) The organization of Fondo and the operational policies
of Banxico and Fondo in respect of the Project shall be satis-
factory to the Bank and such policies shall include such organiza-
tion, procurement and credit policies as are set forth in Schedule
2 to this Project Agreement, and such other policies as may be
agreed to by the Bank and Banxico, and Banxico shall ensure that
such organization, procurement and credit policies are, to the
extent necessary, duly and promptly implemented and carried out to
the satisfaction of the Bank.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. (a) Banxico shall cause the proceeds of the
Loan to be applied in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Loan Agreement to expenditures on the Project.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banxico shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
Section 2.05. Banxico shall make available to any public
credit institution which has not participated in the prior
projects the rediscount facilities under the Project only after
the Bank shall determine that such institution is eligible to such
facilities.
Section 2.06. Banxico shall apply to the Bank for approval of
any Sub-loan to be made under the Project in excess of the equiv-
alent of eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000). When applying
to the Bank for such approval, Banxico shall furnish to the Bank
a description of the project to be financed out of the proceeds of
the proposed Sub-loan and such technical, economic and financial
data regarding such project as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.07. Banxico shall cause the Participating Banks to:
(a) establish and maintain accounts to record their receipts
and payments for or in connection with the Project, including: (i)
amounts received from and payments made to Fondo, and (ii) amounts
disbursed to and received from beneficiaries; and
(b) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
such accounts.
Section 2.08. (a) Banxico shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use
thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of Fondo and, in respect of the Project,
of Banxico; shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the
sites, farms, ranches, agro-industries and other works and facili-
ties included in the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and any relevant records and documents; and
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the


﻿expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of Fondo and, in
respect of the Project, the operations of Banxico.
(b) Without prejudice to its obligations under paragraph (a)
of this Section, Banxico shall: (i) keep or cause to be kept such
detailed records on selected farms and agro-industries included
in the Project as shall be necessary to enable Banxico to obtain
accurate measurement of Project impact and results, and (ii) from
time to time evaluate such impact and results.
Section 2.09. (a) The Bank and Banxico shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end, the Bank and Banxico shall from time to time, at the
request of either of them, exchange views through their represent-
atives with regard to the performance by Banxico of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of Fondo, the operations of Banxico, in
respect of the Project and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
(b) Banxico shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan or the performance by
Banxico of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Banxico, in its capacity as Trustee of Fondo,
shall: (i) have an annual audit satisfactory to the Bank made of
the accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) of Fondo for each
calendar year, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than three months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of such financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of Fondo and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Banxico shall cause Fondo and any other appropriate entities to
provide the technical services included in Part 2 of the Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.12. Promptly after completion of the Project, but
in any event not later than one year after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Banxico
and the Bank, Banxico shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and benefits and on the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Banxico hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-6-
For Banxico:
Banco de Mexico, S.A.
5 de Mayo No. 2
Mfxico 1, D.F., M6xico
Cable address:
Banxico
Mexico D.F.
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Banxico may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and Banxico shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolas Ardito-Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin Amezica and the Caribbean
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
By /s/ G. Romero Kolbeck
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is the continuation of the livestock and agricul-
ture development program financed under the prior loan agreements
by means of a credit program, managed and supervised by Fondo
within the framework of the Trust Agreement and the Special Trust
Agreement, which will make use of the resources of the Special
Trust Fund.
The Project includes:
Part 1:   Making of sub-loans, and short-term loans for working
capital, together with ancillary services and other
related items for:
(a) livestock development and annual and perennial
crop development to
(i) low-income beneficiaries; and
(ii) other beneficiaries.
(b) planning and establishment or expansion or improve-
ment of primary processing or service type agro-
industries to beneficiaries.
Part 2:   (a) (i) Training for purposes of the Project of
technicians of Fondo and Participating Banks
and beneficiaries.
(ii) Establishment or expansion of demonstration
centers, and acquisition and utilization of
equipment and livestock for said centers.
(b) Monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the
Project.
(c) Provision of technical services to low-income
beneficiaries, and acquisition and utilization of
vehicles and training aides therefor.


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2
Organization, Credit and
Procurement Policies
A.   General
1.   Banxico will rediscount or otherwise finance sub-loans made
by the Participating Banks. Fondo's determination of eligibility
for such financing will be based primarily upon the appraisal as
to technical feasibility and satisfactory return on investments
and the approval of each sub-loan by qualified technicians of,
or acceptable to, Fondo, such approval to be given before the
respective sub-loan is made by the Participating Banks. Project
appraisals will be reviewed from time to time by Fondo in order
to determine their accuracy and the technical and financial
viability of projects. At the time of the approval of each sub-
loan, a plan for supervising the carrying out of the project will
be prepared and a record of supervision activities will be kept
for each sub-loan. Irrigation projects will be approved, in
addition and where necessary, by a field representative of the
Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidr&ulicos. Agro-
industrial projects will be appraised, recommended and supervised
by Fondo staff, or by consultants acceptable to Fondo under
detailed terms of reference. Project evaluation will include the
projection of costs and returns to the beneficiary for the esti-
mated life of the project. Fondo will from time to time review
the procedures for the processing of sub-loan applications with a
view to simplifying such procedures.
B.   Organization
2.   Organizational and staffing adjustments as set forth in
Banxico's Memorandum dated April 23, 1971 will be maintained.
C.   Procurement Policies
3.   The following measures will be taken:
(a) Fondo will require beneficiaries to obtain price quota-
tions for goods or works to be financed under a sub-loan from
several local suppliers and contractors, whenever practicable;


﻿- 9 -
(b) Fondo will require beneficiaries to obtain price
quotations for imported breeding stock to be financed under
a sub-loan from several sources of supply, whenever practi-
cable;
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, any contract
for equipment and associated services for agro-industries to be
financed under a sub-loan and estimated to cost the equivalent
of $250,000 or more shall be awarded only after the beneficiary
shall have solicited price quotations from not less than three
suppliers of such equipment. To this effect, processing equipment
for each agro-industrial project will be grouped in accordance
with appropriate technical and procurement practices;
(d) Fondo will make available to beneficiaries of sub-
loans for agro-industrial projects a list of suppliers of agro-
industrial machinery from the Bank's member countries and
Switzerland; and
(e) Fondo will advertise once in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in Mexico, and inform once local repre-
sentatives of the Bank's member countries which manufacture
agro-industrial equipment and Switzerland about the type of
agro-industries to be financed under the Project. If any such
country does not have local representation, such information
will be sent to the government agency responsible for its foreign
trade.
D.   Credit Policies
4.   Participating Banks will be required to provide from their
own resources not less than 10% of the total amount of sub-loans
made. The balance will be rediscounted or otherwise financed by
Banxico. For this purpose, Banxico will make available to the
respective Participating Banks, promptly as needed, amounts
sufficient to cover such balances. The financing granted by
Banxico will have the same repayments of principal as the sub-
loans financed, and if such financing is granted through
rediscounting, such rediscounting will be evidenced by negotiable
instruments representing the sub-loan to be rediscounted signed by
the beneficiaries.
5.   In rediscounting or otherwise financing sub-loans, the
following rules will be applied:


﻿- 10 -
Minimum
Sub-borrover
contribution   Maximum    Yearly
(percentage Percentage Rediscount   Minimum
of cost of    of Sub-   Rates to    Yearly
Sub-loan     Project    loan re-  Participat- Interest
Sub-borrowers            amount     financed) discounted    ing Banks    Rates
1. Low-income
sub-borrowers
(a) on-farm invest-
ment projects
(i) low-income   not more than   3         90          7.50      11.00
sub-bor-     3509000
rowers who   pesos
receive
institu-
tional
credit for
the first
time
(ii) other low-   not more than   5         90         10.50      13.50
income sub-  1,000,000
borrowers    pesos
(b) agro-            not more than   5         90         11.00      14.00
industrial       2,500,000
projects         pesos
2. Other sub-       (i) not more than   15        90         13.00      16.00
borrowers            2,500,000
on-farm              pesos
investment
projects
and agro-       (ii) more than       15        80         13.25      16.00
industrial           2,500,000
projects             pesos and not
more than
5,000,000 pesos
(iii) more than       15        70        14.50       17.00
5,000,000
pesos


﻿- 11 -
The terms and conditions of a sub-loan for on-farm investment
made to a sub-borrower which is a group of farmers shall be those
which would correspond to the amount of such sub-loan divided by
the number of members of such group.
No sub-loan will be made to a sub-borrower for on-farm
investment if the amount of the proposed sub-loan together with
the aggregate principal amount outstanding of sub-loans made
for on-farm investment to such sub-borrower under the Project or
prior projects exceeds 5,000,000 pesos. In case the sub-borrower
is a group of farmers, such amount will be multiplied by the
number of members of such group.
No sub-loans for purchase of breeding livestock will be
made to sub-borrowers to finance the replacement of breeding
livestock financed under the Project or prior projects. In the
case of sub-loans for livestock development under Part 1 (a) (ii)
of the Project, the amounts allocated for financing purchase of
breeding livestock will not, in the aggregate, exceed 53% of the
total investment cost of livestock development financed under
the Project.
Lending terms and grace periods will be as set forth in
technical and financial plans. Repayments of principal of sub-
loans will range from 3 to 15 years and will include grace periods
of 1 to 3 years; provided that, in exceptional cases and with the
prior agreement of the Bank, repayment of principal may extend for
up to 20 years.
Interest and rediscount rates charged under all other pro-
grams managed by Fondo will be adjusted from time to time, as
necessary, so that differences between applicable terms and
conditions do not result in discouraging participation in Part C
of the Project. In addition, the terms and conditions in this
Schedule contained shall not be different from those that Banxico
and the Bank shall agree from time to time for other agricultural
programs in Mexico to benefit farmers with socio-economic condi-
tions similar to those of the sub-borrowers, to be financed out of
the proceeds of any other loan made by the Bank, and to be relent
through Banxico.


