CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1569 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Sixth Agricultural Credit Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 27, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1569 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1978, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by a trust agreement between the Guarantor and
Banxico dated August 26, 1965, Banxico has been entrusted by the
Guarantor with a special fund for the purpose of financing live-
stock and agricultural development in Mexico;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, Banxico and the Borrower have
requested the Bank to assist in financing such development;
WHEREAS the Bank has in the past made the prior loans for
that purpose and is now willing to make to the Borrower a sixth
loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred million
dollars ($200,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided and that Banxico undertake certain
obligations to the Bank as in the Project Agreement set forth;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes:
(a) to cause Banxico to carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricul-
tural, industrial, administrative and financial policies and
practices;
(b) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that
the funds available to Banxico for purposes of the Project will
be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for
carrying out the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide Banxico or cause Banxico to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures;
(c) upon the request of Banxico, from time to time pay into
the Fondo Especial de Asistencia Tecnica y Garantia para Cr6ditos
Agropecuarios, managed by Banxico, such amounts as shall be
required by Banxico to give technical assistance to low-income
beneficiaries; and
(d) to pay to the Borrower:
(i) such amounts as the Borrower shall require to
repay to the Bank the principal of the Loan;
and
(ii) out of the resources of the Fondo Especial de
Asistencia Tfcnica y Garantia para Cr&ditos


﻿-3-
Agropecuarios, such amounts as the Borrower shall
require to pay to the Bank on account of interest
and other charges on the proceeds of the portion
of the Loan allocated to carry out Part 2 of
the Project.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such
lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and
at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guar-
antor, in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall
make express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if
for any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivi-
sions, or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency
or instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political
subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or


﻿-4-
organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor
or the operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest
of or for account of the Guarantor or any political subdivision of
the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such polit-1cal subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower or Banxico of its respective obliga-
tions contained in the Loan Agreement or the Project Agreement
and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary
or appropriate to enable the Borrower and Banxico to perform such
obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all action which
shall be necessary or advisable,
(a) upon the recommendation of Fondo to that effect, to
cause such import permits as shall be needed for the importation
of agricultural and agro-industrial machinery and equipment
purchased for the Project outside of Mexico, to be issued as
promptly as possible, in compliance with the legislation and
administrative procedures of the Guarantor, and as required for
carrying out the Project; and
(b) to enable Banxico to apply or cause to be applied
the policies set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, in accordance with its
laws, appoint independent and qualified auditors for the purposes
of Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Nacional Financiera, S.A. is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-5-
For the Guarantor:
United Mexican States
c/o. Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
M6xico 1, D.F. Mfxico
Cable address:                    Telex:
NAFIN
Mexico City                            NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By: NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s/ J. Espinosa de los Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolas Ardito-Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


