RESTRICTED
FILE   COPY               Report No. P-694
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED BANK LENDING
TO
SOCIETE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
ET L'EXPLOITATION DU PALMIER A HUILE
AND
SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE
TO BE GUARANTEED
BY
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
May 2, 1969



INTERNATICNAL BANK EOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO1>22ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
PROPOSED &BNK LENDING
TO
SOCIETE POUR LE DEVELOPPENENT ET L'EXPLOITATION DU
PALMIER A HUILE AND SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on three sepa-
rate loanE in a global amount in various currencies equivalent to US$17.1
million to Societ6 pour le Developpement et 1'Exploitation du Palmier a
Huile (SODEPAIM) and Societe PALMINDUSTRIE to be guaranteed 'by the Republic
of the Ivory Coast.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In mid-1966, the Government of the Ivory Coast requested as-
sistance from the Bank in financirg part of the costs of its ongoing oil
palm development program and of a development program for coconuts. Project
appraisal took place in early 1967; negotiations were to begin towards the
end of that year, but had to be postponed due to changes in the composition
of the project promotors. New proposals regarding the organization and
legal arrangements for the project companies were reviewed during 1968 and
the requirements of the prospective lenders coordinated.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in TW,ashington in January 1969.
The Government was represented by Mr. Hovine, Director-General of the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, as head of the delegation, as well as
by representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture and Planning.
The Government agency, SODEPAILI, was represented by Mr. Fraisse, Director-
General, and senior staff. Future shareholders in the companies, PALM-
INDUSTRIE and PALI4IVOIRE, were represented by Mr. Lancksweert, Director-
General of SOGESCOL (SOCFIN group), Mr. Blohorn (Blohorn group) as well as
representatives of four commercial banks in the Ivory Coast and Mr. Konan,
head of SONAFI, a Government-owned investment bank. The Fonds Europeen de
Developpement (FED), European Investment Bank (EIB) and Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) delegated observers.
4.        This would be the second lending operation in the Republic of
Ivory Coast since its independence. In June 1968, the Bank signed a loan
of $5.8 million equivalent for a highway project (542-IVC) which became
effective in December. Disbursements are expected to start shortly. In
1954, the Bank made a loan (100-FR) of $7.5 million equivalent to the
Office Central des Chemins de Fer de la France dtOutre-Mer for the acqui-
sition of diesel locomotives for the Dakar-Niger and Abidjan-Niger rail-
ways. The loan has since been fully repaid.
5.        It is expected that other lending proposals for an education
project and a cocoa rehabilitation and development project will be sub-



- 2 -
mitted to the Executive Directors in fiscal year 1970. Another possible
operation would be a loan to the "Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement
Industriel" (BIDI) a development finance company in the capital of which
IFC took in 1965 a participation equivalent to $204,000.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED BANK LOANS
6.        Bank lending is proposed for a global amount of US$17.1 million,
representing approximately the foreign exchange cost of the project. For
reasons related to project execution by three legally independent companies
and the need for harmonization with co-lending institutions, it is proposed
to make three separate loans (see also para. 18):
7.
Borrowers:  Soci6te pour le     Societe pour le      Societe PALMINDUSTRIE.
Developpement et    Developpement et
l1Exploitation du  l1Exploitation du
Palmier a Huile     Palmier a Huile
(SODEPALM).         (SODEPALM).
Member-
Guarantor:               Republic of Ivory Coast
Company-                        Societes PALM-       Societ6s SODEPAIM and
Guarantors:       -             INDUSTRIE and        PALMIVOIRE.
PALI'IIVOIRE.
Purpose:    To help finance     To help finance      To help finance the
the establishment   the establishment    construction of a
of 12,000 ha of     of 4,000 ha of       palm oil mill at Ehania.
outgrower oilpalms, estate oil palms
3,500 ha of estate  at Ehania.
coconuts and 3,000
ha of outgrower
coconuts.
Amount:     Various currencies  Various currencies   Various currencies
equivalent to       equivalent to        equivalent to
US$9.0 million.     US$3.3 million       US$4.8 million.
Amortization: In 21 years including a 6-year period of grace, through
semi-annual installments beginning on May 1, 1975 and
ending on Pay 1, 1990.
Interest rate:                   6-1/2 percent.
Commitment charge:               3/4 of 1 percent.



PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
.eport entitled "Appraisal of an Oil Palm and Coconut Project - Ivory
Coast" (TO-603c, dated April 25, 1969).
A.        General Program
9.        The economy of the Ivory Coast is largely dependent upon the
export of agricultural production. In the absence of any identified major
sources of minerals, this situation is not likely to change.  T>I commodi-
ties, coffee and cocoa, represent the bulk of exports, accounting together
for about 50 percent thereof in terms of value. The Government, realizing
the danger inherent to the concentration on two agricultural export commodi-
ties, embarked on a program of crop diversification as soon as the early
1960's. Oil palm, coconuts and rubber were among the main crops selected
initially for the country's forest zone and cotton for the savannah zone.
So far, significant progress has been made, notably in the establishment
of oil palms and the extension of cotton production.
10.       A 6o,300 ha oil palm development program was launched by the
Government in 1962 as part of a national program of 76,000 ha. Processing
facilities will be provided by 8 oil mills. At present, plantings of 44,000
ha of estate and outgrower oil palms are underway, of wihich nearly 36,000 ha
have already been completed. Two oil mills have also been constructed.
Investments for this ongoing part of the program represent approximately
$54 million equivalent, $40 million of which were provided by FED, and the
balance by CCCE ($1.5 million) and the Government ($12.5 million). Roughly
90 percent of the FED funds were provided as grants, the remainder as a
soft loan at 2 percent interest.
11.       The financing now proposed would permit the completion of the
Government oil palm program by 1974. It would include an oil mill at Ehania
and, in a joint operation with CCCE, 16,000 ha of oil palms (4,000 ha es-
tates and 12,000 ha outgrowers). In a parallel operation, EIB and CCCE
will jointly finance the remaining 5 oil mills. The Government has agreed
to inform the Bank before authorizing or carrying out any oil palm extension
beyond 76,000 ha.
12.       Government's coconut developlment started in 1967.  The program
provides for the establishment of 7,500 ha by 1971, of which 4,500 ha
estates and 3,000 ha outgrowers. Finance for the first 1,000 ha has been
provided by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). Program
completion would be financed by the Bank in a joint lending operation
with CCCE.
13.       The total investment in the Governmentis 60,000 ha oil palm and
7,500 ha coconut development programs is estimated at US$100 million by
197h, which is to be financed as follows:



- 4 -
Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED)
and European Investment Bank (EIB)            US$49 million
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) and the Fonds
dtAides et de Cooperation (FAC)                  11
Bank (excluding $4 million for interest
during construction)                             13
Ivory Coast Government                           24
Shareholders of PAIMINDJSTRIE                     3
US$100 million
B.        The Project Companies
14.       The project would be carried out by the companies described below.
SODEPALM
SODEPALI4 has a share capital of CFA francs 400 million ($1.6
million) which is held by the Government. It is essentially a technical
organization, well-qualified for field operations, and is responsible for
supervising oil palm outgrowers and coconut estates and outgrowers, in
addition to managing its own oil palm estates. It lacks, however, the
technical and international marketing experience which will be required
when its oil palm estates and mills are in production. For this reason,
PALMINDUSTRIE and PALMIVOIRE, described below, have been created.
PAIIUNDUSTRIE
P   fL'INDUSTRIE would own the oil mills.  Its initial share capital
of CFA francs 2.5 billion ($10 million) would be subscribed for as to 73
percent by the Government, 9 percent by Societe Nationale de Financeinent
(SONAFI), a government-owned investment institution, for later sale to
Ivorian private investors, and 18 percent by foreign investors, viz. African
subsidiaries of SOGESCOL, one of the largest traders in the oil palm market
and a Belgian subsidiary of SOCFIN, which is itself essentially a Belgian
concern; the Blohorn Group, an Ivorian-based private group of companies
which have the greater part of their industrial and agricultural interests
in the Ivory Coast and in other West African countries; and the four foreign-
owned commercial banks operating in the Ivory Coast.
PALNIVOIRE
PALMIVOIRE has an initial capital of CFA francs 50 million ($0.2
million), of which 40 percent would be subscribed by the Government, 20
percent by SONAFI, and 40 percent by the same foreign shareholders as in



- 5 -
PAI24INDUSTRIE, It would develop and manage as agent ("xmandataire") the
SODEPALM estates and PADfIlvINDUSTRIE oil mills. Although the three companies
remain legally independent, they would be linked in a form of joint venture
to be established under a contract of "Association en Participation".
15.       Oil palm outgrowers and coconut estates and outgrower developmenti,
will continue to be SODEPALM's exclusive responsibility, and will not fall
under the "Association en Participation". Accounts for these programs will
be kept strictly separate from those for SODEPALM's oil palm estates.
16.       Relations between the Government, SODEPALM and the private in-
vestors are governed by a "Protocole dtAccord" (memorandum of agreement)
which incorporates (a) the contract of "Association en Participation"
between SODEPAI2I, PALM.TDUSTRTP and PALvIIVOIRE, creating a Joint venture
valid for 30 years, (b) agreements between SODEPAI4i and PAL4IVOIRE and
between PATMONDUSTRIE and PIdl IVOIRE, giving PALiIVOIRE full powers to
execute SODEPAIE's and PALIINDUSTRIE's investment programs ("mandats
dtinvestissement"), to acminister their assets and to carry on the daily
operations of the joint venture ("1mandats de gestion") and (c) the "statuts'
of PAJINfDUSTRIE and PALIIIVOIRE.  In addition, the "Protocole d'Accord"
contains annexed agreements providing for certain technical and financial
commitments by the various shareholder groups.
17.       The "Protocole d1Accord" and these annexed agreements have been
revised to take into account the comments and requirements of the Bank, FED,
EIB and CCCE, are satisfactory to the Bank and have been signed by the
parties.  PAI1'INDUSTRIE and PAIIIVOIRE will be duly established and the
"Association en Participation" contract and the mandates executed prior to
signature of the Bank loan documents. It has been agreed that the "Protocole
d1Accord" and its annexed agreements would not be amended without the consent
of the Bank.
C.        The Bank Project
18.       It is proposed to make three separate loans under the Bank project:
(a) two loans, one to PALIVINDUSTRIE and one to SODEPALY1, of US$h.8
million and US$3.3 million respectively, for the investments to be adminis-
tered by PALMIVOIRE within the framework of the "Association en Partici-
pation", and
(b) a further loan of US$9.0 million to SODEPALM for oil palm out-
growers and coconut estates and outgrowers.
With this proposal, the Bank loans would follow the proposed separation of
SODEPALM's activities and accounts between oil palm estates and outgrower
and coconut activities (since EIS does not finance agricultural projects,
with the exception of irrigation infrastructure, it had requested that the
proposed lending operation reflect clearly such separation). The proposal



- 6 -
would also make Bank lending conform with CCCE lending, which already has
decided to make three such separate loans, and wjould harnonize Bank guarantee
requirements with those of BIB and CCEG by requiring a separate joint and
several guarantee of the Bankts loans for the Industrial Oil Palm Plantation
Project from PAU¶hINDUSTRIE and PADvIVOIRE and for -the Palm-Oil Processing
Project from SODEPAI?] and PALxIVOIRE. As a result, the debt service for tile
two Bank loans for the investments to be administered by PAUtIVOIRE within
the framewsork of the "Association en Participation" will be jointly and
severally guaranteed by SODEPAIvi, PAL4EINDUSTRIE and PAUAIVOIRE, the partici-
pants in the joint venture.
19.       In order to assure future cooperation between the co-lenders, the
Bank, EIB, CCCE and FED (whose loan will be administered by the EIB), a
Yemorandum of Understanding will be signed between the Bark, EIB, CCEG and
EIB on behalf of FED. This Memorandum of Understanding will provide for the
exchange of information and for consultation on matters of mutual interest
between the institutions, and for mutual disclosure of any decision to
suspend, cancel or premature any of the loans.
20.       Total cost of the Bank project is estimated at US$29 million.  The
proposed Bank loans total US$17.1 million equivalent; they would include
capitalized interest during the 6-year grace period and would correspond
approximately to the foreign exchange component (US$17.0 million), or 59
percent of project cost. CCCE would be co-lender and would contribute
US$5.8 million equivalent towards local cost over a period of 21 years,
including a 6-year grace period, at 4 1/4 percent interest. The balance
of US$6.2 million wzould be provided by the Government, private shareholders
and outgrowers. The Government contribution alone would represent 16 percent
of project cost. However, this relatively small proportion in the Bank
project is justified, since Government commitments towards the completion
of its overall oil palm and coconut development progran would exceed US$24
million by 1974. This is almost 25 percent of overall cost, and Government
contribution could be higher, should produce selling prices fall below those
estimated by the Bank.
21.       Procurement will be on the basis of international competitive
bidding.  Imports made by SODEPALH and PALMINDUSTRIE with the proceeds of
external loans will be free of import duties.
22.       The Government has requested retroactive financing of eligible
project expenditures since January 1, 1968. As stated before (see para. 2)
the Bank appraised the project in early 1967. At that time, the Government
had decided to obtain private investment in PAI2NlDUSTRIE and PALNIIVOIRE.
Negotiations took longer than expected, because of the need to reconcile
the various requirements of the prospective borrowers including the private
sector and those of the foreign lending institutions FED, EIB, CCCE and the
Bank. Mien further delays became obvious towards the end of 1967, the
Government approached the Bank to ensure that late financing would not up-
set its ongoing program and that tendering and contract awards could be made
in accordance with the existing integrated time schedules. Considering the



- 7 -
circumstances I think it would be appropriate for the Bank to finance ex-
penditures from January 1, 1968, as EIB and CCCE have already agreed to do.
The amount involved under the B.nk project is between US$1.5 and 2.0 million.
23.       Annual production derived from project plantings, once they are in
full bearing in the late 1970's, is estimated at about 39,000 tons of palm
oil, 9,400 tons of palm kernel and 16,500 tons of copra, with a total value
of about US$8.3 million equivalent. Between 50 and 60 percent of the pro-
duction would be exported. Marketing of palm oil and kernel exports would
be assured by PAU'MIVOIRE with the help of SOGESCOL, a major trader in fats
and oils on the European market and one of the private participants, through
its subsidiaries, in the "Association en Participation". SOGESCOL has agreed
in special arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to give palm produce,
marketed at PALMIVOIREts request, equal treatment in volume and price with
produce marketed for SOCFIN, SOGESCOL's parent company, which has world-wide
interests in oil palm plantations. Local sales of palm oil would be to the
Blohorn group, another participant in the Association and the only industrial
processor of crude palm oil in the Ivory Coast. Pricing arrangements for
Blohorn purchases, satisfactory to the Bank, are based on ruling export
prices obtainable in Europe; palm oil for the local market is sold on the
same basis.
24.       Successful implementation of the project would represent a notable
step forward in the Governmentts crop diversification efforts. Dependence
of the economy on coffee and cocoa would diminish as an appreciable pro-
portion of outgrowers oil palms would replace robusta coffee produced in
excess of International Coffee Agreement quotas. Furthermore, the shift
from traditional farming methods to commercial systems employing efficient
cultivation and processing techniques, would be accelerated by the blend of
estates and outgrower developments, permitting more than 3,000 outgrower
families to benefit from the demonstration effect of the estates and from
the latter's processing and marketing facilities. Returns to outgrowers
would be substantially higher than those obtainable from traditional crops.
For oil palms, returns per man-day employed would average CFAF 500 to 600
net of repayment of credits (12 years) and CFAF 725 to 850 in the subsequent
period once credits have been repaid; returns currently obtainable from
traditional coffee production would be about CFAF 400. For coconut out-
growers, returns would reach between CFAF 500 and 800 during the credit
repayment period (15 years) and between CFAF 1,250 and 1,550 thereafter.
25.       The economic rate of return for the overall Bank project is esti-
mated at more than 11 percent; the individual rates of return would be be-
tween 10 percent and 11 percent for oil palm estates, between 13 percent
and 14 percent for oil palm outgrowiers and approximately 9 percent for
coconut estates and outgrowers. The lowier rate for the coconut element
of the project is due to the long gestation period of the plantings. The
financial rate of return of the overall project has been estimated at 10
percent to 11 percent. Individual rates would be about 10 percent for oil
palm estates, 13 percent for oil palm outgrowers and 9 percent for coconut
estates and outgrowers.



- 8 -
26.       A sensitivity analysis of the economic rate of return has been
made (see Annex 15 of Appraisal Report), based on alternative assumptions
regarding yields, world prices for oil palm products and copra, and esti-
mated opportunity cost of labor in the Ivory Coast.   It shows that on the
assumption of yields made in the report, and without making any adjustment
for the opportunity cost of labor, the price of palm oil would have to fall
below $144 per ton for the overall economic rate of return to fall below
10 percent.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUkNlITS AND AUTHORITY
27.       The following draft documents are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately:
(a) (i) the Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project)
between the Bank on the one hand and SODEPALM and PULMIVOIRE on the other;
(ii) the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm
Plantation Project) between the Bank on the one hand and PALI1INDUSTRIE and
PALMIVOIRE on the other;
(iii) the Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation
Project) between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Bank;
(b) (i) the Loan Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) between
the Bank on the one hand and PAI1IDJUSTRIE and PAIMIVOIRE on the other;
(ii) the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing
Project) between the Bank on the one hand and SODEPAIi and PALMIVOIRE on
the other;
(iii) the Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project)
between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Bank;
(c) (i) the Loan Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut
Project) between the Bank and SODEPALM:
(ii) the Guarantee Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut
Project) between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Bank.
28.       In addition to the above the following documents are also being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately:
(a) a Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement (relating to the Industrial Oil Palm
Plantation Project);
(b) a Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement (relating to the Palm-Oil Processing
Project);



-9 -
(c) a Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement (relating to the Oil Palm Outgrowers and
Coconut Project);
(d) draft resolutions approving the three loans.
29.       One feature of both the draft Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm
Plantation Project) and the draft Loan Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project)
which is unusual is that PALNIVOIRE is to be a co-signatory to both Loan
Agreements. This requirement reflects the fact that by virtue of the mandate-
agreemrents between SODEPULL and PALIVOIRE and between PALMINDUSTRIE and
PALMIVOIRE, PALIIVOIRE has been vested with full powers for the execution of
SODEPALMs industrial oil palm investment program, for the management of
SODEPALM's oil palm estates and for the investment program and assets of
PALNINDUSTRIE. Since PALMIVOIRE is accordingly the entity which will carry
out the projects to be financed under these two loans and manages the affairs
of the Borrowers, the covenants of the Loan Agreements relating to the carry-
ing out of the Project and the management and operations of the Borrower are
subscribed to by both the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE as "mandataire"T of the
Borrower.
30.       The following additional features of the loan documents are of
particular interest.
(a) The Republic of the Ivory Coast, in addition to its guarantee
of the three loans, would provide advances or contributions, the payment of
which would be subordinated to the payment of the Bank loans and other ex-
ternal financing, in case of liquidation of any of the three companies, to
cover any cash deficits resulting from the operations of the joint venture
of SODEPATI', PALMINDUSTRIE and PAiiIVOIRE and from the operations of SODEPALM
outside the joint venture as well as covering any shortfalls in the combined
liquid assets of the joint venture or those of SODEPALI outside the joint
venture from a required level - Section 2.02 of the three Guarantee Agree-
ments.
(b) The three companies would not declare or pay dividends to
their shareholders (with the exception in the case of PALI-VOIRE of divi-
dends corresponding to the management fees due to PALMIVOIRE), nor would
SODEPALM make any payments for social purposes if, or if as a result thereof5
the Republic of the Ivory Coast would be required to make advances or contri-
butions pursuant to the commitment referred to above - Sections 5.12 of the
Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project) and of the Loan
Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) and Sections 2.o4 of the Companies
Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project) and of the
Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) and Section 5.l3
of the Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project).
(c) PAUIIVOIRE (the managing company of the joint venture) would
at all times be managed by a qualified and experienced "Directeur-General"
and "Directeur-General Adjoint" acceptable to the Bank, and SODEPALHI by a



- 10 -
qualified and experienced "'Directeur-Gn'eral acceptable to the Bank, and
both PALMINDUSTRIE and SODEPALM would consult with the Bank prior to making
appointments to their senior management positions - Sections 5.01 (b) and (c)
of the Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project) and of the
Loan Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project).
(d) The three companies would adopt management training and re-
cruitment programs satisfactory to the Bank for the training of Ivory Coast
nationals - Sections 5.16 of the Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm
Plantation Project) and of the Loan Agreement (Palm Oil Processing Project)
and Section 5.14 of the Loan Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut
Project).
(e) The three companies would not undertake, whether for their
own account or for the account of third parties, any new projects or de-
velopments or make any investments, not related to the three projects if,
in the reasonable judgment of the Bank, such action would prejudice the
financial condition of the companies or their ability to carry out their
obligations under the respective Loan Agreements - Sections 5.10 of the
Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Projeot), of the Loan Agree-
ment (Palm-Oil Processing Project) and the Loan Agreement (Oil Palm Out-
growers and Coconut Project).
(f) The Republic of the Ivory Coast would inform the Bank before
authorizing any extension in its oil palm development program beyond the
76,000 ha authorized under its present legislation - Sections 3.07 of the
Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project) and of the
Guarantee Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut Project).
(g) SODEPALN would ensure that prices paid to outgrowers would
be maintained at levels necessary to assure balances between the SODEPAU4
outgrower expenses and receipts and to assure a minimum financial return
of 7 percent on direct and indirect investments made by the Republic of
the Ivory Coast on the SODEPALI outgrower program, during the life of the
oil palms - Section 5.17 of the Loan Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and
Coconut Project).
(h) The effectiveness of each of the Bank's three loan agreements
would be dependent on the effectiveness of the other two Bank loan agree-
ments and upon the effectiveness of the respective loan agreements of EIB,
CCCE and FED - Sections 7.01 of the Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm
Plantation Project), the Loan Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) and
the Loan Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut Project).
PART V - THE ECONOM\fY
31.       A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economic Situation and
Prospects - Ivory Coast" (AF-76a) dated July 3, 1968, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on July 15, 1968. The "success story" of the



- 11 -
Ivory Coast is summarized in the Presidentts report for a highway loan of
May 29, 1968 (P-604). It is one of rapid economic growth, at an average
annual rate of about 8 percent since independence, resulting mainly from a
doubling of exports between 1960 and 1967 and from levels of investment
maintained at around 18 percent of GDP througout the period, in a context
of great political stability. Growth has been accompanied by an increase
of public savings and the Government has been able to finance about 70 per-
cent of total public investment during the past years. The trade balance
has shown continued surpluses. The year 1968 shows no sign of diminished
impetus. Political stability and liberal policies within the framework of
the franc zone have been instrumental in attracting a sizeable inflow of
private capital and foreign skills where necessary.
32.       The outlook for the next decade is one of continued growth although
probably at a somewhat slower pace than in the past. Of the three major items
which now together contribute two-thirds of total exports, coffee, timber and
cocoa, prospects are favorable only for the latter. Demand for coffee will
not grow by more than about 2.5 percent per annum, while there are limita-
tions to the increase in the supply of timber. Since the late 1950's, the
Government has engaged in a vigorous policy of diversification, including
the production of some industrial import substitutes.
33.       Diversification, moreover, is the principal aim of the Ivory Coasts'-;
agricultural policy. It focuses largely on the development of the production
of pineapples, bananas, cotton, rice, palm oil, coconuts and rubber. Although
some of these products may well experience price declines in the future, an
increase in their output will make possible a further rise in exports and maice
exports less dependent on fluctuations in the prices of a few commodities.
This diversification has important implications for an improvement in resource
allocation as between regions. Further development in certain regions will
require additional manpower and thus attract labor from regions currently
experiencing inadequate and relatively poorly paid employment opportunities.
In some of the latter regions which have not participated significantly in
past economic progress, new cash crops will be promoted. Such is the case
of cotton in the North and of coconuts in the coastal area. In this way,
the imbalance which has characterized development in the past may to some
extent be overcome. Finally, it should be noted that part of the production
that will be newly developed is destined for local consumption and processing
or for export to other African countries; this, for example, is the case, in
varying degrees, for cotton, rice, pineapple and oil palm products.
34.       The financial prospects raise no problems for the medium term.   Ths
current low debt service ratio (5 to 6 percent of exports of goods and services)
leaves room for the increase in external borrowing that will be necessary to
finance a somewhat higher share of public investment than in the past. By
1974, however, the country will start reimbursing the bulk of the external
loans, totalling about $95 million, contracted for the two large projects of
the San Pedro area development and Kossou (Bandama) dam. Thus, in the late
1970ts and in the succeeding decade debt service will probably rise to about
10 percent of export proceeds. This ratio should still be manageable in the



- 12 -
light of the exceIlent growth potential of the Ivory Coastts economy. The
external reserves imputed to the Ivory Coast within the ibst African Monetary
Union have been consistently high. They have increased two and a half times
between 1962 and mid-1968. At that date they amounted to hO percent of the
Union's total external assets and represented about three months imports.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREDEMNT
35.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articlos
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
36.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the three proposed
loans.
Attachment                                Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
May 2, 1969



