CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 612 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Palm-Oil Processing Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE
AND
SOCIETE PALMIVOIRE
DATED JUNE 13, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 612 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Palm-Oil Processing Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE
AND
SOCIETE PALMIVOIRE
DATED JUNE 13, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1969, between INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank) and SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE (here-
inafter called the Borrower), a company established and
operating under the laws of the Republic of the Ivory
Coast and SOCIETE PALMIVOIRE (hereinafter called PALMI-
VOIRE), a company established and operating under the
laws of the Republic of the Ivory Coast, acting in its capac-
ity as madataire of the Borrower pursuant to a mandat
d'investissement and a mandat de gestion as hereinafter
described.
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower is engaged in carrying out
the palm-oil processing project described in Schedule 1 to
this Loan Agreement and has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of such project by granting a loan (here-
inafter called the Loan) to it in an aggregate principal
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million
eight hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000);
(B) The Borrower intends to contract from the Euro-
pean Investment Bank (hereinafter called EIB) a loan
(hereinafter called the EIB Loan) in an aggregate princi-
pal amount equivalent to nine million one hundred thousand
dollars ($9,100,000) to assist in financing five palm-oil mills
at Anguededou, Bolo, Boubo, Soubrc and Tiegba and re-
lated facilities on the terms and conditions as are set forth
in the agreement between EIB and the Borrower (herein-
after called the EIB Loan Agreement);
(C) The Borrower intends to contract from the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called
Caisse Centrale), an agency of the Republic of France, a
loan (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale PALMIN-
DUSTRIE Loan) in an amount of fifteen million French
0


﻿4
francs (French francs 15,000,000) to assist in financing the
palm-oil mills at Anguededou, Bolo, Boubo, Soubre and
Tiegba and related facilities, on the terms and coiditions
set forth in the agreement between Caisse Centrale and
the Borrower (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale
PALMINDUSTRIE Loan Agreement);
(D) By agreement of even date herewith between the
Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Bank, which agreement
is hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement, the Repub-
lic of the Ivory Coast has agreed to guarantee the Loan
as to payment of principal, interest and other charges;
(E) The Borrower has undertaken to process the oil
palm fresh fruit bunch production of the Societe pour le
D6veloppement et I'Exploitation du Palmier & ILle (here-
inafter called SODEPALM), a Societe' d'etat established
and operating under the laws of the Republic of the Ivory
Coast, and of the oil palm outgrowers sponsored by the
Borrower;
(F) The Borrower has entrusted the management of all
aspects of its business to PALMIVOIRE under a mandat
d'investissement and a mandat de gestion;
(G) SODEPALM has similarly entrusted the manage-
ment of its industrial oil palm plantations and related oper-
ations and installations to PALMIVOIRE under a mandat
d'investissement and a mandat de gestion;
(H) By agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank, on the one side, and SODEPALM      and PALMI-
VOIRE, on the other side, which agreement is hereinafter
called the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil
Processing Project), SODEPALM and PALMIVOIRE
have undertaken certain obligations regarding the Loan
on the terms and conditions set forth in such agreement;
(I) The execution and financing of the said project is
dependent on the joint efforts of both the Borrower and


﻿5
PALMIVOIRE, as mandataire of the Borrower, and it is
therefore desirable that an agreement providing for the
loan be entered into by the Bank, the Borrower and PALMI-
VOIRE; and
(J) The Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now TTEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Loan Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement accept
all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the Bank,
dated February 15, 1961 as amended February 9, 1967,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement (said Loan
Regulations No. 4, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the Loan Regulations).
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Loan Agreement
have the following meanings:
(a) The term "FED PreY Spcial" means the loan agree-
ment to be entered into between, on the one side, the Euro-
pean Economic Community (hereinafter called EEC) and
the EIB acting as agent of the EEC, and on the other side
SODEPALM, in accordance with which funds provided by
the European Development Fund (hereinafter called FED)
of the EEC will assist in financing 5,400 ha of industrial
oil palm plantations;
(b) The term "First Caisse Centrale SODEPALM
Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to be entered
into between SODEPALM and Caisse Centrale in accord-


﻿6
ance with which Caisse Centrale is to assist in financing
the industrial oil palm plantation project described in
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm
Plantation Project) of even date herewith between the
Bank and SODEPALM;
(c) The term " Second Caisse Centrale SODEPALM
Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement to be entered
into between SODEPALM and Caisse Centrale in accord-
ance with which Caisso Centrale is to assist in financing
the oil palm outgrowers and coconut project described in
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers
and Coconut Project) of even date herewith between the
Bank and SODEPALM;
(d) The term "Guarantor-Companies " means the Guar-
antors parties to the Companies Guarantee Agreement
(Palm-Oil Processing Project) and includes any of their
successors and assigns;
(e) The term "Protocole d'Accord" means the Agree-
ment together with all its annexes dated June 24, 1968
(as amended by an Ave'eant dated April 22, 1969), between
the Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Borrower on the
one side and on the other side Societe Sogescol S.A.,
Soci6te La Forestiere Equatoriale, Societe d'Etudes pour
h, D6veloppement de la Culture Bananire, Soci6te des
Plantations des Terres Rouges, Soci6t6 Franco-Africaine
de Raffinage, Societe Immobili're Elaeis, Banque Inter-
nationale pour 1'Afrique Occidentale, Societe Generale de
Banques en Cote d'voire, Soci&t Ivoirienne de Banque,
Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et I 'Industrie en
Cote d'Ivoire, and Societe Nationale de Financement;
(f) The term "outside debt" shall mean the Loan, the
Caisse Centrale PALMINDUSTRIE Loan, the EIB Loan
and any other loans which the Borrower may hereafter
contract (other than contributions and advances made
by the Republic of the Ivory Coast) which shall be deemed,
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, to con-
stitute outside debt for purposes of this Loan Agreement;


﻿7
(g) The term "subsidiary" means any corporation, at
least a majority of the outstanding voting stock of which
shall be owned, or which shall be effectively controlled, by
the Borrower or by PALMIVOIRE or by one or more sub-
sidiaries of the Borrower or PALMIVOIRE or by the Bor-
rower or PALMIVOIRE and one or more of their respec-
tive subsidiaries;
(h) The term  "contributions" wherever used in this
Loan Agreement shall have the same meaning as defined
in Section 2.02 (b) (vi) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(i) The term "advances'' wherever used in this Loan
Agreement shall have the same meaning as defined by
Section 2.02 (b) (vii) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(j) The term "FER" shall mean the Fonds d'Extensio%
et de, Renouvellement, an autonomous fund with full legal
personality established pursuant to Law No. 69-246, dated
June 12, 1969, and Decree No. 69-264, dated June 12, 1969;
(k) The term  "CSSPPA" shall mean the Caisse de
Stabilisation et dc Soutien des Prix des Productions Agri-
coles, a Societd d'etat of the Republic of the Ivory Coast
established pursuant to Decree No. 66-445 dated September
21, 1966;
(1) The term "PALMINDUSTRIE mandat d'investisse-
ment" means the agreement dated May 12, 1969, between
the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE whereby the Borrower
has fully authorized and empowered PALMIVOIRE to act
as agent of the Borrower in order to carry out and exe-
cute the investment program of the Borrower providing
for the construction of palm oil processing mills at Ehania,
Anguededou, Tiegba, Boubo, Bolo, Soubr6, Toumanguie and
Eloka, and the completion of related facilities, in return
for a fixed fee of 60,000,000 Francs CFA payable over a
five year period commencing from the date of signing of
the PALMINDUSTRIE mandat d'investissement;


﻿8
(m) The term "'SODEPALM imandat d'investissement"
means the agreement dated May 12, 1969 between SODE-
PALM and PALMIVOIRE whereby SODEPALM has fully
authorized and empowered PALMIVOIRE to act as agent
of SODEPALM in order to carry out and execute the in-
vestment program of SODEPALM providing for the estab-
lishment of industrial oil palm  plantations and related
facilities in return for a fixed fee of 90,000,000 Francs CFA
payable over a five-year period commencing from the date
of signing of the SODEPALM mandat d'investissement;
(n) The term "PALMINDUSTRIE mandat de gestion"
means the agreement dated May 12, 1969 between the
Borrower and PALMIVOIRE whereby the Borrower has
fully authorized and empowered PALMIVOIRE to act as
its agent in running the affairs of the Borrower and man-
aging all its properties and interests for a period of 30
years commencing January 1, 1969 and terminating Decem-
ber 31, 1998;
(o) The term "SODEPALM mandat do gestion" means
the agreement dated May 12, 1969 between SODEPALM
and PALMIVOIRE whereby SODEPALM has fully author-
ized and empowered PALMIVOIRE to act as its agent in
managing SODEPALM's industrial oil palm plantations
and related operations and facilities for a period of 30
years commencing January 1, 1969 and terminating Decem-
ber 31, 1998.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Loan Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to four million eight hundred thousand dollars
($4,800,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Bank shall open a Loan Account
on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit
to such Account the amount of the Loan.


﻿9
(b) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Loan Agree-
ment and the Loan Regulations and in accordance with the
allocation of the proceeds of the Loan set forth in Schedule
2 to this Loan Agreement, as such allocation shall be modi-
flied from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
drawn from the Loan Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed
under this Loan Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for the c.i.f. price of goods
produced outside the territories of the Republic of
the Ivory Coast and included under Categories 1
and 2 of the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement;
(ii) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for expenditures under Cate-
gories 3, 4 and 5 of said Schedule 2;
(iii) such amounts as shall be required to meet payments
to be made for expenditures under Category 6 of
said Schedule 2;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in
the estimate of expenditures under Categories 3, 4 or 5 of
said Schedule 2, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
adjust the above percentage as required in order that with-
drawals of the amount of the Loan then allocated to such
Categories and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the expenditures remaining to be made under such Cate-
gories.


﻿10
(b) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower, no withdrawals shall be made on
account of: (i) expenditures made prior to January 1,
1968, or (ii) expenditures made in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in (including services
supplied from) such territories.
SECTION 2.04. Withdrawals from the Loan Account pur-
suant to Section 2.03 (a) (ii) of this Loan Agreement shall
be in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably select.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of six and one-half per cent (61,%o) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the charge payable for special com-
mitments entered into by the Bank at the request of the
Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Loan Regulations
shall be at the rate of one-half of one per cent (  of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of any such special
commitment outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Loan Agreement.


﻿11
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall
apply the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Loan Agreement to expenditures on the
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
(i) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Pro-
curement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, pub-
lished by the Bank in February 1968, and in accordance
with such other procedures supplementary thereto as are
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement or as shall
be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower and PALMI-
VOIRE, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such
goods shall be subject to the approval of the Bank.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall cause all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. If and as the Bank shall from time to time
request, the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds rep-
resenting the principal amount of the Loan as provided in
Article VI of the Loan Regulations.
SECTION 4.02. The President du Conseil d'Administra-
tion of the Borrower is designated as authorized repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purpose of Section 6.12
of the Loan Regulations. The President di Conseil d'Ad-


﻿12
ministration of the Borrower may designate additional or
other authorized representatives by appointment in writing
notified to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. (a) The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound agricultural, industrial, engi-
neering, commercial and financial practices.
(b) The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall at all times
employ experienced and qualified persons in all of their
respective senior management positions and shall consult
with the Bank prior to appointing the Directeur-Technique,
Directeur des Services Comptables, and the Ingenieur-en-
Ohef des Hfuileries, all of whom shall be employed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) PALMIVOIRE shall at all times be managed by a
qualified and experienced Directeur-General and Directeur-
Ge"neral Adjoint acceptable to the Bank and employed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans and
work schedules for the Project and any material modifica-
tions subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Bank
shall from time to time request.
(e) Until the completion of the Project the Borrower
and PALMIVOIRE shall furnish their draft annual budgets
and all other financial plans to the Bank at least six weeks
before the end of the financial year and, upon their adop-
tion, they shall promptly transmit the annual budget and
financial plans to the Bank.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE
shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-


﻿13
ceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof in the Project,
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof), and to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations and finan-
cial condition of the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE and all
financial transactions between the Republic of the Ivory
Coast, the Borrower, PALMIVOIRE and SODEPALM
with respect to the Project; shall enable the Bank's repre-
seitatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, the Project, and
the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE, and also such informa-
tion as the Bank shall request concerning the Borrower's
and PALMIVOIRE's financial plans, decisions or policies
relating to Sections 5.07, 5.10 and 5.12 of this Loan Agree-
ment, Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.02 of the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil
Processing Project) and Section 2.02 of the Companies
Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation
Project) between the Bank, the Borrower and PALM-
IVOIRE.
(b) The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall have their
financial statements (balance sheets and related statemaenits
of earnings and expenses) prepared in a manner satisfac-
tory to the Bank and shall have their statements certified
annually by an independent accountant or accounting firm
acceptable to the Bank and shall promptly after their prepa-
ration and not later than four months after the close of the
fiscal year to which they apply, transmit to the Bank cer-
tified copies of such statements and a signed copy of such
accountant's or accounting firm's report.
SECTION 5.03. (a) The Bank, the Borrower and PALMI-
VOIRE shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes


﻿14
of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the others all such information as shall be
reasonably requested.
(b) The Bank, the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall
from time to time exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Bor-
rower and PALMIVOIRE shall promptly inform the Bank
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to in-
terfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower or PALMIVOIRE of their
obligations under this Loan Agreement.
SECTION 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower (a) shall obtain or cause PALMIVOIRE to
obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in part with
the proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances;
and (b) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property and assets except in the ordinary
course of business.                                                     W
SECTION 5.05. The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE under-
take that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) if the Borrower or PALMIVOIRE shall create any
lien on any of the assets of the Borrower (including any
assets owned jointly with others or held by others for the
Borrower's account) as security for any debt, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the
Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express
provision will be made to that effect; and
(b) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower (including any assets owned jointly with others
or held by others for the Borrower's account), other than
under (a) above, as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to
the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions


﻿15
of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
SECTION 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall not incur any debt
(other than contributions or advances provided pursuant
to Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement) maturing more
than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
SECTION 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall take all action re-
quired on their part to request and obtain promptly as
needed such funds as the Republic of the Ivory Coast has
undertaken to provide or cause to be provided under Sec-
tion 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.
SECTION 5.08. (a) The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE
shall at all times manage their affairs and maintain their
financial position in accordance with sound industrial, com-
mercial and financial practices and, in particular, shall
adequately maintain all the equipment and fixed assets
relevant or necessary to the carrying out and operation of
the Project and promptly make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower and PALMIVOIRE shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
SECTION 5.09. (a) The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank, for insur-


﻿16
ance against such risks and in such amount as shall be
consistent with sound industrial and commercial practices.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower and PALMIVOIRE undertake to insure the im-
ported goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower and PALMIVOIRE to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 5.10. The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall
inform the Bank prior to undertaking or executing any new
project or development other than the Project or making
any investment not related to the Project (other than in-
vestment of idle funds in securities readily convertible into
cash and with the exception of the proposed extension in
the processing capacity of the Eloka mill to 20 metric tons
per hour and of the Toumangie mill to 30 metric tons per
hour) and shall not undertake or execute for their own
account or for the account of any third party or parties
any such project, development or investment if in the rea-
sonable judgment of the Bank such action would prejudice
the financial condition of the Borrower and the ability of
the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE to carry out and operate
the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Loan
Agreement.
SECTION 5.11. (a) The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE
shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, take any
action to create any subsidiary.
(b) The obligations of the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE
expressed in this Loan Agreement shall be applied to any
subsidiary of the Borrower or PALMIVOIRE as though
such obligations were directly binding on any such sub-
sidiary, and the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall cause
any such subsidiary to carry out such obligations.


﻿17
SECTION 5.12. The Borrower shall not declare or pay
dividends on its share capital if, or if as a result thereof,
advances shall be required to be made by the Republic of
the Ivory Coast under Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agree-
ment.
SECTION 5.13. Subject to such exemptions as shall be
conferred by the provisions of Section 3.03 and Section 3.04
of the Guarantee Agreement or otherwise, the Borrower
shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any, imposed under
the laws of the Republic of the Ivory Coast or laws in effect
in its territories on or in connection with the execution,
issue, delivery or registration of the Loan Agreement, the
Guarantee Agreement, the Companies Guarantee Agree-
ment (Palm-Oil Processing Project) or the Bonds, or the
payment of principal, interest or other charges thereunder;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a
holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident
of the Republic of the Ivory Coast.
SECTION 5.14. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the coun-
try or countries in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds
are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such
country or countries on or in connection with the execution,
issue, delivery or registration of the Loan Agreement, the
Guarantee Agreement, the Companies Guarantee Agree-
ment (Palm-Oil Processing Project) or the Bonds.
SECTION 5.15. The Borrower shall call upon its share-
holders to pay in their respective capital subscriptions
promptly as needed for the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 5.16. The Borrower and PALMIVOIRE shall
adopt a management training and recruitment program sat-


﻿18
isfactory to the Bank for the training of Ivory Coast
nationals and shall maintain training facilities for this
purpose.
SECTION 5.17. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall not repay in advance of maturity
any part of its indebtedness other than under its outside
debt.
(b) If the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity
any part of its outside debt (other than the Loan), the
Borrower shall simultaneously repay the same proportion
of the Loan then outstanding and all the provisions of the
Loan Regulations relating to repayment in advance of
maturity shall be applicable to any repayment by the Bor-
rower pursuant to this Section.
SECTION 5.18. In the event of liquidation, termination
or dissolution or winding up of the Borrower the principal
and other amounts payable on the outside debt of the Bor-
rower shall first be paid before any payment is made on
account of contributions or advances made by the Republic
of the Ivory Coast.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 6.01. If any event as specified below shall occur
and shall continue for the period, if any, specified below,
then at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof,
the Bank, at its option, may declare the principal of the
Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such
principal shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing in this Loan Agreement or in the Bonds to the con-
trary notwithstanding:
(i) any event specified in paragraph (m) of Section 5.02
of the Loan Regulations; or


﻿19
(ii) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (f), (g)
or (n) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations, for
a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; or
(iii) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (p), (q),
(r) or (s) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations,
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Loan Agree-
ment and the Guarantee Agreement within the meaning
of Section 9.01 (d) of the Loan Regulations:
(a) that all such action, governmental, corporate or
other, shall have been taken and all such governmental
consents shall have been obtained as may be required to
enable the Borrower to acquire such lands, interests in land
and properties and such franchises or other rights as may
be necessary for the prompt and proper execution of the
Project;
(b) that the Protocole d'Accord shall have entered into
full force and effect in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the PALMINDUSTRIE       miandat d'investisse-
ment and the PALMINDUSTRIE mandat de gestion shall
have entered into full force and effect in accordance with
their respective terms;
(d) that the EIB Loan Agreement and the Caisse Cen-
trale PALMINDUSTRIE Loan Agreement, corresponding
in form and substance to the drafts of said agreements sub-
mitted to the Bank, shall have been duly executed and deliv-
ered and that the conditions precedent, if any, to the effec-
tiveness of, or to the initial disbursements under, the said


﻿20
Agreements shall have been fulfilled, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Loan Agreement;
(e) that the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut
Project) between the Bank and SODEPALM and corre-
sponding Guarantee Agreement shall have been fulfilled,
subject only to the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement;
(f) that the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement (Oil Palm Plantation Project) between
the Bank and SODEPALM and corresponding Guarantee
Agreement shall have been fulfilled, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Loan Agreement;
(g) that the execution and delivery of the Companies
Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) on
behalf of the Guarantor-Companies shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and gov-
ernmental action; and
(h) that the Avenant to the FED-Republic of Ivory
Coast Convention 331 dated May 28, 1969 and the corre-
sponding agreements between the Republic of the Ivory
Coast and SODEPALM, and between FER and SODE-
PALM shall have entered into full force and effect.
SECTION 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 9.02 (c) of the Loan
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Borrower is duly organized and existing
under the laws of the Republic of the Ivory Coast and has
full power to own or lease the properties and to carry on
the business which it owns and carries on and proposes to
own and carry on for the purpose of the Project;
(b) that PALMIVOIRE is duly organized and existing
under the laws of the Republic of the Ivory Coast and has
full power to own or manage the properties which it owns
or manages and to carry on the business which it owns and


﻿21
carries on or proposes to own or carry on for the purpose
of the Project;
(c) that the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil
Processing Project) has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Guarantor-
Companies and that such Agreement constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Guarantor-Companies in accord-
ance with its terms;
(d) that the governmental, corporate or other actions
and consents referred to in Section 7.01 (a) have been
validly taken or given, as the case may be, and that they
have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
by the appropriate authority or authorities;
(e) that the governmental, corporate or other actions
and consents which are necessary to make the Protocole
d'Accord valid and enforceable in accordance with its terms
have been taken or given, as the case may be, and that the
Protocole d'Accord has been duly authorized and ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties
thereto and that such Protocole d'Accord constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the parties thereto in accordance
with its terms; and
(f) that the PALMINDUSTRIE mandat d'investisse-
mwent and the PALMINDUSTRIE mandat de gestion have
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto and that they
provide the Borrower with the legal authority and powers
necessary to enable the Borrower to carry out its functions
and responsibilities with respect to the execution of the
Project.
SECTION 7.03. If this Loan Agreement and the Guaran-
tee Agreement shall not have come into force and effect
by October 13, 1969, this Loan Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for purposes of this Section. The


﻿22
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower, PALMIVOIRE,
the Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Guarantor-
Companies of such later date.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 8.01. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1975,
or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank.
SECTION 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Societe Pahnindustrie
P.O. Box 2049
Abidjan
Republic of the Ivory Coast
Alternative address for cables:
Palmindustrie
Abidjan
For PALMIVOIRE:
Societe Palmivoire
P.O. Box 2049
Abidjan
Republic of the Ivory Coast


﻿23
Alternative address for cables:
Palmivoire
Abidjan
SECTION 8.03. Except where the context otherwise re-
quires, all obligations of the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE
expressed in the conjunctive in this Loan Agreement shall
be joint and several. The obligation of the Borrower or of
PALMIVOIRE to comply with any such provisions of this
Loan Agreement is not subject to any prior notice to,
domand upon or action against the other.
IN TVITNESS WIIEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America,. as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ SIMON ALDEWERELD
Vice President
SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE
By /s/ KONAN KoUADIO
Authorized Representative
SOCIETE PALMIVOIRE
By /s/ GiRALD LANCKSWEERT
Authorized Representative


﻿24
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part I-The design, construction and commissioning of
a T alm oil mill on the Ehania estate designed to allow
0 velopment to a final operating capacity of at least 60 tons
of oil palm fresh fruit bunches per hour, in accordance
with the following operating capacity time-table:
By 1970-approximately 10 tons per hour
By 1972-approximately 20 tons per hour
By 1973-approximately 30 tons per hour
By 1974-approximately 40 tons per hour
By 1975-approximately 50 tons per hour
Part 11-The design, construction, installation and com-
missioning of infrastructure and ancillary installations re-
quired to ensure the efficient operation of the palm oil
processing mill in Part I.
Part III-The purchase of tractors and trailers and of
motor vehicles required:
(a) for the collection and delivery to the palm oil proc-
essing mill in Part I of fresh fruit bunches produced
on the Ehania estate of about 10,000 ha, and by outgrowers
cultivating about 2,000 ha of oil palms in the vicinity of
the Ehania estate;
(b) for the transportation of palm products from the
palm oil processing mill to be established under Part I,
to Abidjan and other marketing centers; and
(c) for the efficient operation and maintenance of the
palm oil processing mill to be established under Part I.
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1974.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Amounts Expressed
Category                            in U.S. $ Equivalent
Imports
1. Ehania palm    oil processing mill
machinery and plant and equipment
for ancillary installations              1,766,000
2. Vehicles                                  180,000
Local Materials, Construction and Services
3. Construction of Ehania mill and
ancillary installations                 1,060,000
4. Installation of mill machinery and
plant and equipment for ancillary
installations                             567,000
5. Tanks for oil transportation               69,000
6. Interest and other charges on the
Loan until December 31, 1974              988,000
7. Unallocated                               170,000
Total                               4,800,000
1. If the estimate of the cost of items included in Cate-
gories 1-6 shall decrease, the amount of the Loan then
allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated by the Bank to Category 7.
2. If the estimate of the cost of items included in Cate-
gories 1-6 shall increase, an amount equal to the portion,
if any, of such increase to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan (or, in the case of Categories 3, 4 and 5 an
amount equal to 70%/ of such increase) will be allocated
by the Bank at the request of the Borrower to such Cate-
gory from Category 7, subject, however, to the require-
ments for contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in
respect of the other Categories.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1975                          90,000
November 1, 1975                     95,000
May 1, 1976                         100,000
November 1, 1976                    100,000
May 1, 1977                         105,000
November 1, 1977                    110,000
May 1, 1978                         110,000
November 1, 1978                    115,000
May 1, 1979                         120,000
November 1, 1979                    125,000
May 1, 1980                         125,000
November 1, 1980                    130,000
May 1, 1981                         135,000
November 1, 1981                    140,000
May 1, 1982                         145,000
November 1, 1982                    150,000
May 1, 1983                         155,000
November 1, 1983                    160,000
May 1, 1984                         165,000
November 1, 1984                    170,000
May 1, 1985                         175,000
November 1, 1985                    180,000
May 1, 1986                         185,000
November 1, 1986                    190,000
May 1, 1987                         200,000
November 1, 1987                    205,000
May 1, 1988                         210,000
November 1, 1988                    220,000
May 1, 1989                         225,000
November 1, 1989                    230,000
May 1, 1990                         235,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see Loan Regulations, Section 3.03), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿27
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any part
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section
2.05 (b) of the Loan Regulations or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 6.16
of the Loan Regulations:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption       Premialin
Not more than three years before maturity %o
More than three years but not more than
six years before maturity ............. 13/4%7
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity ..........2%
More than eleven years but not more than
sixteen years before maturity .......... 4  Yo
More than sixteen years but not more than
nineteen years before maturity ......... 5%o
More than nineteen years before maturity 6%o


﻿28
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all contracts
for the procurement of goods and services (other than con-
tracts for consultants services for the design and super-
vision of construction of the Ehania palm-oil mill) exceed-
ing U. S. $50,000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding and the following pro-
cedures will be followed:
(a) Individual contracts shall be of a size sufficiently
large so as not to discourage potential bidders or to im-
pede an economical and diligent carrying out of the
Project.
(b) Before inviting tenders the Borrower shall submit
to the Bank for its approval the proposed standard bid in-
vitation documents and a description of tendering pro-
cedures.
(c) Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, with re-
spect to each contract involving an amount exceeding
U. S. $50,000 equivalent the Borrower shall submit to the
Bank for approval prior to awarding the contract the
summary of the bids received, an analysis report and
recommendations, and a justification of the proposal for
awarding the contract.
2. With respect to each contract involving an amount of
U. S. $50,000 equivalent or less the Borrower shall submit
to the Bank at the time the award is made a summary of
bids or quotations, an analysis report and recommenda-
tions, a brief justification for making the award, and as
soon as the contract has been signed the Borrower will
send a copy theerof to the Bank together with a copy of
the Proces-Verbal of the public opening of the tenders.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of Loan Regulations No. 4
For the purpose of this Loan Agreement the provisions
of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the Bank dated February 15,
1961 as amended February 9, 1967 shall be deemed to be
modified as follows:
(1) By the deletion of Section 4.01.
(2) By the deletion of the word "Guarantor" wherever
it appears and the substitution therefor of the words
"Republic of the Ivory Coast".
(3) In Sections 5.06, 6.01, 6.07, 6.12 (b), 6.14, 6.15, 6.17,
6.18, 6.19 and 7.01, Articles VIII and IX, and paragraphs
14 and 17 of Section 10.01 the words " and the Guarantor-
Companies" shall be added after the words "Republic of
the Ivory Coast" (as such words are substituted for the
word "Guarantor" pursuant to (2) above) and the words
i"and the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Proc-
essing Project)" shall be added after the words "Guar-
antee Agreement" wherever they appear. Whenever the
context shall require there shall be made all such gram-
matical changes as shall be consequential upon the afore-
said changes.
(4) By the deletion of Section 7.02 and the substitution
therefor of the following new Section:
" Section 7.02. Obligations of the Republic of the Ivory
Coast. The obligations of the Republic of the Ivory Coast
under the Guarantee Agreement shall not be discharged
except by performance and then only to the extent of
such performance. Such obligations shall not be subject
to any prior notice to, demand upon or action against
the Borrower or PALMIVOIRE or to any prior notice
to, demand upon or action against a Guarantor-Company
with regard to any default by the Borrower or PALMI-
VOIRE or by a Guarantor-Company, and shall not be
impaired by any of the following: any extension of time,


﻿30
forbearance or concession given to the Borrower or
PALMIVOIRE or to a Guarantor-Company; any asser-
tion of, or failure to assert, or delay in aserting, any
right, power or remedy against the Borrower or PALM-
IVOIRE or any of the Guarantor-Companies or in re-
spect of any security for the Loan; any modification or
amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement,
the Guarantee Agreement, the Companies Guarantee
Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) or any docu-
ment related to the Loan contemplated by the respective
terms thereof; any failure of the Borrower or PALM-
IVOIRE to comply with any requirement of any law,
regulation or order of the Republic of the Ivory Coast
or of any political subdivision or agency of the Republic
of the Ivory Coast."
(5) By the deletion of Section 7.04 and the substitution
therefor of the following new Section:
" Section 7.04. Arbitration. (a) Any controversy between
the Bank, on the one side, and any other party or parties
to the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the
Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing
Project), on the other side, and any claim by the Bank
against any such other party or parties or any claim by
any such other party or parties against the Bank arising
under the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement,
the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Process-
ing Project), or the Bonds which shall not be determined
by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitra-
tion by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b) The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank,
on the one side, and the Borrower, the Guarantor and
the Guarantor-Companies, on the other side.
(c) The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitra-
tors appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be ap-
pointed by the Bank; a second arbitrator shall be ap-
pointed by the Borrower, the Republic of the Ivory


﻿31
Coast and the Guarantor-Companies; and the third
arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire)
shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they
shall not agree, by the President of the International
Court of Justice, or, failing appointment by him, by
the Secretary General of the United Nations; provided,
however, that if the Borrower, the Republic of the Ivory
Coast and the Guarantor-Companies shall not agree on
the appointment of a common arbitrator, they shall be
entitled to appoint two arbitrators, as follows: one arbi-
trator shall be appointed by the Borrower and the
Guarantor-Companies or, if they shall not agree, by the
Borrower, and the other arbitrator shall be appointed
by the Republic of the Ivory Coast. In the event that the
Borrower and the Guarantor-Companies, on the one part,
and the Republic of the Ivory Coast, on the other part,
shall so appoint two separate arbitrators, the Bank, on
its part, shall appoint two arbitrators, and the four
arbitrators so appointed shall, together with the Umpire
appointed as provided above, henceforth constitute the
Arbitral Tribunal. If any party shall fail to appoint an
arbitrator as provided above, such arbitrator shall be
appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator ap-
pointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, die
or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be
appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for
the appointment of the original arbitrator and such
successor shall have all the powers and duties of such
original arbitrator."
(6) By the deletion of paragraphs (a) to (1) of Section
5.02 and by substitution therefor of the following new
paragraphs:
"(a) A default shall have occurred in the payment of
principal or interest or any other payment required
under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds.
(b) A default shall have occurred in the payment of prin-
cipal, interest, service charge or any other payment re-


﻿32
quired under any other loan agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower or the Companies Guarantee
Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project), or the Com-
panies Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plan-
tation Project) between the Bank, the Borrower and
PALMIVOIRE, or the Loan Agreement (Industrial Oil
Palm Plantation Project) between the Bank, SODE-
PALM and PALMIVOIRE, or the Loan Agreement (Oil
Palm Outgrowers and Coconut Project) between the
Bank and SODEPALM, or any loan agreement or guar-
antee agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank, or under any bond delivered pursuant to
any such agreement or under any credit agreement be-
tween the Borrower or the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Association.
(c) A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any other covenant or agreement on the part of the
Borrower or PALMIVOIRE or the Republic of the Ivory
Coast or the Guarantor-Companies under the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the Companies
Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) or
the Bonds.
(d) A default shall have occurred in the perforniance of
any covenant or agreement under the Loan Agreement
(Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project) between the
Bank, SODEPALM and PALMIVOIRE or the Guar-
antee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Proj-
ect) between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and the
Bank, or the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Indus-
trial Oil Palm Plantation Project) between the Bank,
the Borrower and PALMIVOIRE other than in respect
of the payment of principal, interest, service charge or
any other payment required thereunder.
(e) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Borrower or PALM-
IVOIRE or the Republic of the Ivory Coast will be able


﻿33
to perform their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement or the Com-
panies Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plan-
tation Project) or the Bonds or that the Guarantor-
Companies will be able to perform their obligations
under the Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil
Processing Project).
(f) The Borrower or PALMIVOIRE or a Guarantor-
Company shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by the Borrower or by others whereby any of the prop-
erty of the Borrower or PALMIVOIRE or a Guarantor-
Company shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(g) The Republic of the Ivory Coast or any other au-
thority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action:
(i) for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Bor-
rower, SODEPALM or PALMI1VOIRE; or (ii) for the
suspension of all or any substantial part of their opera-
tions; or (iii) for the compulsory acquisition of the own-
ership or control of the property and assets of the Bor-
rower or of PALMIVOIRE necessary for the proper
and efficient operation of its business, or for the effective
control of its management.
(h) The Republic of the Ivory Coast shall have been
suspended from membership in or ceased to be a mem-
ber of the Bank.
(i) The Republic of the Ivory Coast shall have ceased to
be a member of the International Monetary Fund or
shall have become ineligible to use the resources of said
Fund under Section 6 of Article IV of the Articles of
Agreement of said Fund or shall have been declared
ineligible to use said resources under Section 5 of Article
V, Section 1 of Article VI or Section 2 (a) of Article XV
of the Articles of Agreement of said Fund.
(j) After the date of the Loan Agreement and prior to
the Effective Date any event shall have occurred which


﻿34
would have entitled the Bank to suspend the Borrower's
right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account if the
Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement and the
Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing
Project) had been effective on the date such event
occurred.
(k) Prior to the Effective Date, any material adverse
change in the condition of the Borrower, PALMIVOIRE,
or SODEPALM, as represented or warranted to the
Bank, shall have occurred.
(1) The Borrower or the Republic of the Ivory Coast or
a Guarantor-Company shall have failed to fulfill an ob-
ligation to make payment of principal, interest, service
charge or any other payment required under the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the Companies
Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) or
the Bonds, or under any other loan agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank, or under the Loan Agree-
ment (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project) between
the Bank, SODEPALM and PALMIVOIRE, the Loan
Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut Project)
between the Bank and SODEPALM, the Companies
Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation
Project) between the Bank, the Borrower and PALM-
IVOIRE or under any loan agreement or guarantee
agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank or under any bond delivered pursuant to any
such agreement or under any credit agreement between
the Borrower or the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Association, notwithstanding the fact that such pay-
ment is made by a third party.
(m) The Caisse Centrale PALMINDUSTRIE Loan, the
EIB Loan or any loan or credit to the Borrower having
an original maturity of one year or more shall have
become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity
pursuant to the terms thereof, or the loan provided under
the First Caisse Central SODEPALM Loan Agreement,


﻿35
the loan provided under the Second Caisse Centrale
SODEPALM Loan Agreement, the FED Pret Special or
any loan or credit to SODEPALM having an original
maturity of one year or more shall have become due and
payable prior to its agreed maturity pursuant to the
terms thereof.
(n) A Guarantor-Company shall, without the prior ap-
proval of the Bank, have taken any action for its termina-
tion, dissolution or winding up or shall have merged into
or consolidated with any corporation (other than with
another Guarantor-Company).
(o) The right of the Borrower to withdraw amounts
under the Caisse Centrale PALMINDUSTRIE Loan
Agreement or the EIB Loan Agreement or any other
agreement providing for a loan or credit having an
original maturity of one year or more, or the right of
SODEPALM to withdraw amounts under the Loan
Agreement (Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut Project)
between the Bank and SODEPALM, the Loan Agree-
ment (Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project) between
the Bank, SODEPALM and PALMIVOIRE, the First
Caisse Centrale SODEPALM Loan Agreement, the Sec-
ond Caisse Centrale SODEPALM Loan Agreement or
the FED Pret Special, or under any other agreement
providing for a loan or credit having an original maturity
of one year or more, shall have been suspended.
(p) The Caisse Centrale PALMINDUSTRIE Loan
Agreement, the EIB Loan Agreement, or any other
agreement providing for a loan having a maturity of
one year or more, shall have been in any material respect
terminated (other than in accordance with the terms
thereof), amended, suspended, waived or assigned with-
out the prior approval of the Bank
(q) The Protocole d'Accord, the PALMINDUSTRIE
Mandat d'Investissement, or the PALMINDUSTRIE
Mandat de Gestion or, the SODEPALM Mandat d'In-


﻿36
vestissement or the SODEPALM Mandat de Gestion
shall have been in any material respect terminated,
amended, suspended, waived or assigned without the
prior approval of the Bank.
(r) The Statuts of the Borrower, PALMIVOIRE or
SODEPALM shall have been amended, suspended or
abrogated without the prior approval of the Bank,.
(s) The Borrower or PALMIVOIRE shall have per-
mitted any sale, transfer or assignment of their B shares
or the Republic of the Ivory Coast shall have repur-
chased the B shares of the Borrower or PALMIVOIRE
without the prior approval of the Bank.
(7) By the deletion of Section 8.02 and by substitution
therefor of the following new Section:
" Section 8.02. The Borrower, PALMIVOIRE and the
Republic of the Ivory Coast and the Guarantor-Coin-
panies shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority of the person or persons who will sign the
applications provided for in Article IV and the Bonds or
who will, on behalf of the Borrower, PALMIVOIRE,
the Republic of the Ivory Coast or the Guarantor-Com-
panies, take any other action or execute any other docu-
ments required or permitted to be taken or executed by
the Borrower or PALMIVOIRE, under the Loan Agree-
ment, or by the Republic of the Ivory Coast, under the
Guarantee Agreement, and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person."
(8) In Sections 9.01, 9.02 (a) (i) and 9.03, after the word
"Borrower" there shall be added the words "and PALM-
IVOIRE".
(9) By the deletion of Section 9.04 and the substitution
therefor of the following new Section :
" Section 9.04. Termination of Guarantee Agreement and
Companies Guarantee Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing
Project) upon Termination of Loan Agreement. If, in ac-


﻿37
cordance with the provisions thereof, the Loan Agree-
ment shall be terminated for failure to become effective,
the Guarantee Agreement and the Companies Guarantee
Agreement (Palm-Oil Processing Project) and all obliga-
tions of the parties thereunder shall also terminate. The
Bank shall promptly give notice of such termination to
the Republic of the Ivory Coast and to the Guarantor
Companies."
(10) By the deletion of Schedule 3 and the substitution
therefor of the following new Schedule:
" SCHEDULE. 3
(a) Fo'rmf Republic of the Ivory Coast Guarantee
Republic of the Ivory Coast, for value received, as a
primary obligor and not as a surety merely, hereby abso-
lutely, unconditionally and independently of any other
guarantee on this Bond, guarantees, and pledges its full
faith and credit for, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of and premium on redemption of the within
Bond and the interest thereon, free from taxes and restric-
tions as therein provided, prior notice to, demand upon or
action against the obligor on said Bond or any other
Guarantor on this Bond or the undersigned being waived.
Republic of the Ivory Coast
By .....    ..................
Authorized Representative
D ated ...............,19...",
(b) "Form of Guarantor-Company's Guarantee
[Name of Company], for value received, as primary ob-
ligor and not as surety merely, hereby absolutely, uncon-
ditionally and independently of any other guarantee on
this Bond, guarantees the due and punctual payment of


﻿38
the principal and premium on redemption of the within
Bond and the interest thereon, free from taxes as therein
provided, prior notice to, demand upon or action against
the obligor on said Bond or any other guarantor or the
undersigned being waived.
[Name of Company] hereby agrees to affix a similar
guarantee on any Bond or Bonds which shall be duly
issued in exchange or substituted for or in replacement
of the within Bond.
[Name of Company]
By .........   ................
Authorized Representative
Dated............,19...


