CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1096 KO
Loan Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 31, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1096 KO
Loan Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 31, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "MOE Project Unit" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education
Project Unit referred to in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
No. 394-KO dated June 13, 1973 between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   "OLA Project Unit" means the organizational unit in the Borrower's
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, Office of Labor Affairs, responsible for
vocational training institutes.
(c) "OSROK" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, Office of Supply.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-two million five hundred thousand dollars
($22,500,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, goods, works and
services (other than consultants' services) for the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 of each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, educational and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Education to implement Parts
A and C of the Projec, and its Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, Office of
Labor Affairs, to impl,ment Part B of the Project.
0


﻿5
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of site
lay-outs and sketch plans for the Project works, the Borrower shall: (i) within
four months of the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower
and the Bank shall agree, select consultants acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) within
eight months of the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower
and the Bank shall agree, appoint such consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause
to be employed contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
on the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire within the period agreed to by the Bank, all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,


﻿6
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) establish in accordance with a time
schedule agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, for each of the
institutions referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, a tracer system acceptable
to the Bank to collect information on the employment status and skill attainment
of the graduates of said institutions; and (ii) furnish annually, a summary analysis
of such information to the Bank for five scheduled consecutive years.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall establish within two years of the date           -
of this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree,
and thereafter carry out an intensive in-service training program in practical work
for the teachers of technical subjects at the new Mechanical Technical School in
Iri.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) within one year of the date of this Agreement
or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, submit to the Bank
for approval a new curriculum for the pre-service training course for teachers of
technical subjects; (ii) within three years of the date of this Agreement or such
other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, implement such curriculum
as approved by the Bank in those industrial education departments of the university
colleges of education at which pre-service courses are offered; and (iii) make
arrangements to provide additional facilities and equipment for the implementation
of said curriculum.
Section 3.09. (a) The MOE Project Unit shall be responsible for the
administration, financial control and liaison with the Bank in regard to the
institutions described in Part A of the Project and the engineering and technical
services described in Part C of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall maintain and operate the MOE Project Unit with
such powers, responsibilities, staff, facilities and resources as set forth in Part A
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall appoint in consultation with the Bank, within one
year of the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower and the
Bank shall agree, at least six additional architectural, engineering and maintenance
staff personnel to the MOE Project Unit.
Section 3.10. (a) The OLA Project Unit shall be responsible for the
administration, financial control and liaison with the Bank in regard to the
vocational training institutes described in Part B of this Project.


﻿I
7
(b)   The Borrower shall maintain and operate the OLA Project Unit with
such powers, responsibilities, staff, facilities and resources as set forth in Part B
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall appoint in consultation with the Bank, within six
months of the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Borrower and
the Bank shall agree, the Assistant Project Director, the Project Architect, the
Project Engineer and the Procurement Officer to the OLA Project Unit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
within nine months of the date of this Agreement or such other date as the
Borrower and the Bank shall agree, for technical assistance to be provided by the
Borrower for Parts A and B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.


﻿8
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain, or cause to be
taken out and maintained with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall operate, or cause to be operated, the
educational institutions and facilities included in the Project in accordance with
appropriate administrative and educational policies and practices and with due
regard to economy.
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times employ, or cause to be employed,
qualified administrators and te :chers in adequate numbers to staff the educational
institutions included in the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) adequately maintain or cause to be
maintained the buildings, furniture and equipment of the educational institutions
included in the Project and make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof in accordance with appropriate technical and administrative
practices; and (ii) provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 5, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister, Economic Planning Board of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul
Korea
Cable address:
0
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s / Yoon Sae Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿F:.                                11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Parts A and C of the Project
1.   Civil Works (in-                1,700,000          30%
cluding profes-
sional fees)
2.    Furniture                        160,000           30%
*        3.   instructional                   6,340,000
equipment
(a)   directly im-                                 100% of foreign
ported                                       expenditures
(c.i.f.)
(b)   manufactured                                 100% of local ex-
locally                                      penditures (ex-
factory)
(c)  imported and                                  70% (ex-warehouse
procured                                     or ex-store)
locally
4.    Engineering and                  500,000           90%
technical services
5.    Unallocated                    2,700,000
II.   Part B of the Project
1.   Civil Works (in-                2,300,000          30%
cluding piofes-
sional fees)


﻿12
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              %of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
2.    Furniture                        140,000          30%
3.    Instructional                  5,960,000
equipment
(a)   directly im-                                 100% of foreign
ported                                       expenditures
(c.i.f.)
(b)   manufactured                                 100% of local ex-
locally                                      penditures (ex-
factory)
(c)  imported and                                  70% (ex-warehouse
procured                                     or ex-store)
locally
4.    Unallocated                    2,700,000
TOTAL         22,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or oupply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.


﻿13
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of th. Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to meet the Borrower's manpower requirements for
specific economic and geographic sectors, and improve the quality of instruction
and system of training in the Borrower's educational institutions.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Site development, construction, and improvement of existing facilities at,
and furniture and equipment for, the following institutions:
Location           Province/City
Mechanical Technical School
IRI                JEON BUG
Agricultural Junior Colleges
YESAN              CHUNG NAM
SANG JU            GYEONG BUG
SUNCHEON           JEON NAM
Fisheries College
BUSAN              BUSAN
Fisheries High Schools
GEOJE              GYEONG NAM
JUMUNJIN           GANG WEON
POHANG             GYEONG BUG
Marine Junior College
MOGPO              JEON NAM
B.    Site development, construction of new facilities, and furnishing and equipping
of:
Vocational Training Institutes
CHANG WEON         GYEONG NAM
CHEONGJU           CHUNG BUG
CHUNGMU            GYEONG NAM
GUMI               GYEONG BUG
JEONJU             JEON BUG
POHANG             GYEONG BUG
SUNCHEON           JEON NAM


﻿15
C.    Engineering and technical services for the preparation of future education
projects.
Specific locations of the educational institutions listed above shall be subject
to modification by further agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1982                                           0
March 15, 1983                                           z65,0
September 15, 1983                                       300,000
March 15, 1984                                           310,000
September 15, 1984                                       325,000
March 15, 1985                                           340,000
September 15, 1985                                       350,000
March 15, 1986                                           370,000
September 15, 1986                                       385,000
March 15, 1987                                           400,000
September 15, 1987                                       415,000
March 15, 1988                                           435,0
September 15, 1988                                       455,000
March 15, 1989                                           470,000
September 15, 1989                                       495,000
March 15, 1990                                           51500
September 15, 1990                                       535,000
March 15, 1991                                           555,0
September 15, 1991                                       585,000
March 15, 1992                                           605,0
September 15, 1992                                       635,000
March 15, 1993                                           660,000
September 15, 1993                                       685,000
March 15, 1994                                           715,000
September 15, 1994                                       750,0
March 15, 1995                                           780,00
September 15, 1995                                       810,00
March 15, 1996                                           845,000
September 15, 1996                                       885,000
March 15, 1997                                           920,000
September 15, 1997                                       960,000
March 15, 1998                                           995,000
September 15, 1998                                      1,045,000
March 15, 1999                                          1,085,0
September 15, 1999                                      1,135,000
March 15,5 2000                                         1,190,000
  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.
&5,00


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three
years before
maturity                                           1%
More than three years
but not more than
six years before
maturity                                        2-1/4%
More than six years
but not more than
eleven years
before maturity                                    4%
More than eleven years
but not more than
sixteen years
before maturity                                 5-1/2%
More than sixteen years
but not more than
twenty-one years
before maturity                                 7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                                    8%
More than twenty-three
years before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    Procedures
1.    General.
(a)   Except as provided in Parts A.2(f) and A.3 hereof, contracts shall be
let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
(b)   If a contract shall be awarded over the Bank's reasonable objection,
or if its terms and conditions materially differ from those on which bids were
asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(c)   As soon as a contract has been awarded and before the submission
of the first application for withdrawal in respect of such contract, the Borrower
shall send a certified copy thereof to the Bank and, in cases where information
on bids has not previously been so communicated, the Borrower shall at the same
time also send a summary analysis of the bids received and a justification for the
award decision, together with a certificate signed by the Borrower's Ministry of
Education or Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, Office of Labor Affairs, as
appropriate, that the goods covered by the lowest evaluated bid and the contract
awarded conform in specification and quantity to the list approved by the Bank.
2.    Furniture and equipment.
(a) Furniture and equipment items included in the Project shall be groupca
so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate
technical and procurement practices.
(b)   Before inviting bids the Borrower shall forward to the Bank for its
approval:
(i)         lists of all furniture and equipment items required for the
Project, incorporating specifications, estimated unit and total
prices for each item, coded to identify institutions and locations
for which items are required, and indicating the grouping of


﻿19
items proposed in order to permit bulk procurement, as shall
be consistent with  appropriate technical and procurement
practices; and
(ii)        a description  of the advertising procedures proposed for
obtaining bids together with draft bid invitations, draft bid
documents and draft contracts.
(c)   Modifications to such furniture and equipment lists made subsequent
to the Bank's approval of which the unit price does not exceed the equivalent
of $5,000 or the cost of which in aggregate does not exceed 10% of the total
proceeds of the Loan allocated to furniture and equipment and which are in
accordance with appropriate educational practices, may be made without the prior
approval of the Bank. All other amendments of the lists should be submitted to
the Bank for approval.
(d)   Financing out of the proceeds of the Loan will be limited to those
items of furniture and equipment specified in the approved lists mentioned in
paragraph 2(b)(i) above except as such lists are modified in accordance with
paragraph 2(c) above and identified in contract documents by the same codes and
numbers as in the lists.
(e)   After bids for furniture and equipment have been received and
evaluated:
(i)        in the case of any contract of $50,000 or higher value, or where
it is proposed to award a contract to other than the lowest
evaluated bidder, the Borrower shall obtain the Bank's approval
before making an award, and to this end shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a summary and analysis
of the bids received, together with the justification (with due
regard to conformity with specifications and to price) of the
proposed award. The Bank shall promptly inform the Borrower
whether it approves the proposed award or has any objections
to it and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have;
and
(ii)       in all other cases, the Borrower may defer submission of bid
analyses and justifications to the Bank until after contracts have
been awarded.
(f)   Contracts for furniture and equipment not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000 with unit prices of less than $5,000 each shall be awarded in accordance


﻿20
with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures following domestic advertising
as modified after consultation with the Bank, provided that the aggregate
expenditure for items as procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,800,000.
3.    Civil works.
Contracts for civil works shall be awarded in accordance with the Borrower s
competitive bidding procedures following domestic advertising modified as follows:
(i) civil works included in the Project shall be grouped to form appropriate bid
packages, where practicable; (ii) all bidders shall be required to prequalify; and
(iii) contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder determined in
accordance with procedures similar to those set forth in Section 4.7 of the
Guidelines, after comparison of all responsive bids, without reference to the
estimated cost of the contract except in the circumstances referred to under Section
4.9 of the Guidelines.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Republic of Korea may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Republic of Korea
if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Republic of Korea equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿21
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Republic
of Korea.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sa':s or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison orly, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of prequalification:
The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail
of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, and contracts for furniture and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other


﻿22
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders, except as provided in paragraph A.2(c) above.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall inform the Borrower of the approval of the intended award,
or if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 5
Project Units
A.    MOE Project Unit
1.   The MOE Project Unit will be responsible for the financial and administrative
control of Parts A and C of the Project and its proper execution, including, inter
alia:
(a)   coordination among the Borrower's ministries and agencies concerned
with Parts A and C of the Project;
(b)   liaison with the Bank;
(c)   preparation of a comprehensive implementation schedule for Parts A
and C of the Project;
(d)   maintenance of records, including financial records, and the furnishing
of information under Section 3.05(b) of this Agreement during the carrying out
of Parts A and C of the Project;
(e)   preparation of applications for withdrawal from the Loan Account;
(f)   evaluation of progress in implementing Parts A and C of the Project
and the preparation of presentation of regular reports to the Bank;
(g)   briefing, coordination and supervision of the consultant architects
retained by the Borrower for the physical development of Part A of the Project,
including establishing the terms of reference for the design and supervision of the
Project items financed under the Project, administering their agreements and
reviewing and approving their work;
(h)   preparation of master lists of furniture and instructional equipment;
(i)   taking, in collaboration with OSROK, all necessary steps to assure
bidding according to the usual governmental procedures for civil works and for
the procurement of furniture and equipment as modified by Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and to assure international competitive bidding for appropriate items,
including the preparation of bidding and contract documents, the evaluation of
bids and the making of recommendations regarding the award of contracts;


﻿24
(j)   supervision of construction and procurement and supervision and
coordination of installation procedures for furniture and equipment and regular
inspection of construction work; and
(k)   coordination and supervision of Part C of the Project.
2.    The MOE Project Unit shall retain the following staff: a Project Director,
a full-time Assistant Project Director, a Chief Project Architect, three Project
Architects, five Project Engineers, a Chief Procurement Officer, ten Procurement
Specialists and a Specialist Advisory Committee. Additional staff shall be appointed
in accordance with Section 3.09(c) of this Agreement.
3.    The specific responsibilities and functions of the Project Director, the
Assistant Project Director and Specialist Advisory Committee shall be respectively
as follows:
(a)   Project Director: over-all guidance, supervision and execution of
Parts A and C of the Project including all such arrangements with the Borrower's
ministries and agencies as shall be necessary for Project implementation;
(b)   Assistant Project Director: assistance in over-all guidance, supervision
and execution of Part A and C of the Project and operation, coordination and
supervision of the MOE Project Unit; and
(c)   Specialist Advisory Committee: guidance, coordination and supervision
of the preparation of equipment lists for the institutions referred to in Part A
oi the Project.
B.    OLA Project Unit
1.    The OLA Project Unit will be responsible for the financial and administrative
control of Part B of the Project and its proper execution, including, inter alia:
(a)   coordination among the Borrower's ministries or agencies concerned
with Part B of the Project;
(b)   liaison with the Bank;
(c)   preparation of a comprehensive implementation schedule for Part B
of the Project;
(d)   maintenance of records, including financial records, and the furnishing
of information under Section 3.05(b) of this Agreement during the carrying out
of Part B of the Project;


﻿25
(e)   preparation of applications for withdrawal from the Loan Account;
(f)   evaluation of progress in implementing Part B of the Project and the
preparation and presentation of regular reports to the Bank;
(g)   briefing, coordination, and supervision of the consultant architects
retained by the Borrower for the physical development of Part B of the Project,
including establishing the terms of reference for the design and supervision of the
Project items financed under the Project, administering their agreements and
reviewing and approving their work;
(h)   preparation of master lists of furniture and instructional equipment;
(i)   taking, in collaboration with OSROK, all necessary steps to assure
bidding according to the usual governmental procedures for civil works and for
the procurement of furniture and equipment as modified by Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and to assure international competitive bidding for appropriate items,
including the preparation of bidding and contract documents, the evaluation of
bids and the making of recommendations regarding the award of contracts; and
(j)   supervision of construction and procurement and supervision and
coordination of installation procedures for furniture and equipment and regular
inspection of construction work.
2.    The OLA Project Unit shall consist of a Project Director, a full-time Assistant
Project Di -ector, a Project Architect, a Project Engineer and a Procurement Officer.
3.    The specific responsibilities and functions of the Project Director and the
Assistant Project Director shall be respectively as follows:
(a)   Project Director: over-all guidance, supervision and execution of Part
B of the Project including all such arrangements with the Borrower's ministries
and agencies as shall be necessary for Project implementation; and
(b)   Assistant Project Director: assistance in over-all guidance, supervision
and execution of Part B of the Project and operation, coordination and supervision
of the OLA Project Unit.
0


