Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18472-YEM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
January 8, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$1.00   YR 135.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                                  Country Assistance Strategy
DCA                                  Development Credit Agreement
EMP                          =       Environmental Management Plan
ERR                                  Economic Rate of Return
GOY                                  Government of Yemen
ICB                                  International Competitive Bidding
IDA                                  International Development Association
IMF                          =       International.Monetary Fund
LACI                                 Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOP                                  Manual of Procedures
MOPD                                 Ministry of Planning and Development
N.A.                         =       Not Applicable/Not Available
NCB                                  National Competitive Bidding
PWP-2                        =       Second Public Works Project
NGO                                  Non-Governmental Organization
NS                                   National Shopping
PAD                          =       Project Appraisal Document
PMR                                  Project Management Report
PMU                                  Project Management Unit
PWP                                  Public Works Project
SA                                   Special Account
SC                                   Steering Committee
SOE                                  Statement of Expenditures
SSR                          =       Staff Service Rules
WP                                   Work Program
Vice President: Kemal Dervi,
Country Director: Inder K. Sud
Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader: Amir Al-Khafaji



Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives                                                 2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators          2
B. Strategic Context                                                              2
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project                      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      3
C. Project Description Summary                                                    4
1. Project components                                                     4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project           5
3. Benefits and target population                                          5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                           6
D. Project Rationale                                                              9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection              9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank, IDA, and/or
other development agencies                                              10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                        11
5. Value added of IDA support in this project                              I1
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                       12
1. Economic                                                                12
2. Financial                                                               12
3. Technical                                                               13
4. Institutional                                                           14
5. Social                                                                  14
6. Environmental assessment                                                14
7. Participatory approach                                                  15
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                       15
1. Sustainability                                                          15
2. Critical risks                                                          16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                          16



G. Main Credit Conditions                                                      16
1. Effectiveness conditions                                             16
2. Other conditions                                                     16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                17
I. Compliance with IDA Policies                                                17
Annexes
Annex I       Project Design Summary                                           18
Annex lA      Distribution of Investment by Governorates                       20
Annex IB      Subproject Selection Criteria                                    21
Annex 2       Project Description                                              22
Annex 3       Estimated Project Costs                                          23
Annex 4       Economic Analysis                                                24
Annex 5       Financial Summary                                                28
Annex 6       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                        29
Table A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                        30
Table B     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review              31
Table C     Allocation of Credit Proceeds                                    31
Table D     Disbursement Categories and Percentages Financed                 32
Annex 7       Mid-term Review - Analysis of Experience/Results                 39
Annex 8       Beneficiary Impact Assessment - Executive Summary                43
Annex 9       Summary of Environmental Aspects - Environmental Management Plan    49
Annex 10      Project Processing Budget and Schedule                           56
Annex I I     Documents in Project File                                        57
Annex 12      Statement of Loans and Credits                                   58
Annex 13      Country at a Glance                                              60
Map           IBRD No. 29963



International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Intemational Development Association
Middle East and North Africa Region
Infrastructure Development Group
Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Date: January 8, 1999
Country Director: Inder K. Sud            Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: RY-PE 60132                  Team Leader: Amir Al-Khafaji
Sector: Infrastructure                   Program Objective Category: Infrastructure
Lending Instrument: IDA Credit           Program of Targeted Intervention:       [X]  Yes    t ]  No
Project Financing Data                [  Loan       [X] Credit       [3 Guarantee      Other [Specify3
For Credits:
Amount (US$ million): IDA Credit of US$50.0
Proposed terms:                        [X]  Multi-currency     []  Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 10          [1   Standard Variable  []  Fixed
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
On-lending arrangements: N.A.
Financing plan: US$60 million
Source                              Local             Foreign            Total
Govemment                                                   6.0                --                6.0
Cofinanciers (parallel cofinancing expected following 1999
donors' conference)
IDA                                                        43.5                6.5              50.0
Other: Community Participation                              4.0                --                4.0
Total       53.5                 6.5             60.0
Borrower:                   Government of Yemen
Implementing Agency(ies):    Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD)
Steering Committee - Project Management Unit (PMU)
Estimnated disbursements (IDA FY/US$m).                1999       2000       2001      2002       2003
Annual                  4.0        14.0       14.0      14.0       4.0
Cumulative                 4.0        18.0       32.0       46.0      50.0
Project implementation period: 4 years: 1999-2003
Expected effectiveness date: March 1, 1999                        Expected closing date: June 30, 2003



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                          Page 2
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed Second Public Works Project (PWP-2) is an extension of the ongoing Public Works Project
(PWP- Credit No. 2878), with similar but more sharpened development objectives and indicators (also
see Annex 8, Beneficiary Impact Assessment).
The project's overall development objective is to help mitigate the adverse effects of economic adjustment
through poverty alleviation measures targeted to the country's poor communities. These measures are the
(a) creation of jobs; and (b) provision of needed infrastructure to improve services and environmental
conditions (particularly those affecting women and children). The project also seeks to ensure the
sustainability of these measures through: (a) community involvement in project selection, preparation, and
implementation; and (b) the development of local contracting and consulting firms.
Indicators used to.measure performance in attaining this objective include the number of: (a) job person-
months created; (b) infrastructure projects completed; (c) women and children who benefit from project-
created infrastructure; and (d) contracting and consulting firms employed and supervisors trained.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS Document number: 15286. Date of latest CAS discussion: February 19, 1996. Latest progress report:
November 4, 1997.
The PWP-2 is consistent with the latest CAS for Yemen and can be considered a comerstone project in
IDA's support to the country. The CAS focuses on three themes: (a) supporting stabilization, structural
reforms, and social protection measures; (b) improving portfolio implementation and sustainability of past
and future investments; and (c) promoting sustainable natural and human resource development. The
proposed project directly supports the first of these (particularly social protection) through the targeting of
employment opportunities to low-income areas. Specific reference is made in the CAS to efforts such as
the proposed PWP-2, which would implement "...civil works programs to provide income-producing
employment to unskilled labor while upgrading or rehabilitating the infrastructure and social services.
The works to be financed... would be relatively small, labor-intensive, and located in poorer urban areas"
(pg. 5, para. 18). The project also seeks to ensure the sustainability of these measures through community
involvement in project selection, preparation, and implementation; and in subsequent operation of
completed works.
The project would also serve as a catalyst to attract donors to provide concessional financing, and would
support plans to hold a donors' conference in early 1999.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Throughout the early and mid- 1 990s, the country went through a series of dislocations and disturbances
that resulted in large budget deficits, high inflation, declining real incomes, and widespread
unemployment. In response, the Govemment has been implementing, since 1995, an economy-wide
reform program designed to stabilize the economy and stimulate sustainable growth. The stabilization
program has been successful, with core inflation dropping from about 65 percent in 1994 to around 12



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                             Page 3
percent in 1996, and to only 6 percent in 1997. Significant structural reforms were also implemented.
Actions included lowering tariffs and other barriers to trade; moving from a multiple to a single, market-
determined exchange rate; moving to eliminate price controls; reducing regulations, licensing
requirements, and other barriers to entry for new firms; and cutting subsidies to public enterprises.
However, the Government has been disappointed that the expected pay-offs in terms of employment,
income growth, and better public services have not materialized to the desired extent. A main reason may
be that weak public administration in Yemen does not allow the Government to play the requisite role in
supporting these efforts. In response, measures are now being undertaken to strengthen key aspects of
public sector management.
From the beginning of the stabilization program, the Government has sought to mitigate the short-term
effects of the adjustment program on the country's most vulnerable population by undertaking to provide a
limited social safety net and create jobs. IDA has supported the Government's strategy through two
projects. The first, the PWP, aimed to create jobs, supply basic infrastructure in poor urban locations, and
establish a project management structure for identifying and carrying out subprojects in target areas. The
second was the Social Fund for Development Project (CR 41199-YEM), which promoted small social
projects and partnerships with NGOs. Both IDA projects have largely met their development objectives
and the PWP-2 is designed to be a follow-on project to the PWP. The PWP-2 would, therefore, build on
the experience and momentum of the PWP while at the same time laying a more consistent foundation for
local governments and communities to maintain and sustain investments made under the project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The PWP-2 is multi-sectoral and deals with general issues of relevance to all sectors. It will focus on:
Creation of iobs. Through the financing of small, labor-intensive infrastructure extension and
rehabilitation projects in poor areas, the PWP-2 will create jobs and help to alleviate poverty in target
areas.
Support for small-scale contractors and consultants. Private sector participation would be encouraged
and initiated through the use of small-scale consulting and contracting industries. PWP succeeded in
involving small contractors and consultants in the execution of every subproject, and PWP-2 aims to
strengthen their capacity by providing the necessary training and workshops.
Sustainability of subnroiects. The PWP provided physical and social infrastructure and services aimed at
improving the living conditions of the poorest communities. PWP-2 would continue these activities with
added focus on the long-term maintenance and sustainability of the infrastructure facilities to be built by
making sustainability an important criterion for the selection of subprojects.
Community participation. Under the PWP, the commitment and support of the community proved to be
important for project success. However, community involvement in providing services, as well as in
operation and maintenance of rehabilitated and new infrastructure facilities, needs to be developed further.
This would be achieved by involving local governments and communities in the design and
implementation of subprojects and by giving greater weight to such participation in the selection of
subprojects.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                                    Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The PWP-2 would consist of about 900 subprojects for the rehabilitation and/or extension of
infrastructure works throughout the 20 governorates of Yemen. The subprojects would range in size
between US$30,000 to US$200,000 and would average about US$60.000.
Indicative           IDA        % of
costs     % of   financing    IDA
component                        Category    (USsm)    Total   (US$m)   financing
Community Infrastructure. Small-scale civil works in areas  Physical  53.0    88       43.0       81
with above-average unemploy-ment rates for construction,
rehabilitation, and/or extension of infrastructure works.
Technical Assistance. Technical assistance and consultant  Institution  4.0    7        4.0       100
services for project preparation and implementation.  building
Project Management. The Steering Committee and the Project  Institution  3.0   5        3.0       100
Management Unit would handle this.                   building    _
Tota                                          60.0  lo0         50. 0
Parallel cofinancin2 pro2ram. The Ministry of Planning and Development has discussed potential co-
financing arrangements with the Islamic Bank, Arab Fund, and German and Dutch aid, with generally
positive responses. These opportunities will be further pursued and donors' meetings are proposed to be
held in early 1999. The IDA will provide any required assistance in these matters.
The capacity of the Project Management Unit (PMU) to manage subproject execution could be expanded
and adjusted to the availability of funds. Currently, its capacity is in the range of US$1.2-1.5 million per
month, which could readily be increased by 50 percent, to an annual output of US$25-30 million. This
would require some strengthening of the PMU staff, particularly in field offices. Investments totaling
US$100-120 million could be implemented by the PMU within 4-5 years, providing ample scope to
accommodate additional donor financing.
Subproiect selection criteria. Selection of subprojects would be performed via a two step process. First,
50 percent of the funds available for civil works plus engineering consultants (US$57.0 million) would be
distributed among the governorates, using population criteria. An additional 30 percent of the amount
would then be assigned to each govemorate according to the percentage of the poor estimated to be in
each govemorate. A variety of measures would be used to determine the distribution of the poor, including
IDA's latest Poverty Assessment and the Government's latest population survey, as well as consultations
with personnel from IDA's Social Fund Project. Finally, the remaining 20 percent of available funds
would be distributed to the governorates to alleviate particular hardships and to include more remote areas
that need basic infrastructure. A preliminary distribution by governorate is shown in Annex IA.
Once the distribution by govemorate is completed, a set of seven selection and four rejection criteria
would be used to screen subprojects and thereby help to ensure that only the most cost-effective
investments are funded. These criteria, shown in Annex IB, represent slight modifications of the selection
criteria developed under the PWP. As shown in Annex 1B, higher scores are given under the PWP-2 for



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                          Page 5
both Investment Cost per Person-month and Community Participation. This should result in higher priority
being given to those subprojects that better address the PWP-2's development objectives of: (a) mitigating
the adverse effects of economic adjustment measures, and (b) enhancing subproject sustainability. The
remaining criteria are: Subproject Labor Content, the expected Poverty Alleviation effect of the
subproject (see discussion below), the expected Investment Cost per Beneficiary, Improvements to the
Environment, and Sustainability once the subproject is completed.
Subprojects would be rejected when they: (a) cannot provide at least five percent participation by the
community; (b) create a person-month of labor for more than $500 (except for water and wastewater
subprojects; see Section E. 1 for the exception rationale); (c) do not meet the minimum environmental
criteria; and (d) have no plan for sustainability once the subproject is completed. Rejection criteria are
based largely on experience of the 400 subprojects completed under the PWP.
Gauging the expected poverty impact of subprojects is necessarily a subjective exercise, given the lack of
detailed data. However, the consistency of scoring would be accomplished by training the six or eight
evaluators who would score each potential subproject. Evaluators would be asked to evaluate the
subproject and assign one of three scores based on such factors as the observed condition of the
community, existing basic infrastructure, observed and reported unemployment, observed and reported
estimates of household income, and similar measures yet to be determined.
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The PWP-2 would support the Government's ongoing policy reformns to alleviate poverty and improve
living conditions in poor areas. This would be achieved by targeting investments to poor communities and
by emphasizing provision of small, cost-effective infrastructure services. Information on poverty has been
obtained from the Government of Yemen's Yearly Statistical Book of 1996 (Department of Statistics in
the Ministry of Planning and Development) and the World Bank's 1997 Poverty Assessment for Yemen,
to facilitate the identification of poverty pockets within govemorates.
3. Benefits and target population:
The major project benefit would be the creation of job opportunities. An analysis of subprojects executed
under the PWP shows that the labor content varied among subprojects but averaged about 28 percent of
total contract costs. The labor content would go up with increased community participation, which would
be further emphasized under the PWP-2. For proposed investments in community infrastructure of about
US$49 million, this would correspond to about 95,000 person-months of employment at an average cost
of about US$515 per person-month. In addition, it is estimated that jobs to be created indirectly, under
various activities serving the construction industry, would correspond to about 40 percent of those created
directly. Although it has not been possible to analyze to what extent job creation under PWP has directly
benefited the poverty groups, it is assumed to be significant, since about 55 percent of jobs created were
for unskilled people. The poverty focus is expected to increase under the PWP-2 with the better targeting
of subprojects.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                          Page 6
Apart from job creation, subprojects would provide additional benefits related to improved infrastructure
services, protection of the environment, and health and education facilities, which together would result in
improved conditions for overall economic development.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing aeencv. For project implementation, the PWP-2 would adopt the existing setup of the PWP,
which has performed exceptionally well. This is attributed to the competence and dedication of the PMU
staff, the constructive support provided by the Steering Committee (SC), and the streamlined operational
procedures adopted for the project.
The PMU operates under a Steering Committee' (SC), composed of six representatives from the
Government and three non-Government representatives, and chaired by the Minister of Planning and
Development (MOPD). The duties and functions of the SC include: (a) approval of subproject selection
criteria, Staff Service Rules (SSR), and the Manual of Procedures (MOP); (b) sanction and termination of
contracts for senior Project Management Unit staff, including the Project Director; (c) determination of
compensation for PMU staff; (d) approval of annual budgets for operation of the PMU, and of quarterly
investment programs; (e) review of quarterly and annual progress reports and of the performance of the
PMU; (f) approval of contracts exceeding US$200,000; and (f) appointment of auditors and review of
auditors' reports. During negotiations, the Government agreed that no changes would be made in the
membership of the Steering Committee or its terms of reference without prior consultation with the IDA.
The PMU serves as the Secretariat of the SC and is headed by the Project Director, who is assisted by five
managers: Financial and Administrative Manager (at present acting), Management Information System
(MIS) Manager, Investment Manager, and two Area Managers. For operational purposes, the country has
been divided between the two Area Managers who oversee six local offices headed by Sub-area
Managers; under the PWP-2 there would be eight local offices. The PMU also includes staff specialized in
procurement; specialists in community participation would be added. The employment of PMU staff is
governed by the SSR, which covers, inter alia, rules for remuneration, conflict of interest, staff
performance assessment, and replacement of non-performing staff. During appraisal, the Government and
the Bank agreed on a time-bound proposal for recruiting additionally needed staff, including a Financial
and Administrative Manager. The SSR also governs the appointment of training and environmental
consultants for specific assignments. During negotiations, the Government agreed to maintain adequate
PMU staff and to consult with IDA prior to making any key appointments or replacements. -
The duties and functions of the PMU include: (a) providing assistance to local governments in preparing
priority investment programs, including subprojects based on established selection criteria; (b) appointing
consultants and NGOs for specific assignments, including engineering and construction supervision, and
for works involving community participation; (c) entering into contracts for goods and civil works with a
value of less than US$200,000; (d) carrying out annual reviews, with adjustments to be made in work
approach and procedures on the basis of experience gained; (e) coordination with Government and non-
Government authorities and financing agencies; (f) revising and updating the SSR and the MOP as
needed; (g) entering into and terminating contracts with support staff; and (h) building the capacity of
local consulting and construction firms and NGOs, and enhancing community participation.
The Steering Committee consists of the Minister of Planning and Development; Minister of Local
Administration; Minister of Construction, Housing, and Urban Planning; Minister of Social and Local Affairs;
Director of the Prime Minister's Office; Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Planning and Development; and three non-
Government members, two of whom represent NGOs.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                        Page 7
Procurement. The project would require the procurement of goods, civil works and services needed to
execute the subprojects and operate the PMU. Civil works contracts, amounting to about US$49 million,
would include mainly construction and rehabilitation of facilities under various subprojects. Based on
experience from the ongoing PWP, it is expected that about 60 percent of such contracts would be below
US$50,000 each, about 30 percent would be in the range of US$50.000 to US$100,000 each, and the
remaining 10 percent would be in the range of US$100,000 to US$200,000 each. In exceptional cases, the
contract amount may exceed USS200,000, for which the PMU would be required to get prior approval of
IDA. In view of the small size of the civil works contracts and their scattered location throughout Yemen,
all such contracts would be procured using National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) as defined in
the Bank's procurement guidelines: Procurement Unider IBRD Loanis and IDA Credits, January 1995,
revised January and August 1996 and September 1997. Contracts valued below $20,000 could be procured
with community participation and local procedures, which were reviewed and agreed to by IDA during
appraisal.
Contracts for goods (equipment, computers, fumiture, vehicles, etc.) to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000 may be awarded under National Shopping (NS) procedures as specified in the guidelines.
Consulting services would be required for: (a) preparing, designing, and supervising construction of
subprojects; and (b) technical assistance and training by local and/or foreign consultants under short-term
assignments. All consulting services would be procured under the Bank's consultant guidelines: Selection
anid Employment of Consultants by, World Banik/IDA Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997.
The procurement administration capacity of the PMU was reviewed during appraisal and found to be
satisfactory. An experienced procurement officer is on board and a number of the PMU staff have
received procurement training in Sana'a and abroad. Under the ongoing PWP, the PMU has successfully
completed contractual arrangements for about 400 contracts in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines.
Proiect implementation. The PWP-2 would consist of a number of subprojects in different sectors,
which have been or will be identified at the community or local government level in cooperation with
NGOs, sector ministries, the Govemor's office, and the PMU. At present, about 4,000 subprojects
(corresponding to about US$200 million) have been submitted to the PMU for evaluation and financing.
Through visits to communities, the PMU would review and update already submitted subprojects, assess
potential new subprojects, and discuss investment priorities. Based on this review, the PMU would
evaluate and prioritize such subprojects according to selection criteria agreed upon during appraisal, and
group them into quarterly investment programs, which would cost an estimated US$3-5 million and be
executed during a 6 to 12-month period. Annual investment programs would be prepared for planning
purposes and for the projection of funding requirements; the program for 1999 will be submitted to the SC
and the IDA for review and approval before December 15, 1998. In preparing the investment programs,
lessons from the execution of earlier subprojects and annual performance/progress reviews would be
applied as appropriate. Investment programs would be subject to review and approval by the SC and IDA.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to submit annual and quarterly investment programs to the
SC and IDA for review and approval.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                         Paee 8
The competence and capacity of local consulting firms have been developed under the PWP, and this is
expected to improve under the PWP-2 through training provided by the PMU. For the PWP, no foreign
consultant involvement has been required, and this is also expected to be the case for the PWP-2.
Proiect monitorine. Performance monitoring of the PWP-2 would include: (a) the performance
indicators as shown in Annex 1; (b) the results of social impact assessments; (c) compliance with remedial
actions to be taken for environmental improvement; (d) the variation of unit costs under civil works
contracts; (e) progress in preparation of investment programs and in the execution of civil works
contracts; and (f) the implementation of workplans on community participation. The PMU has established
a database on unit costs for different works, which has enabled a comparison among subprojects and a
refinement of cost estimates. The SC and IDA would monitor the progress under the PWP-2 on a quarterly
basis, using information obtained from quarterly reports prepared by the PMU.
IDA has carried out annual reviews of PWP (1998 annual review is available in the project file and
summarized in Annex 7), and the findings and recommendations were discussed with the SC and the
PMU. During negotiations, the Government agreed that: (a) quarterly progress reports should be
submitted to IDA for review within 45 days after the end of the reporting period; and (b) annual
perfonnance reviews would take place each year during January/February, with recommendations to be
approved by the SC within one month.
Project supervision. Although individual subprojects would be relatively simple from a technical
viewpoint, the large number of subprojects and their countrywide distribution would make overall
implementation complex.  Moreover, the evaluation of subprojects, with preparation of quarterly
investment programs, would be a continuous process during project implementation. Under the PWP, the
main responsibility for supervision was delegated to the Resident Mission (RM), with support provided by
Headquarters as needed. The establishment of a well-functioning PMU was a major task under the PWP,
and with this in place the supervision efforts under the PWP-2 would be less demanding although still
substantial. Present project supervision arrangements would be maintained, with Headquarters staff to be
involved, particularly, in annual reviews. These reviews would include the performance of the PMU; post
review of compliance with procurement, disbursement, and environmental procedures, and social impact
assessments. The RM would thus perform routine supervision and be available to PMU for any assistance
it may need, and would seek the Headquarters advice as required. The total input would be an estimated
90 staff weeks, to be divided between the RM and Headquarters in the approximate proportions 80:20.
The supervision inputs would be about equally divided over the years of project implementation.
Accounting, financial reportin2, and auditin2 arran2ements. The PMU would continue to keep
separate accounts for the operation of the PMU, for the use of consultant services, for civil works and
other contracts, and for the Project Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The PMU
has installed appropriate accounting/budgetary and management information systems, and it has for each
year of project implementation prepared a budget for its operational costs. Compliance with audit
covenants has been fully satisfactory. Under PWP-2, the accounting, financial, and management
information systems would be extended to the field offices of the PMU to permit easy access and updating
of data in a decentralized fashion.
The PWP-2 would continue to be subject to quarterly and annual audits by independent auditors in
accordance with internationally accepted standards. The audits would complement the annual
performance reviews, which would determine the applicability of working procedures (as detailed in the
MOP and SSR) and assess the overall performance of the PMU. During negotiations, the Government
agreed that auditor(s) acceptable to IDA would be maintained for the entire project period; annual audit



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                          Page 9
reports would be submitted within 6 months from the end of the reporting period; quarterly interim audit
reports would be submitted within 45 days following each quarter; and the audit reports would include
separate statements for the Special Account and SOEs.
Financial Management System (FMS). The Project financial management arrangements are detailed in
Annex 6. A Financial Management Manual that documents the operation of the project FMS has been
prepared. The Manual covers the following aspects: (i) flow of funds; (ii) financial and accounting
policies; (iii) accounting system and internal control mechanisms; (iv) Chart of Accounts; (v) financial
reporting (including formats of financial management reports); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii)
budgeting; and (viii) organization and staffing for financial management functions. Key actions which are
in process, and which need to be completed are: (i) completion of enhancement of the financial
management system, including finalization and adoption of the Financial Management Manual (in English
and Arabic), and upgrading the computerized FMS, by January 30, 1999; (ii) appointment of a firm of
Certified Public Accountants as auditors for the project, by March 31, 1999; and (iii) recruitment by PMU
of a key financial professional, a Financial Manager and a junior level accountant, by March 31, 1999.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system (reimbursements
with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and direct payments) and would
be converted to the new procedures (i.e., based on PMRs) after the key professional financial staff and the
junior level staff have been appointed and the FMS is operating satisfactorily. A simplified disbursement
of funds would be carried out largely through periodic advances to the Special Account based on Project
Management Reports (PMRs). These reports link eligible expenditures with actual physical progress made
under the project. To facilitate disbursements, the Govemment would establish at the Central Bank a
Special Account to be managed by the SC/PMU under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
target date for the conversion of disbursements to the IDA's PMR-based disbursement procedures is
March 1, 2000 (one year after expected project start date). During negotiations, the Govemment agreed on
a time-bound action plan to use PMRs for disbursement.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Combinine PWP and Social Fund. The PWP and Social Fund (also IDA financed) both aim to attain the
CAS objectives of job creation and poverty alleviation. While the two projects appear to have overlapping
objectives, they are in fact complementary. Specifically, PWP finances rehabilitation and construction of
infrastructure facilities, i.e., schools and health centers, while the Social Fund equips and funds the
operations of these schools and health clinics by providing the education and medical staff and supplies.
The PWP-2 would continue to operate in the same manner as PWP regarding the Social Fund.
Entrusting subproiects to line ministries. The PMU has proven that through efficiency in contract
execution and timely payments, unit rates and implementation periods have been significantly reduced in
comparison with the experience in the line ministries. Since the PWP-2 is multi-sectoral, the
establishment of one PMU instead of having separate PMUs for individual line ministries is more rational
and less expensive. The track record of line ministries in executing these types of small works, scattered
around the country, is less than satisfactory.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                                          Page 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing, and planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
Sector issue                        Project                      (IDA-financed proj cts only)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
Job creation and poverty      Public Works Project                             S                   S
alleviation.
Poverty aueviation            Social Fund for Development                      S                   S
Increased access to potable   Al-Mukalla Water Supply Project                  S                  S
water.
Increased access to potable   Tarim Water Supply Project                       S                   S
water.
Capacity building and improved   Taiz Flood Disaster                           S                   S
flood protection for human life,
property, and infrastructure.
Restore economic infrastructure   Flood Emergency Project                      S                   S
damaged by flood and
institutional strengthening to
manage disaster recovery
programs.
Other development agencies
Netherlands Social Fund       Construction of schools through the Public
Works Project                                   NA                 NA
German Aid                    Water Sector Reform                             NA                  NA
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory), NA (Not Applicable).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been drawn from the "Portfolio Improvement Program: Review of the Social Funds
Portfolio, World Bank, 1997," a report commissioned by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group. The
review confirmed that public works and social development projects are effective instruments for
responding to emergency situations through the provision of basic infrastructure, while rapidly creating
short-term employment opportunities. The PWP is being implemented using a program approach, with
adjustments made as it has gained experience. The major lessons leamed from the review and from PWP
operations, which have been incorporated in the design of the PWP-2, are:
a)  the need for an independent and highly efficient project management capacity that would be
increasingly decentralized to better cope with the growing number of subprojects. The recruitment of
staff through open competition (advertisements), and the introduction of salary levels comparable with
those of the private sector, are prerequisites for attracting motivated staff of adequate competence.
This has largely been achieved under the PWP but would be further developed, particularly in view of
the strengthening of field offices, the appointment of staff specialized in community participation, and
the use of short- term consultants for training and environmental assessments;
b) the need for autonomy of the PMU in subproject selection and implementation, with support from the
Steering Committee; this would be further encouraged under PWP-2;
c) the need to further develop systems and procedures for monitoring and control as project scope



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                        Page 11
increases. To better evaluate the PWP-2, the computerized financial, accounting, and management
information systems, which are functioning well under the PWP, would be improved to monitor the
inputs and outputs and assess the quantitative and qualitative benefits of the subprojects. This should
include regular social impact and benefit assessment surveys;
d) the need to use the best practice approach to community participation in subproject identification and
preparation, and to secure community contributions in cash or in kind. This would also provide
additional assurance of subsequent sustainability in operation and maintenance;
e) the need to select contractors of adequate competence and qualified consultants for construction
supervision to ensure satisfactory standards. This is being - and would continue to be - addressed
through the classification of contractors and consultants, provision of training, and ongoing
performance evaluations; and
f) the need to more closely coordinate with the line ministries, local govemorates, and the Social Fund;
to select subprojects within the framework of sector development objectives; and to secure adequate
operation and maintenance of completed facilities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The PWP has proven to be a successful project, with about 4,000 subprojects from all governorates
awaiting approval, many of which include community contributions in cash or in kind. Therefore, the
Government has requested a follow-on project, proposing a doubling of the IDA credit for the PWP-2. A
letter from the MOPD dated November 11, 1997 asked IDA to extend the PWP project as a way to
continue its support for overall economic development through creation of job opportunities.
The implementation of the PWP has been highly demand driven, which confirms borrower commitment
and ownership. Other financing agencies have also expressed interest or confidence in the PWP, and the
Dutch funds have been entrusted to the PMU as its executing agency.
5. Value added of IDA support to PWP-2:
For this type of project, IDA draws on international best practice and brings a vast amount of experience
adjusted to the local environment. IDA was the leading architect of the PWP and provided significant
assistance in its formulation and preparation. IDA closely supervised implementation of the PWP with
staff from both the Resident Mission and Headquarters. It has gained practical experience from
preparation and implementation of community-based projects. The PWP also coordinated with the IDA-
financed Social Fund, and this synergy has proven beneficial to the communities. The success of PWP
will likely serve as a catalyst for PWP-2 to attract other donors. The IDA credit would be the core for
leveraging cofinancing from other donors and financing agencies. Cofinancing is expected to be in the
range of US$40-50 million, for which separate investment programs could be prepared by PMU and
adapted to donors' requirements.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                             Page 12
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[X ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=; ERR= [X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
Cost-effectiveness methodologv. For most subprojects under the PWP-2, a cost-effectiveness
methodology would be used to screen and rank proposals from an economic perspective. Because these
subprojects would not have an easily quantified revenue or other benefit stream, the least-cost way of
accomplishing the PWP-2's overall development objectives would be sought. Therefore, a set of selection
and rejection criteria was developed to screen subprojects and help ensure that only the most cost-
effective investments are funded. These criteria are shown in Annex IB, Subproject Selection Criteria. As
shown there, higher scores are given for Investment Cost per Person Month and Community Participation,
which should result in higher priority being given to subprojects that better address the PWP-2's
development objectives of: (a) mitigating the adverse effects of economic adjustment measures, and (b)
enhancing subproject sustainability. Thus, the cost-effectiveness analysis is included as part of the
subproject selection criteria.
Water and wastewater subprojects. It is expected that about 15 percent of subprojects under the PWP-2
would be for water or wastewater. Where the National Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA) would
assume operation of such civil works, a cost benefit-analysis would be applied using the benefit transfer
methodology. For community-operated subprojects in this sector (water supply only), the cost-
effectiveness methodology is inherent in the subproject selection criteria and no further economic analysis
would be required.
As part of the PWP-2 appraisal, an analysis was performed of completed PWP subprojects in which
operation and maintenance of the civil works had been taken over by NWSA. These subprojects were
shown to have a very high internal rate of return (IRR). In general, these subprojects recover their
investment costs within five years. Therefore, any NWSA-assumed subproject completed under the PWP-
2 would presumably have a similarly robust IRRR, and no economic analysis for these individual
subprojects is required.
Community water supply subprojects completed under the PWP were also examined during appraisal.
These subprojects all consist of water collection and storage schemes in rural areas. Using a cost
effectiveness approach, the analysis concentrated on determining the cost per cubic meter of storage
provided. For covered water storage tanks, the cost per cubic meter was about US$50.00. For uncovered
storage tanks, the cost was about US$17.00. Both costs are considered reasonable.
All water and wastewater subprojects would be required to meet all the selection criteria shown in Annex
IB, except for Investment Cost per Person Month. This exception is permitted because their inherently
capital-intensive nature does not overshadow the large number of positive externalities that result from the
increase in access to potable water and wastewater services.
See Annex 4 for a more detailed discussion and further information on water and wastewater subprojects.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                          Page 13
2. Financial
Under the PWP-2 a number of subprojects would be completed in sectors where cost recovery and tariff
policies apply. These matters would, however, be addressed only in the process of subproject selection,
which includes expected sustainability as a criterion, in view of the availability of funding for operation
and maintenance. At completion, facilities would be handed over to local govemments or operating
entities, and related financial issues would be addressed under other more specific lending operations.
Investment plan. The investment plan and sources of finance for the IDA-financed project, PWP-2, are
shown in Annex 5. The contribution of the Government corresponds to 10 percent of total costs, or about
US$6 million equivalent. Contributions by the communities/beneficiaries are conservatively estimated at
about US$4 million equivalent but are likely to be higher. The Government contribution could increase to
correspond to additional donor funding. During negotiations, the Government agreed that: (a) it would
finance the difference between project costs and the IDA credit, estimated at US$6 million, which would
be included in the Govemment's annual budget allocation and made available to the SC/PMU; and (b) it
would deposit counterpart funds on a quarterly basis to a Special Account for local funds at the same time
that IDA funds are deposited under a separate Special Account.
Fiscal impact. The estimated annual fiscal impact of the project is US$7.0 million for 1999 to 2003
(US$6.0 million of counterpart funds, plus interest and operating costs), US$1.0 million for 2003 to 2009
(interest plus operating costs), US$2.9 million for 2010 through 2049 (total debt service plus operating
costs), and then US$0.7 million thereafter (operating costs; constant 1998 dollars). Nondebt-related fiscal
responsibilities arise only from health and education subprojects, which together are expected to represent
about 50 percent of all subprojects undertaken. Reflecting current budgetary constraints, this is a 20
percent reduction from health and education subprojects completed under the PWP, where these two
sectors represented 71 percent of all subprojects completed. Recurrent obligations of the Government for
both types of subprojects are quite small compared to the relevant budgets. For example, recurrent
obligations from the PWP-2 are estimated to represent 0.3 percent of the Ministry of Health's total local
budget for 1999, and about 0.7 percent of the 1999 local budget for the Ministry of Education.
During the ten-year grace period of the proposed IDA Credit, interest payments would be an estimated
US$0.4 million. Starting in 2010, principal plus interest payments would be about US$2.0 million per year
and continue until 2049. If total annual debt service remained at about US$130 million during this period,
then PWP-2 debt service obligations would represent between one and two percent of this amount. Details
are available in the Project File.
3. Technical:
A key criterion in subproject selection would be its technical soundness. Technical criteria would be
developed for each subproject based on existing standards and practices available from the respective line
ministries and Government agencies. The PWP-2 would ensure that infrastructure, equipment, and other
inputs are consistent in size, quality, cost, and content with those of line ministries and Government
agencies to facilitate technical implementation.
The costing of subprojects has increasingly been refined under the PWP with the establishment of a
databank for unit rates. The PWP-2 would be guided by these unit costs, which have been on a declining
trend due to timely payments and shortened construction periods. There would be annual technical audits
of the subprojects and adjustments could be introduced to improve the overall work quality.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                        Page 14
4. Institutional:
The PWP-2 would support, through training and technical assistance, the enhancement of institutional
capacity in the communities so they could take over the completed assets. These matters have been
partially addressed under the PWP and will be further emphasized under the PWP-2.
5. Social:
A mid-termn review and beneficiary impact assessment of the PWP were undertaken in 1998. Overall, both
reports confirmned that PWP progress has remained consistent with original project objectives and is
reaching those population groups most affected by the Govemment's economic adjustment program. The
Beneficiary Impact Assessment (Annex 8) concluded that small-scale infrastructure improvements have
had a positive impact on the living conditions of the poor throughout the twenty govemorates of Yemen.
Benefits have been equitably distributed among men, women and children. Infrastructure improvements
have resulted in improved access to health and education facilities and services - especially for women
and girls. The poor have also enjoyed improved access to potable water and a cleaner environment.
Social impacts were assessed at the household and community levels. At the household level, the incomes
of poor families increased from the employment creation component of the PWP, enabling them to better
meet their basic needs. At the community level, the PWP has reduced the unemployment rate in poor
urban districts and remote rural areas. To strengthen the social development objectives of the PWP-2, the
PMU would ensure that communities, including women, are involved in subproject identification and
other decision-making processes.
Additionally, the PMU would focus on involving local groups and NGOs within the govemorates, by
providing: (a) orientation on requirements for participation in the PWP-2, and (b) training in the
participatory approach in development.  Social impact assessments would be carried out for each
subproject at completion based on a standard format, to be agreed upon with the IDA. For the IDA annual
reviews, the PMU would prepare a summary of the social impact achieved under subprojects completed
during preceding year.
6. Environmental assessment (see Annex 9): Environmental Category[ ] A   [X] B   [: C
Given the nature and size of subprojects, no significant environmental impacts are anticipated; and the
project has been rated "B" for the purpose of Operational Directive 4.01. During subproject selection and
prioritization, the potential environmental impact would be reviewed, and any subproject with potential
adverse environmental effects that cannot readily be remedied will be rejected. Furthermore, at the
finalization of subproject design, a brief environmental assessment, including needed remedial actions,
would be prepared. At the completion of such subprojects, a final environmental report would be prepared
to verify that necessary remedial actions have been implemented.
Standard environmental assessment formats for different sectors would be prepared by the PMU with the
assistance of environmental experts, and incorporated into the Manual of Procedures after review by the
IDA. These procedures would be applied as needed under the PWP-2, and the environmental reports prior
to and after subproject completion reviewed on a random basis during the annual reviews. The
Environmental Management Plan, shown in Annex 9, elaborates on the above matters.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                               Page 15
From the experience of the PWP, it is likely that the PWP-2 would provide environmental improvements
in the communities where subprojects would be executed.
7.. Participatory approach:
The PWP involved community contributions in cash or in kind, but these were concentrated mainly in
rural areas. The contributions have taken different forms, such as provision of land and material for
inclusion in construction works, or execution of parts of subproject components. Experience and
beneficiary surveys have shown that for community contributions to materialize, the form they will take
should be agreed upon prior to subproject selection.
Under the PWP, community contributions were included as a selection criterion without being a
requirement for subproject acceptance. Under the PWP-2, however, community participation would be
mandatory, and the PMU is planning to hold meetings to sensitize communities to the need for their
participation. Communities would be asked to participate in all subproject development phases including
prioritization, preparation, design, and implementation, in addition to contributing in cash or kind to the
costs of subprojects.
For the PWP-2, community contributions would be given a higher score in the selection criteria than has
been the case for the PWP, and subprojects with less than a 5 percent contribution would be rejected.
Expected contributions have been conservatively estimated at US$4 million, or about 7.5 percent of total
subproject costs. Efforts would be made to increase this portion, which would then also increase the total
value of the subprojects. Communities would olso be asked to participate in operation and maintenance
and in the provision of' recurrent funding requirements. The PMU would appoint a community
participation specialist to develop and implement a systematic approach to community participation,
including specific training programs.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
'I'he sustainability of investments made under the l'WI' and l'WI'-2 would be subject to the ability of
operating entities - communities, local governments, sector ministries, and national authorities - to
operate and maintain completed facilities and ensure sufficient lunds for O&M expenses. The coverage of
O&M expenses, even if it takes place partly under different donor arrangemcnts, is a matter of concern in
all sectors in Yemen, given the poor fiscal situationl and public administration. The PWP-2 would help
ensure the sustainability of subprojects by: (a) rcequiring f'ull commuinity involvement in subproject
selection  and  implementation; (b) requiring contributions to  subprojects; (c) reviewing  O&M
responsibility as an explicit feature of subproject appraisal; and (d) giving higher scores for subprojects
that would not depend on significant contributions from sector ministries, and for those that rely on
community efforts. Subprojects with no provision for sustainability and contribution to O&M costs would
be rejected.
Under the PWP-2, annual reviews would assess the operational status of subprojects completed under the
PWP, and measures would be taken, as needed, to correct any shortcomings in PWP subprojects. The
reviews would also provide inputs on subproject preparation and implementation under the PWP-2.



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                                          Page 16
Although provision would be made to secure adequate operation and maintenance of completed facilities,
the risks of ensuring long-term sustainability would remain.
2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Selection of subprojects with high labor content.   M        Labor content is the major selection criterion, and selected
subprojects would comprise works in which a minimum
amount of machinery would be used.
Construction costs would be maintained at           M        Through timely payment of contractors, competition would
competitive rates.                                          increase.
The capacity of PMU would be adjusted to output     M        The PMU staff would be strengthened and its operation
requirements.                                                further decentralized. Staff would be recruited with
competitive salaries.
Annex 1, cell from Components to Outputs"
Timely allocation of local counterpart funds.       M        Government commitments would be ensured during
Country Portfolio Perforrnance Reviews (CPPRs).
The use of consultants with adequate competence.    M        The performance of consultants would improve with
ongoing training provided through the PMU.
Simplification of disbursement procedures.          M        This would be assured during CPPRs.
Overall Risk Rating                                 M        Government commitment.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk).
3. Possible controversial aspects (Project Alert System):
None identified.
G: Main Credit Conditions
During negotiations, the following were agreed upon:
e The Government of Yemen would not make any changes in the membership of the Steering
Committee or its terms of reference without prior consultation with IDA;
* The Government would maintain adequate staff in the PMU and would consult with IDA prior to
making any key appointmients or replacements;
* The Government would provide assurances that annual and quarterly investment programs would be
submitted to SC and IDA for review and approval;
* The Government would use Project Management Reports as the basis for the new disbursement
methodology for the PWP-2;
. The Government would: (a) finance the difference between project costs and the IDA credit,
estimated at US$6 million; and (b) deposit counterpart funds on a quarterly basis to a Special Account
for local funds at the same time that IDA funds are deposited under a separate Special Account.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The PMU is in place and fully operational, with additional staffing appointments to be finalized by
mid-1999. The competence and capacity of the PMU has been proved under the PWP, as has the
applicability of relevant working procedures. A first annual investment program for 1999, based on
agreed- upon subproject selection criteria, was reviewed and approved by the SC and the IDA. Based on



Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project                                                              Page 17
this, the PMU will prepare a first quarterly investment program and consultants will be appointed to
prepare engineering design and tender documents. That will enable contracts for the subprojects to be
signed by about March/April 1999 or to coincide with anticipated credit effectiveness. Subsequent
investment packages would then be prepared on a continuous basis.
The preparation of the PWP-2 is sufficiently well advanced to enable subproject implementation to start at
the time of credit effectiveness. Implementation would thus overlap with the completion of the remaining
PWP subprojects currently scheduled for mid-1999.
[ ]  Not applicable.
[X]  The quality of the Project Implementation Plan is satisfactory.
[ ]  The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G):
[X]  This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
[ ]  The following exceptions to IDA policies are recommended for approval:
I. Compliance with IDA Policies
The project complies with all other applicable IDA policies.
Team Leader:         Amir Al-Khafaji
Sector Director:     Jean-Claude Villia
Country Director:    Inder K. Sud



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 18
Republic of Yemen                                                                                                Annex I
Second Public Works Project                                                                                   page 1 of 4
Annex 1
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
CAS Objective:                                                                                (Goal to IDA Mission)
1. Support stabilization,      1. Macroeconomic data and         1. Periodic IDA macro-       1. Macroeconomic stabilization
structural reforms, and social  indicators, national accounts data,   economic assessment reports.   and structural reform measures
protection measures.           social indicators of development.                              are implemented. GDP growth
continues.
2. IDA portfolio implementation  2. IDA Country Portfolio
2. Improve portfolio           ratings. Future project designs and   Performance Reviews.     2. Sustained GOY commitment
implementation and             objectives.                                                    to project support. Availability
sustainabiiity of past and future                                                             of counterpart funds.
investments.
Project Development Objective:                                                                (Objective to Goal)
Mitigate the adverse effects of  I. Improvement in poverty       Periodic social impact       1. PMU continues to function
economic adjustment measures.   indicators, especially for women  assessments.                smoothly.
and children.
Enhance project sustainability.
2. Improved access to basic      Project supervision reports,    2. Close coordination with the
infrastructure services.         ICR.                         Social Fund for Development
Project.
3. Level of community                                         3. High degree of community
participation.                                                participation in subproject
financing.
4. Overall development of local                               4. Communities put forward
consulting and construction                                   well-targeted projects for
industries.                                                    financing.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Page 19
Republic of Yemen                                                                                                 Annex 1
Second Public Works Project                                                                                    page 2 of 4
Annex 1
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Risks
Outputs:                                                                                       (Outpits to Objective)
I Job creation.                 1. Approximately 95,000 person-    IDA mid-term, supervision,    1. Subproject sclection criteria
months of employment are created.    and ICR reports. PMU       are followed. Subprojects with
quarterly and annual        a high number of person-
progress reports.           months are put forward for
funding.
2. Cost-effective provision of  2. Unit rates decrease in price.                                2. Contractors learn from
needed infrastructure.          Completion of 800 - 900                                         expcrience, competitive
subprojects.                                                    bidding practices are
maintained, communities put
forward needed infrastructure
subprojects for funding.
3. Development of small-scale    3. Use of approximately 15()                                   3. Economy provides enough
consulting and contracting      consulting enginecring firmis and                               opportunities to support a
industry.                       I(00 contractors; plus training and                             growing contracting industry.
seminars for thcse firms to develop
their expertise and implemicntation
skills.
4. Improved project             4. Number of PMU personnel who                                  4. PMU retains staff. GOY
management.                     complete training sessions.                                     allows PMU to operate
autonomously.
Project Componienits/Sub-       hIputs: (budgetfor each                                        (Componjents to Outputs)
components: (see Anniex 2for    componienit, (lS$ Millioni)
project descriptioni)
Quarterly and annual PMU    Contractors can complete
1. Cin il Works (Comm11unity                                       reports.                    subprojects at competitive
Infrastructure)                 1. 53.0                                                         prices.
IDA disbursement reports.   Communities put forward
2. Technical Assistance/                                                                        appropriate subprojects for
Consultant Services.            2.  4.0                                                         financing.
3. Project Management
3.1 Institutional Strengthening
3.2 Furniture, Equipment &    3.1  2.7
Vehicles.
3.2 0.3



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                              Page 20
Republic of Yemen                                                                                                       Annex I
Second Public Works Project                                                                                          page 3 of 4
Annex IA
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Distribution of Investment by Governorates
Distribution based on population = 50% and povertv = 30%/O  ||
1~         ~      .                      -.             -                                       -         -         -1
Adjusted  Percent of Percent of Allocation  Allocation -Allocation                    Percent Percent of
Governorate     population    total      poor        if     if poverty  Subtotal    for        Total   of total    poor
for new   population population population    = 50%              remote/              (54.0)  population
government                        = 30%    28.5million            deprived
=  17.1million                      20% =11.4
1  Taiz             2,015,985    13         13       3,618,687   2,183,543  5,802,230       0  5,802,230    10        13
2  lbb               1,836,176    12        1 2      3,295,931  2.063,793  5,359,724         0  5,359.724    9        12
3  Al Hodiedha       1,754,493    II         1       3.149,310   1,857,714  5,007,024        0  5,007,024    9        1
4  Dhamar            1,049,120    7         12       1,883,167   2,075,523  3,958,691        0  3,958,691    7        12
5  Sana'a            1,132,416    7         10       2,032,683   1,742,140  3,774,823        0  3,774,823    7        10
6  Hajja             1,119,494    7         4        2,009,488    658,827  2,668,316   800.000  3,468,316    6        4
8  Hadramout          871,202     5         7        1,563,805   1,119,962  2,683,767        0  2,683,767    5        7
7  Sana'aCity         973,548     6         4        1,747,516    624,631  2,372,147    300,000  2,672,147    5       4
9  Ai-Beida           496,119     3         6          890,532    969,155  1.859,687    800,000  2,659,687    5       6
10  Lahaj              642,667    4          4        1,153,585    650,911  1,804,497   700.000  2,504,497    4        4
I   Amran              742,673    5          4        1,333,096    765,032  2,098,128   300,000  2,398,128    4        4
13  Aden               564,3351   4          3       1,012,980    592,625  1,605,605   700.000  2,305,605    4         3
12  Abyan             416,271     3          2         747,205    360,201  1,107,407  1,000,000  2,107,407 - 4         2
14  Al Mahwait        402,992     3          4         723,369    759,438  1,482,807   600,000  2,082,807    4         4
15  Sada'a            472,264     3          1         847,713    107,726   955,438  1,000,000  1,955,438    3         1
16  Al Jawf            348,667    2          0         625,856      6,148   632,004  1,200,000  1,832,004    3         0
17  Shabwa             375,546    2          1         674,104     156,870   830,974  1,000,000  1,830,974    3        1
18  Al Mahra           112,615     I         1         202,144     118,309   320,453  1,500,000  1,820,453    3
19  Marib              183,053     i         1         328,580     133,725   462,305  1,000,000  1,462,305    3        1
20  Dhalee             367,827     2         I         660,248     153,726   813,974    500,000  1,313,974    2        1
Total           15,877,463    100       100     28,500,000  17,100,001 45,600,001 11,400,000 57,000,001    100    100



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 21
Republic of Yemen                                                                           Annex I
Second Public Works Project                                                              page 4 of 4
Annex 1B
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Subproject Selection Criteria
Attributed            Rejection
Criteria                 Subcriteria          Scoring      Score                Criteria
Community contributions             >30%                 12                    Community contribution is
11% - 30%             10                     less than 5%
uptolO%               8
Labor content (as % of              > 50%                10                    Not applicable
subproject value)                   > 35%                6
> 20%                2
Investment cost per person        < US$300               20                    Investment cost per person
month                      between US$300 - US$400       12                    month >US$500
>US$400               4                     Not applicable for 
wastewater & water
Poverty alleviation              High poverty            10                    Not applicable
Medium poverty           6
Lesser poverty          2
Investment cost per              Up to US$20             I 0                   Not applicable
beneficiary (US$)               US$21 - US$50            6
US$51 -US$ 100            2
Improvements in                                                                Does not meet minimum
environment                                                                    environmental criteria
Sustainability                                                                 No plan for sustainability



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 22
Republic of Yemen                                                               Annex 2
Second Public Works Project                                                   page 1 of I
Annex 2
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - CIVIL WORKS (Community Infrastructure) - US$53 million
Subprojects will be selected from proposals that have been or will be submitted by communities
and local governments with requests for financing under the ongoing PWP or proposed PWP-2.
The subprojects will be evaluated and prioritized based on selection criteria, and consolidated in
quarterly investment programs. The subprojects should Icollectivelyl have national coverage,
with emphasis on poverty areas. They should also have a high labor content and include
community participation. They will cover rural and urban water supply and sanitation, storm
water drainage, flood protection, rural roads and sidewalks, schools and health centers. The
subprojects will be small in size, averaging about US$60,000, and be implemented over a period
of 6-12 months.
Project Component 2 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/CONSULTANT SERVICES -
US$4 million
Technical assistance/consultant services will cover: (a) assisting communities and local
governments in the identification of subprojects, with preparation of proposals and requests for
financing; (b) preparation of feasibility studies, engineering design, and tender documentation for
subproject proposals; (c) construction supervision for subproject execution; (d) benefit
assessment surveys; (e) auditing; (f) training, including workshops, of consulting firms and
contractors; and (g) environmental assessments and other assignments as to be found justified.
Training of PMU staff is also included.
Project Component 3 - PROJECT MANAGEMENT - US$3 million
Maintaining and further strengthening the Project Management Unit (PMU) that was established
for the PWP and will be kept for the PWP-2. This will include financing of all staffing and
operational costs, procurement of office equipment and vehicles, and compensation to Steering
Committee members for attending meetings.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 23
Republic of Yemen                                                               Annex 3
Second Public Works Project                                                   page I of I
Annex 3
Republic of Yemen National
Second Public Works Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                       Local         Foreign        Total
----------- -    (US$ million)-
Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Community infrastructure subprojects                   47.0          6.0        53.0
B. Technical Assistance/Consultant Services
Investment planning, design, and supervision            4.0                      4.0
Other services including auditing
Subtotal Services                                          4.0                       4.0
C. Project Management
PMU operational cost                                   2.5                       2.5
Fumiture, equipment, and vehicles                                   0.5          0.5
Subtotal Project Management                                2.5          0.5          3.0
Total Project Cost                                          53.5          6.5         60.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 24
Republic of Yemen                                                                          Annex 4
Second Public Works Project                                                             page I of 4
Annex 4
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Economic Analysis
Methodology. All subprojects to be financed under the PWP-2 will be subject to either a cost-effectiveness
economic analysis or a cost-benefit economic analysis. For those subprojects analyzed used cost-effectiveness,
the selection criteria outlined in Annex IA will ensure that only the most cost-effective ones are financed in
each govemorate. Therefore, after the selection criteria are applied, no other cost-effectiveness analysis is
required.
Water and wastewater subprojects, where the operation of the civil works will be taken over by NWSA, will be
examined using the cost-benefit methodology via a benefit transfer technique, based on results from actual
subprojects completed under the PWP. Results show that these subprojects have very robust IRRs and,
therefore, no cost-benefit economic analysis is required under the PWP-2 for subprojects that will be taken
over by NWSA.
Cost Effectiveness Analysis. Most subprojects to be undertaken under the PWP-2 do not have an easily
quantifiable benefit stream and, therefore, are better suited to a cost-effectiveness analysis. These subprojects
are typically school building construction/rehabilitation, roads paved with stones over short distances,
community-operated water schemes, small-scale flood protection, and the construction of small public
buildings. The cost-effectiveness selection criteria would consider two key variables reflecting the project's
development objectives of labor creation and provision of needed infrastructure. These variables are: (a) the
investment cost per work-month created; and (b) community participation. These two criteria would be
considered in conjunction with the other relevant selection criteria shown in Annex 1B (except for community-
operated water supply projects, as discussed below). Scoring for these two principal cost-effectiveness criteria
permnit more maximum points than for the use of other criteria, thus helping to ensure that these projects are
given funding priority.
Three rejection criteria would also be applied during subproject selection to help ensure that only the most
cost-effective projects are considered for funding. First, community participation must be at least 5 percent of
the total investment. Second, any project that cannot produce a person-month of labor for less than $500 would
also be rejected. Any subproject that does not have a plan for sustainability would be rejected.
The major advantages of these selection and rejection criteria are that they will prioritize the more labor-
intensive and sustainable subprojects in the pipeline, and will provide, over time, an inherent incentive for
communities to increase the labor content and self-financing characteristics of subprojects put forward for
consideration, thereby directly addressing the project's main development objectives.
A numerical example is available in the project file. The example illustrates two identical subprojects, except
that one generates a person-month for less than $300, the other for more than $300. With all other variables
held constant, the subproject with the lower cost has a selection score about 20 percent higher than the higher
cost subproject (48 points versus 40 points).
Assumption. The only important assumption for projects analyzed using the cost-effectiveness methodology
is that the selection criteria in Annex lB are carefully applied and that the resulting highest-ranked subprojects
are funded first.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 25
Republic of Yemen                                                                    Annex 4
Second Public Works Project                                                       page 2 of 4
Water and Wastewater Subprojects. About 15 percent of the PWP-2's subprojects are expected to be water
and/or wastewater projects. Infrastructure constructed in this sector can be either operated by the community,
or connected to the system operated by the National Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA), which also
assumes operational responsibility.
Schemes Tumned Over to NWSA for Operation. For NWSA-assumed schemes completed under the PWP, a
cost-benefit analysis was performed using actLal data. This analysis showed that these subprojects produce
very robust estimated intemnal rates of return (28 to 127 percent). All estimates indicate that these subprojects
recover investment costs within the first five years through current NWSA tariffs or increased rental values.
Analysis worksheets for a NWSA-assumed water and wastewater scheme are shown in annexes 1 and 2.
Using a benefit transfer methodology to NWSA-assumed water and wastewater subprojects to
be undertaken by the PWP-2, these robust returns can be assumed to accrue to these future
subprojects as well. No other analysis is necessary - as long as the following parameters are
maintained:
Selection Parameters for Schiemes where NWSA AssuLm1es Operational Responsibility:
* NWSA national tariff for water and/or wastewater service is applied once the subproject is turned over to
NWSA for operation;
* NWSA connection fees are assessed upon connection to the system; and
*  Water and/or wastewater connections made under the PWP-2 do not require an extension or enlargement
of the secondary or primary network or treatment facilities.
NWSA tariffs and connection charges are shown in Table 4.1. In the analysis shown in annexes I and 2,
houselholds likely to be affected unlder the PWP-2, and subject to charges from NWSA after the subproject is
completed, will likely consume about 50 liters/capita/day, or about 9.75 m3 per month per household. Under
these assumptions, the yearly water bill would be about YR 1,960 (US$14.00), assuming 6.6 people per
h1ousehold. Annual sewer bills would be about YR 1,372 (US$9.80). Household consumption is assumed to
be all in the first block, or YR 15 per cubic meter per month for water and YR 10.5 per cubic meter per month
for wastewater.
Table 4.1. NWSA Water and Wastewater Tariffs
Domestic Customers, 2A" connection
Monthly Consumption (m3)               Tariff (RY/m3)
Water       Wastewater       Total
0-10                          15.0           10.5          25.5
11-20                         25.0           17.5          42.5
21-30                         40.0           28.0          68.0
+30                           50.0           35.0          85.0
Connection Fee               11,888         5,000
In addition, each bill is assessed a 10 percent surcharge.
The Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) for NWSA-assumed water schemes is estimated in Table 4.2
at about 28 percent. For wastewater subprojects, the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is
estimated in Table 4.4 to be about 125 percent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 26.
Republic of Yemen                                                                       Annex 4
Second Public Works Project                                                           page 3 of 4
If the PWP-2 considers a water or wastewater connection subproject that would require an extension of the
primary or secondary network or of the treatment facility, then a separate economic analysis would need to
be performed before funding is approved.  (The subproject would also be subject to a separate
environmental analysis.)
Assumptions. Important assumptions for water schemes taken over by NWSA are the price of tanker water
(YR 150/m3 in the base case) and the liters per capita consumption from tankers in the "without project"
scenario (20 I/c/d). The tanker price in the Sana'a area is well documented and is considered more or less
standard for Yemen's upland urban areas. Prices may be lower in coastal areas, but the effect of this
hypothesis is tested in the sensitivity analysis discussed below. Twenty l/c/d is considered a conservative
estimate for the base case, but the effects of a reduction are also subject to the sensitivity analysis.
For wastewater schemes taken over by NWSA, the critical assumption is the factor used to convert financial to
economic flows. On a financial basis, the FIRR is negative, reflecting relatively high investment costs versus
revenues generated at the NWSA wastewater tariff and consumption limited to the first tariff block (see Table
4.1). The conversion factor models the increase in rental value that accrues to neighborhoods converted from
cesspits to piped sewer service. Extensive research on the change in rental values was performed in the Akama
district of Sana'a in 1998, as part of the preparation of the proposed IDA Sana'a Water and Sanitation Project,
scheduled to be effective in FY99. For this area of Sana'a, rental values were documented to increase in value
by about 100 percent after installation of a sewer system. For these analyses presented, a modest increase of
10 percent was assumed for the base case, reflecting the fact that water subprojects are done in many urban
areas. The sensitivity of this assumption was tested in the sensitivity and switching value analysis that follows
belo-w.
Sensitivity and Switching Values. For water subprojects where the operation is taken over by NWSA, results
of the sensitivity and switching analyses are sunrniarized in the following tables:
Table 4.2. Sensitivity Analysis
NWSA-Assumed Water Scheme
Scenario                 Description                 Resulting FIRR
Base Case                                                  28%
I      I/c/d from tankers reduced 25% to 15 I/c/d      18%
(20 l/c/d in Base Case)
2      Tanker price is reduced by 30% YR105/m3         16%
(YR150/m3 in Base Case)
3      Scenario 1 + 2                                  9%
The results show that the analysis results are fairly stable. Even the unlikely event of both consumption of
tanker water being reduced to a very modest 15 I/c/d and a 30 percent overestimate in tanker water prices, the
FIRR is still just below the 10 percent hurdle rate generally used in potable water projects.
Switching values for the NWSA-operated water scheme are shown in Table 4.3 below. Results also confirm
the robust results of the sensitivity analysis.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 27
Republic of Yemen                                                                     Annex 4
Second Public Works Project                                                        page 4 of 4
Table 4.3. Switching Values
NWSA-assumed Water Scheme
Scenario                    Description                     Value
What l/c/d consumption in the "with project"   11 I/c/d
scenario would be necessary to result in a NPV
of 0? Base Case is 20 l/c/d)
2        What would the price of tanker water have to  YR 22/m3
be in the "with project" scenario to result in a
NPV of 0'? (Base Case is YR 150/m3)
3        What value of O&M costs in the "with project"   $0.35
scenario would produce a NPV of 0? (Base
Case is $0.20/m3)
For the wastewater subproject where operation is taken over by NWSA, results of the sensitivity and switching
analysis are summarized in the following tables, Similar to the results shown for water projects, the results of
the analysis show the internal rates of return to be very stable compared to the base case.
Table 4.4. Sensitivity Analysis
NWSA-assumed Wastewater Scheme
Scenario               Description              Resulting EIRR
Base Case                                            127%
I      Increase in rental value in the with       58%
project scenario is reduced to 3
ercent 10% in Base Case)
2       Cesspit maintenance in the "without      122%
project" scenario is reduced to YRO
per year (YR 578 in Base Case)
3      Number of household connecting to          74%
the sewer system in the "with project"
scenario is reduced by 50% to 400
(Base Case is 800 households)
Table 4.5. Switching Values
NWSA-assumed Wastewater Scheme
Scenario                 Description                   Value
1     What increase in rental value in the with     0.4%
project scenario would result in a NPV of 0?
(Base Case is 10 percent)
2      What number of households connecting to the   47
sewer system in the with project scenario
would result in a NPV of 0? (Base Case is 400
households)
Project File. Disk and paper versions of the Excel worksheets of the economic analysis are available in the
Project File.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 28
Republic of Yemen                                                                          Annex 5
Second Public Works Project                                                             page 1 of 1
Annex 5
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Financial Summary
(US$ million unless otherwise stated)
Implementation Period
1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      Total
Project Costs
Civil Works                                  3.7      14.8      14.8      14.8      4.9    53.0
Technical Assistance/Consultant Services     0.5       1.0       1.0       1.0      0.5      4.0
Project Management                           0.2       0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7      3.0
Total                                           4.4      16.5     16.5      16.5       6.1    60.0
Financing Sources
IDA                                          3.5      14.0      14.0      14.0      4.5    50.0
Cofinanciers
Governnent
Central                                   0.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.0      6.0
Local/community                           0.4       1.0       1.0       1.0       0.6      4.0
Total                                           4.4      16.5     16.5      16.5       6.1    60.0
Financing Sources
(% of total annual costs)
IDA                                         80%       85%      85%       85%       74%      83%
Cofinanciers
Government
Central                                  11%        9%        9%        9%       16%      10%
Local/community                           9%        6%        6%        6%       10%      7%
Total                                         100%     100%      100%      100%      100%    100%



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 29
Republic of Yemen                                                                 Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                    page 1 of 10
Annex 6
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A. Procurement
Procurement of goods and works would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (World Bank, January 1995, revised and expanded January and August 1996
and September 1997).
Civil Works
Civil works include construction and/or rehabilitation of facilities under various subprojects. Civil works to
cost more than US$20,000 equivalent per contract would be awarded under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures using the Bank's standard bidding documents (for small works). Foreign contractors would
not be precluded from bidding for such contracts. Civil works contracts estimated to cost below US$20,000
would be procured through community participation in accordance with para. 3.15 of the Guidelines, and may
include participation of local communities/contractors employing labor-intensive and other appropriate
technologies, particularly in rural areas. The local procurement procedures and contract packaging would be
suitably adapted to reflect these considerations. All contracts valued above US$200,000 equivalent would be
subject to prior review and clearance by IDA.
Equipment, Vehicles, Etc.
The contracts for the provision of office technology (OT), fumiture, equipment, vehicles, and other items up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent may be awarded under Intemational Shopping (IS)
or National Shopping (NS) procedures. Contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$50,000 would be
subject to prior review and clearance by IDA.
Technical Assistance and Training
In order to assist the PMU in capacity building for the design, implementation, and monitoring of these
subprojects, as well as in assessing their socioeconomic impacts, the local staff would receive technical
assistance, on-the-job training, and where appropriate, overseas training. Consulting services for the project
would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997). These services would be procured using the Bank's
standard document, Standard Request for Proposals - Selection of Consultants (July 1997, revised April
1998). The individual consultants would be selected in accordance with Section V (page 38) of the above-
mentioned guidelines.
Consulting services would provide supervision, training, and technical assistance. Contracts for specific short-
term assignments for both international and local consultants, as well as NGOs (if feasible), would be awarded
for the design, supervision, and other aspects of various subprojects spread over many governorates.
Consultant contracts are expected to be in the range of US$5,000 to US$100,000 equivalent. Local individual
consultants, as needed, would be hired as per procedures given in the Guidelines.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 30
Republic of Yemen                                                                             Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                                page 2 of 10
Procurement and Administrative Procedures
The appraisal mission reviewed with PMU the procurement action plan for the first year investment program
and is satisfied that procurement actions would be satisfactorily carried out. An experienced procurement
officer is on board and the PMU plans to recruit an assistant procurement officer to ensure proper procurement
administration of the expanded number of subprojects under the PWP-2. A number of PMU staff have
received procurement training by the Resident Mission (RM) in Sana'a, and some have attended the
procurement training courses for borrowers held in Turin, Italy, by the World Bank and the ILO.
The PMU would finalize goods contracts up to US$50,000 and civil works contracts up to US$200,000 and
make them available for post reviews by IDA. The Resident Mission and the supervision missions from
Headquarters would audit the contracts selectively on a quarterly basis.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                 (including contingencies)
ICB       NCB         Other      N.B.F- 
1. Civil Works
Construction                                 53.0                                   53.0
(43.0)                                 (43.0)
2. Services
Design and supervision                                  3.5                          3.5
(3.5)                        (3.5)
Training                                                0.2                          0.2
(0.2)                       (0.2)
Other studies                                           0.3                          0.3
(0.3)                       (0.3)
3. Project Management
PMU operational costs                                   2.5                          2.5
(2.5)                       (2.5)
Furniture, equipment, vehicles                          0.5                          0.5
(0.5)                       (0.5)
Total                                        53.0        7.0                         60.0
(43.0)     (7.0)                       (50.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit. N.B.F. = Not IDA-financed (includes
elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, reserved procurement, and any
othser miscellaneous items).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 31
Republic of Yemen                                                                            Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                               page 3 of 10
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value             Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category                 (in US$)                   Method              Prior Review by IDA
.(threshold)                                       (threshold)
l. Civil works
>20,000          NCB                               200,000
<20,000          Community participation
2. Goods
>50,000          IS and NS                          50,000
<50,000          NS
3. Services
Design and supervision                          QCBS/fixed budget                   50,000
Training, studies, and
other
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  less than 10%
NCB - National Competitive Bidding; IS - Interniatio,ial Sl7opping; NS- National Shopping;
JCB - International Comzpetitive Bidding; QCBS- Quiality and Cost-based Selection
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                        Amount                 Financing
.(in US$ million)        (in percent)
Civil works - subprojects                                       43.0                 81
Furniture, equipment, and vehicles                               0.5                100
Consultant services, studies, training                           4.0                100
PMU operational costs                                            2.5                100
Total              50.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 32
Republic of Yemen                                                                    Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                       page 4 of 10
Table D: Disbursement Categories and the Percentage Financed
Local
Central     Community/                     Foreign   (excl.
IDA        Government       Local      TOTAL           Exchange  taxes)
Government
Amount  %    Amount  %   Amount  %    Amount   %
A. Civil Works
Subprojects        43.0     81   6.0       It  4.0       8    53.0       100  6.0        47.0
B. Goods
Fumiture
Equipment
Vehicles
Subtotal       0.5      100                               0.5       100  0.5
C. Technical Assistance
Design & supervision
Training, studies
Subtotal      4.0       100                               4.0       100             4.0
D. Project Management
PMU operational    2.5      100                                2.5       100             2.5
costs         _         =                  _
TOTAL COSTS            50.0                                       60.0             6.5       53.5
B. Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds. The proposed allocation of credit proceeds is given in Table C.
Special Account. A Special Account would be maintained in the Central Bank of Yemen, and would be
operated by the Public Works Project Phase-2 (PWP-2) Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Government
of Yemen (GOY). The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be $4 million, which represents
about 3 months of estimated disbursements from the IDA Credit. The authorized allocation would be $4
million until the aggregate disbursements from the IDA Credit reach the equivalent of SDR 35.6 million. The
Special Account would be operated in accordance with the IDA's operational policies.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements would be made against Withdrawal Applications
for reimbursements of expenditure with full documentation, reimbursement of expenditures against Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs), and direct payments. IDA would disburse against SOEs for the following types of
expenditures: (i) on contracts for civil works costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (ii)) on contracts for goods
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (iii) on contracts for consultants services costing less than $50,000; (iii)
training expenditure; (iv) PMU operating costs.
Although disbursements would initially be made using the IDA's existing disbursement procedures (as
described above), it was agreed at Negotiations that the PMU would operate the project financial management
system and produce quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) from the system; and that PMU would
take necessary steps (especially the recruitment of the Financial Manager as indicated below) to enable
conversion of disbursements to the IDA's new PMR-based disbursement procedures as soon as possible. The
target date for this conversion would be March 1, 2000. An assessment of the project financial management
system and actions to be taken, are given below.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 33
Republic of Yemen                                                                  Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                     page 5 of 10
Assessment of Financial Management System
The project is a follow-on project to the on-going Public Works Project (PWP I). The main implementing
agency of the Public Works Project Phase-2 is the PMU, which is a non-revenue earning entity. The PMU has
established and is operating a computerized accounting system. An appraisal of the accounting system
indicates that the major strengths of the system are: (i) a good accounting system has been established and
operational. Accounting books are maintained on double-entry system and are up to date; (ii) staff have been
trained to carry out basic accounting functions; (iii) a reasonable system of internal controls in place. An
Accounting Manual has been prepared which documents the various accounting systems and procedures; (iv)
there is a good system of transaction audit (by a firm of Certified Public Accountants) which is an added
internal control mechanism; and (v) a very good computerized system with facility for generating several
financial reports has been developed and is operational. Financial information from the accounting system is
used to prepare various management reports (although to a limited extent).
The PMU is currently upgrading its computerized accounting, financial, management information systems
from an off the shelf-ready to-use-software to the Oracle software. This is to improve on various aspects, such
as: (i) presentation of financial information to ensure that financial information is provided in clear, simple,
user-friendly and consistent form; (ii) preparation and audit of project financial statements. The PMU has
been consistent in the timely preparation of financial statements, and for audit of these financial statements,
which enhances the credibility of financial statements; (iii) use of financial reporting/financial statements as a
project management tool to improve accountability. The PMU relies heavily on financial information for
analytical purposes and actively use the information in decision-making; (iv) need for enhanced transparency
and consistency of project and financial activities and expenditures through integrated computerized project
accounting, financial and management information systems; (v) improvement in internal controls on advances
paid to by the PMU to the sub-area offices, and on checking and accounting of expenditures incurred by these
sub-area offices; (vi) ensuring that all project-related activities are reflected in the project accounts and
financial statements; and (vii) documentation of operation of the computerized system and controls over data
integrity.
The PMU has initiated actions to improve its financial management system for the project, with the assistance
of a consultant (Certified Public Accountant). A Financial Management Manual has been prepared in Arabic
and will be revised (in English and Arabic) to document the operation of the project Financial Management
System. The Financial Management Manual would be formally adopted by project management as the
document that would govern all financial management aspects of the project. The improvement and adoption
of the Financial Management Manual is an important step in bringing a 'systems orientation' to project
finanicial management (as contrasted with a transaction-orientation). The Manual covers the following aspects:
(i) flow of funds; (ii) financial and accounting policies; (iii) accounting system and internal control
mechaniisms; (iv) Chart of Accounts; (v) financial reporting (including formats of financial management
reports); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting; and (viii) organization and staffing for financial
management functions. The Financial Management Manual would be periodically updated and improved
based on implementation experience.
Flow of Funds. GOY would pass on the IDA funds to the PWP-2 (through MOPD) with GOY bearing the
foreign exchange risk. GOY would provide counterpart funds for the project through a budgetary allocation to
the Ministry of Planning and Development under a single identifiable item called the 'Public Works Project-2.'
The allocation would include both counterpart funds of GOY and funds from the IDA Credit. Budgetary
allocations would be based on the annual budget for project activities prepared by the PMU in consultation and
coordination with all sub-area offices.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 34
Republic of Yemen                                                                  Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                     page 6 of 10
All funds for the project would flow through the PMU. MOPD would provide funds for the project (budgetary
allocation and IDA-provided funds) to PMU. Beneficiary contributions to project costs would also be received
by PMU. PMU would utilize the project funds for project-related expenditures on the basis of their agreed
civil work plans. The PMU would provide advances to the sub-area offices to enable them to carry out the
work, and would subsequently set-off these advances against project expenditures incurred by the sub-area
offices.
Financial and Accounting Policies. Financial and accounting policies for the project will be developed and
added in the Financial Management Manual. These policies are crucial for ensuring transparency, providing
clarity regarding financial aspects to the various interested parties from both public and private sector and
finance staff, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability.  These policies inter-alia cover the following
aspects: (i) expenditures which would be treated as project expenditures including their classification; (ii)
expenditures which would be eligible for reimbursement from the IDA Credit; (iii) provision of advances to
sub-area offices, and accounting of funds provided to these sub-area offices; and (iv) project accounting
policies. These policies would be gradually expanded and refined to include aspects such as efficient
management and deployment of funds, intemal control policies, etc. All sub-area offices would comply with
the financial and accounting policies of the project indicated in the Financial Management Manual.
Proiect Accountine System. The PMU would be responsible for overall project financial management and
accounting. The PMU would maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial
statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements.
The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i)    Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by the PMU on double-entry bookkeeping
principles. Project accounts would be maintained using the computerized accounting system, which has been
developed and operational in the PMU. For the future, the computerized accounting system would be
developed as a networked system connecting all the PMU sub-area offices and head office.
(ii)    Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including beneficiary contributions).
This would include payments made to and expenditures incurred by all sub-area offices. All project-related
transactions (whether involving cash or not) would be accounted in the books of accounts. This would include
contributions made by beneficiaries in the form of labor, land, and materials. Disbursements made by the IDA
and the Special Account (for counterpart funds) maintained by PMU would also be included in the project
accounting system. Funds received from different sources - MOPD, IDA, other donors and beneficiaries would
be identified separately and reflected in the project accounts and financial statements
(iii)   Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities of PMU. This
distinction would be effected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance for the project capturing
all project receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the project would be prepared. A Chart of
Accounts for the project has been prepared. The Chart of Accounts conforms to the classification of
expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan and Project
Appraisal Document). The Chart of Accounts enables data to be captured in a manner as to facilitate financial
reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement
categories; and (iv) PMU office and sub-area offices.
(iv)    Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be fully based on the project books of
accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 35
Republic of Yemen                                                                  Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                     page 7 of 10
(v)    Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linked to financial costs would
be maintained as part of the project financial management system. Initially this would be maintained for some
high cost items, which account for a significant portion of project cost, and for items for which data on
physical activities can be easily captured. These items have been identified and will be indicated in the
Financial Management Manual. This list would be gradually expanded during implementation.
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes
(i)    PMU would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on
activities directly managed by PMU.
(ii)    Sub-area offices would maintain supporting documentation for expenditures on activities managed by
them. PMU would maintain books of accounts on double entry bookkeeping principles, for their activities
under the project. PMU would provide a summary statement of expenditure monthly based on the books of
accounts, along with other information and documents (details given in the Financial Management Manual), to
enable PMU to account for these expenditures.
(iii)   Sub-area offices would maintain supporting documentation for expenditures on activities managed by
them. These offices would maintain books and accounts and would submit to PMU a summary statement of
expenditure monthly based on their books and accounts, along with other information and documents (details
given in the Financial Management Manual) to enable PMU to account for these expenditures.
(iv) All sub-area offices would maintain separate (distinct) books and records in respect of transactions for
activities under the project.
(v)    Expenditures incurred by the PMU and all sub-area offices would be audited by the project auditors
(Certified Public Accountants); and
(vi)   This system would be reviewed in the light of implementation experience, and modified as necessary.
Internal Controls
The project finanicial maniagemiienit system includes the following internal control mechanisms:
(i)    Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets
and targets;
(ii)    Adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project (as described earlier). These policies
and procedures are included in the Financial Management Manual.
(iii)   At the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring
standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc. These policies and
procedures are given in the existing Accounting Manual and Procurement Manual of PMU and would be
reviewed and updated periodically; and
(iv)    Establishment and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism, including concurrent audit (as
described below).



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 36
Republic of Yemen                                                                  Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                     page 8 of 10
Financial Management Reports
Ouarterly financial management reports for the project would be generated from the computerized financial
management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional
details) and would be used for project management by PMU. The reports would include: (i) a comparison of
budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including sources and application of funds
(by components, expenditure categories and sub-area offices), and on physical parameters and unit rates for
selected key items; (ii) expenditures by disbursement categories; (iii) forecasts for the next 2 quarters. Formats
of the reports are given in the Financial Management Manual.
Annuallv: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to IDA. PFS would include: (i) a
statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from various sources,
project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project. This would also include appropriate schedules
classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories, PMU and sub-area offices; (ii) a
Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the IDA Credit made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS would be submitted to the IDA not later than 6
months after the end of the Fiscal Year (i.e., not later than June 30 for the fiscal year ended on December 31 of
each year).
Auditing Arrangements
A firm of Certified Public Accountants, who would be the Project Auditors, would audit the accounts and
financial statements of the project. The annual project financial statements audited by the firm of Certified
Public Accountants would be submitted to the IDA within 6 months of the close of PWP's fiscal year. The
T erms of Reference (TOR) and qualifications of the firm of Certified Public Accountants are included in the
Financial Management Manual and have been reviewed by the IDA. The cost of the audit by the firm of
Certified Public Accountants would be eligible for financing from the IDA Credit. The Bank's Guidelines for
selection of consultants would apply to the engagement of the firm of Certified Public Accountants.
The audit by the Project Auditor would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources
and uses of funds, and expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies). The audit will be carried out in
accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The Terms of Reference of the auditors includes both
audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the operation of the financial management system per se,
including review of internal control mechanisms. All sub-area offices would provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required by the auditor for the purposes of the audit.
The audit would also cover any cost-based consultancy or other contract-, for which no supporting
documentation is provided to PMU. The Project Auditor would carry out a concurrent audit at the end of each
quarter, to bring to management's attention any issues, which may be required to be addressed. This would
strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit.
The Project Auditor would be appointed before the start of the project. The firm would initially be appointed
for one year. Depending on satisfactory performance, the contract would be extended for a maximum period
of two additional years. To ensure rotation of auditors, a different firm would be appointed for the subsequent
period.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 37
Republic of Yemen                                                                    Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                       page 9 of 10
Staffing
Key Professional Staff: Currently the key staffs in the finance and accounts functions of PMU are a Financial
Manager, who is supported by an Accountant. To augment its financial management capabilities, PMU plans
to recruit a qualified professional, an experienced Certified Public Accountant or Cost Accountant as Financial
Manager, as a replacement to its previous Financial Manager. The Financial Manager would head the PMU's
Finance and Accounts function; and would provide the necessary leadership, vision and direction to modernize
the financial function in PMU. The appointment of this additional qualified professional staff is crucial for the
satisfactory operation of the financial management system for the project. A middle level Certified Public
Accountant (as Assistant Financial Manager) assists the Financial Manager.
PMIT has supporting junior accounts staff (two Assistant Accountants, one is Certified Public Accountant) at
the PMU office. This staffing is adequate for the project. The new improved computerized system, which
would fully automate many of the functions such as compilation, generation of financial reports, etc., would
also help significantly in reducing work load and ensuring timeliness and quality of accounting and financial
reporting. The PMU also expects to recruit a junior level accountant with knowledge of computerized
accounting system, by March 31, 1999.
Areas for Improvement
Overall, the financial management system documented in the financial management manual is satisfactory.
However, the scope needs some improvement. The recruitment of the one qualified professional staff with the
necessary training and experience in the operation of modem project and financial management systems, along
with inputs by the project auditors (on the operation of the system), would provide the necessary foundations
for these improvements. Some of the areas for improvement are: (i) sensitization and training for PMU
professional staff (and those of the sub-area offices) in financial planning and management, operation of
'system-based' internal controls, financial policies, etc., (ii) training of financial staff in all sub-area offices in
basic computer operations (spreadsheets, word processors, databases, operation of the computerized financial
management system, etc.); (iii) ensuring better linkages between physical and financial activities, including
expanding the items for which physical data is captured in the financial management system (e.g., construction
of drains, roads, schools, water wells etc); (iv) developing better linkages between physical and financial
fLnctions in PMU, especially since these functions are closely related (on aspects such as internal controls over
projects, etc.); and (v) development and implementation of internal service standards for all finance and
accounlting functions. These as well as other improvements would be addressed during project implementation
on a continual basis.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
Financial Management System: The design of the Financial Management System is substantially advanced. A
Financial Management Manual documenting the financial management system has been prepared; and will be
finalized shortly after review  and incorporation of suggestions.  The computerization of the FMS
(modifications to the existing computerized system) has also begun and is expected to be completed by
January 30. 1999.
Appointment of Auditors: Draft Terms of Reference for financial audit of the project have been prepared; and
the process of recruitment of a firm of Certified Public Accountants as project auditors for the first year has
begun. The auditors are expected to be appointed by March 31, 1999.
Recruitment of Key Staff: The process for recruitment of one additional key financial staff (Financial
Manager) has commenced. The Financial Manager is expected to be appointed by Viarch 31, 1999.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 38
Republic of Yemen                                                                         Annex 6
Second Public Works Project                                                          page 10 of 10
Risks
There are two main risks relating to financial management aspects: (i) unsatisfactory intemal controls over
expenditures incurred by sub-area offices other than PMU; and (ii) delays in preparation of project
management reports. These risks and the risk-mitigation measures are outlined below. Both these risks are
considered as manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken.  Nonetheless, these are
highlighted here in view of their potential for adversely affecting project performance. These aspects will be
monitored closely as part of project supervision.
Internal control mechanisms for expenditures on PMU and sub-area offices need strengthening. This risk is
mitigated by the following factors: (i) maintenance of project accounts by PMU covering all sub-area offices;
(ii) establishment of financial policies and procedures which would govern project expenditures by the PMU
and sub-area offices; (iii) audit of expenditure of all sub-area offices, including concurrent quarterly audit, by
the project auditor (Certified Public Accountants); and (iv) provision to modify these arrangements based on
implementation experience.
There is a risk that preparation of the project management reports would be delayed and that the quality of the
reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that PMU has not previously prepared
project financial statements. Timely preparation and use of the project management reports, and satisfactory
quality of these reports, are essential to facilitate effective project management. The risk-mitigation factors are
the substantial up front actions which have been taken on: (i) design of a comprehensive financial management
system; (ii) computerization of the financial management system; (iii) recruitment of key financial staff to
augment financial management capabilities; and (iv) training of staff on the preparation of Project
Management Reports (PMRs) through project management trial reporting using previous quarters' project
activities and financial transactions.   Pending the appointment of the qualified professional staff,
disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of PMRs, but will rather be made on the
traditional reimbursement basis. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the key
professional staffs have been recruited and the financial management system is satisfactorily operated.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 39
Republic of Yemen                                                                      Annex 7
Second Public Works Project                                                         page I of 4
ANNEX 7
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
MID-TERM REVIEW
Analysis of ExDerience/Results
1.     A Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the Public Works Project (PWP) was carried out in May 1998 with the
conclusions presented in a report dated May 1998. The MTR was also intended to serve as background
documentation for preparation of a proposed follow-up project to the PWP, the Second Public Works Project (PWP-
2). The following paragraphs evaluate projections made at appraisal versus actual data, and present lessons that
should be adopted for the proposed PWP-2.
2.     The IDA credit for the PWP amounts to SDR17 million, which at the time of appraisal corresponded to
US$25 million. Because of fluctuations in exchange rates, the actual value (in US$ termrs) has been reduced to about
US$23 million, and relevant outputs under the project have been reduced accordingly.
3.     Present status (April 1998) on PWP implementation can be summarized as follows:
a)  100 subprojects have been completed, 211 subprojects are under execution, 65 subprojects (estimated
value US$3million) were contracted for by end May 1998, and the remaining 24 subprojects (about
400 subprojects in total) will be contracted for by August 1998. By December 1998 more than 385
subprojects will be completed, with the remaining subprojects to be completed by April 1999;
b) disbursements for the first quarter 1998 amounted to US$2.86 million and are for the second quarter
1998 estimated at US$2.8 million. The appraisal estimates were US$2 million and US$1.5 million,
respectively; and
c) the PWP will be completed by early 1999, when the IDA credit will be depleted.
4.     The objectives under the PWP were to:
a) generate an estimated 75,000-96,000 work-months of employment at a cost ranging from US$260 to
US$350 per work-month;
b) deliver much-needed infrastructure services;
c) improve environmental and sanitary conditions; and
d) enhance community participation.
5.     Regarding generation of work-months, it has been concluded that:
a) daily labor costs were estimated at appraisal at US$2.20-5.00 for unskilled labor and US$6.00-10.00
for skilled labor. Actual costs are US$5.40 and US$10.00, respectively;
b) labor costs as a percentage of contract values were projected to average 34 percent, while the actual
average was 28.5 percent - 26.5 percent in urban areas and 29.6 percent in rural areas; and
c) based on actual labor content and labor costs, the number of work-months per US$100,000 of
investments amounted to about 205 (including skilled and unskilled workers and supervisory staff).
This corresponds to 51,250 work-months at US$25 million and 47150 at US$23 million (adjusted to
the change in exchange rates). This implies that under the project the actual number of work-months
was about 47,000, or about 44 percent less than projected.
6.     Regarding delivery of much-needed infrastructure services, more school buildings and health centers have
been built and more water supply and wastewater facilities have been constructed under the PWP than by the line
ministries.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 40
Republic of Yemen                                                                          Annex 7
Second Public Works Project                                                              page 2 of 4
7.     Environmental and sanitary conditions have been improved through the construction of flood protection
works, the laying of sewer pipes in areas where sewage was previously overflowing because of non-functioning cess
pits, and the paving of streets and sidewalks, particularly for markets (commercial areas).
8.     Community participation and contributions have been forthcoming in many forms but have not been well
documented. Direct and indirect contributions have been estimated at about 14 percent of total investments, which is
quite an achievement considering that, because of the urgency of subproject preparation, community participation
was not initially considered a priority.
9.     The distribution of funds under the investment programs was based on the following principles:
a) all 18 governorates, for which information on population (based on the 1994 census) and poverty levels
(as a percentage of total population) is known, should be covered by subprojects;
b) the funding was divided as follows: 50 percent to be distributed based on population; 16 percent to be
distributed based on poverty levels; and 34 percent to be distributed based on remoteness and
deprivation;
c) the distribution of investments were decided by the Steering Committee and approved by the Bank;
and
d) the proportion of investments between urban and rural areas has turned out to be 35:65; for rural areas,
there has been an increasing emphasis on remote villages. This would reflect the proportionately higher
poverty level in rural than in urban areas.
10.    During the appraisal of the PWP, tentative assumptions were made on the distribution of subprojects among
different sectors. All subprojects have passed through the governors' offices and emanated from requests mnade by
line ministries (at the governorate level), municipalities, and communities. The process has been demand driven,
with priorities established at the local level, and far more requests have been submitted than could be accommodated
for funding. This has resulted in priority being given to construction of school buildings, with health centers coming
in second place. Thereafter, there is about an equal distribution among water, sanitation, and road subprojects.
11.    The labor content under various contracts (one contract represents a subproject) was calculated for 100
completed contracts (cost US$5.7 million), estimated for 211 ongoing contracts (cost US$10.5 million), and
compounded for all 311 contracts (cost US$16.2 million). An analysis of the data indicates that:
*   labor content for urban and rural areas has averaged 28.5%;
*  the labor content is higher in rural (29.6%) than in urban (26.5%) areas, which can be partly explained
partly by higher community contributions in rural areas;
*  the labor content is highest for water supply (36.1 %), since contracts did not include supply of pipes
and fittings;
*  the labor content is also high in the dominating sectors of health (34.5%) and education (27.7%); and
*  the labor content for the agricultural sector (16.3%) is surprisingly low, for which no specific reasons
can be given.
It can be concluded that alternative composition of subprojects would have effected the labor content only
marginally, and that, under the circumstances, about 30 percent is what can be achieved. The contracts have been
small in size - average value US$51,000 - and execution of works has been labor intensive.
12.    The labor costs have also been analyzed separately for skilled and unskilled workers, with the following
conclusions:
*  the costs for skilled and unskilled workers were proportionately about 60:40; and
*  the work-months created for skilled and unskilled workers were proportionately about 45:55.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 41
Republic of Yemen                                                                          Annex 7
Second Public Works Project                                                              page 3 of 4
13.    The number of beneficiaries for the 311 completed and ongoing subprojects (total cost US$16.2 million)
has been estimated at about 2.5 million, or an average of about 8,150 per subproject. This corresponds to an average
investment cost per beneficiary of about US$6.40, which is comparatively small.
14.    The PWP has significantly contributed to the development of small-scale construction industry, and the
following can be concluded:
* for the 311 subprojects, 250 contractors were selected, out of which 47 have been awarded more than
one contract;
* many contractors that previously worked as subcontractors to larger firms have, under the PWP, gotten
the opportunity to work independently;
* contractors were willing to work in remote areas;
* competition has been significant, with an average of 10 contractors submitting tenders per contract;
* the performance of the contractors has been satisfactory, with delays occurring under only 40 contracts,
with the contractors at fault in 10 cases;
* the contracts have been executed at unit rates about 40 percent below the unit rates applied under
contracts executed by line ministries, mainly because of timely payments and efficient project
management; and
* the quality of works has been fully satisfactory.
15.    The PWP has likewise contributed to the development of a local consulting capacity, and has employed
about 100 consultants for subproject preparation and 105 for works supervision. About half the consultants are
individuals and the other half consulting firms. The performance of the consultants, who have benefited from training
given by the PMU, has overall been satisfactory. The availability of local consultants was an uncertainty at the
initiation of the PWP, but it has been shown that supply readily adjusted to demand. Most consultants come from
sector ministries and as the market develops, the sector ministries can be expected to rely increasingly on local
consultants for various tasks.
16.    A beneficiary impact assessment is under preparation by an independent consultant with the objective of
identifying the benefits generated at the stage of subproject execution and those to be generated afterwards. Sample
subprojects have been selected with the results to be analyzed and summarized in a report to be submitted for review
by August 1998. Through this exercise, procedures should also be established for preparation of benefit assessments
for application under the PWP-2.
17.    An assessment of the functioning and performance of the PMU is summarized as follows:
a) the PMU staff is presently composed of 24 professionals -- 6 of which are located in field offices -- and
5 support staff;
b) PMU has at present 6 field offices, and two more are proposed;
c) to handle expected future workload, the number of professional staff is proposed to increase from 24 to
37, with the bulk of the increase (6 to 16) to take place in field offices. There is also a need to increase
the number of support staff (5 to 14);
d) with an increasing number of contracts covering wider geographical areas, the workload of the field
offices will grow, and a future challenge will be to monitor and control these offices and to maintain
their present level of performance;
e) specific staff strengthening at the PMU head office would include new positions for community
participation and training specialists and for additional support to the MIS manager;
f) a rather comprehensive MIS has been established, but it has still to be developed into an effective tool
through better utilization. This particularly applies to the field offices, where training is required;



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 42
Republic of Yemen                                                                      Annex 7
Second Public Works Project                                                          page 4 of 4
g) the auditing and accounting systems as developed are functioning satisfactorily;
h) the Staff Service Rules and Manual of Procedures have been adequate but should be reviewed in the
context of the proposed follow-up project; and
i) the costs for the PMU, referred to as overhead costs under the project, correspond to about 8.2% of
total costs, which under the circumstances are reasonable. This percentage is expected to decrease with
economies of scale to be achieved under a larger follow-on project.
IN CONCLUSION. THE PMU HAS PERFORMED BEYOND EXPECTATIONS.
18.    The sustainability of subprojects executed under the PWP cannot yet be determined, but initial indications
are encouraging. In rural areas, where community contributions have been more significant than in urban
areas, sustainability because of commitments already made can be assumed. For urban areas where sector
ministries or authorities are involved, it is a matter of developing their operational capacity under separate
lending operations and ensuring the allocation of sufficient funds for recurrent expenditures.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 43
Republic of Yemen                                                                     Annex 8
Second Public Works Project                                                         page 1 of 6
Annex 8
Republic of Yemen
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BENEFICIARY IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Background and Objectives. The Government of Yemen initiated the Public Works Project (PWP) as a social
protection package to mitigate the adverse effects of its macroeconomic reform and stabilization program on low-
income and poor families. The PWP intends to improve the state of physical and social infrastructure, improve the
delivery systems for infrastructure services, and generate employment opportunities for the urban and rural poor.
Specifically, project objectives aim to generate an estimated 75,000-96,000 work-months of employment at a cost
ranging from US$260 to 350 per work-month; and to enhance community participation in the preparation and
implementation of subprojects for civil works.
A beneficiary impact assessment was conducted between 26 June - 16 July 1998 to identify, examine, and evaluate
the following:
1. the social groups benefiting from project activities, including small contractors.
2. the kind and nature of project benefits to the beneficiaries.
3. the number of temporary and permanent jobs created by the project, including opportunities created for small
building contractors.
4. the impacts of the project on different aspects of beneficiaries' lives: family income, health conditions,
education, improved living conditions.
Methodology. A sample size of 46 subprojects, either completed or under implementation, was selected based on
the following criteria:
*  Different ecological regions
:  Population density
*  Sector focus
*  Urban, rural, and remote areas
The sector distribution of the sample size included 12 health, 15 education, 8 water and sewerage and 11 road
improvement/floods protection subprojects and spanned 7 governorates.
Two survey teams of men and women trained in data collection methodologies carried out the survey. Prior to their
fieldwork, the teams received lists containing the number and type of projects to be visited in each govemorate and
questionnaire guidelines which provided useful instructions regarding who should be interviewed, ideal times to
conduct the interviews, and a map delineating the location of subproject sites.
Primary data were collected through direct interviews with groups of beneficiaries in each of the 46 subproject areas;
additional data were gathered from meetings with local leaders or authorities, regional officials, and project staff, and
through the direct observations of team members.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 44
Republic of Yemen                                                                          Annex 8
Second Public Works Project                                                              page 2 of 6
Findings. Approximately 146,500 people are benefiting from the 46 subprojects surveyed. The individuals reached
per subproject vary by sector; Box I shows on average the number of individuals reached through subprojects in
each sector.
Box 1: Average Number of Beneficiaries/Sector
Health         Education        Sewerage           Water       Roads/Floods
Beneficiaries          3,800           2,300            6,900            2,000           5,200     l
Of the beneficiaries interviewed, 31%  reported improved health benefits; 28%  indicated an improvement in
sanitation conditions; 20% are the recipients of improved educational infrastructure, and 11% are the beneficiaries of
road improvements.
Disaggregating the benefits by gender shows an equitable distribution across gender lines. However, as the groups
most affected by the lack of health services, educational opportunities and potable water, women and girls were the
primary beneficiaries of health, education, and water and sanitation subprojects.
Achievements. The overall performance of the PWP is excellent. The disbursement rate is consistent with projected
financial forecasts, and significant progress has been made toward meeting planned objectives: 352 subprojects have
been completed or are under implementation, 162 and 190 respectively, which represent 75% of total planned
activities under the PWP within half of the project period. Subprojects are implemented at 40% of the costs for
similar projects implemented through government institutions.
Institutional Setting. PWP is organized at three levels: central, regional, and local. At the central level, a Steering
Committee provides overall guidance and supervision to the PWP. It is chaired by the Minister for Planning and
Development and consists of three ministers, the Director for the Prime Minister's office, one Deputy Minister, the
Project Director, and three non-government members, two of whom represent NGOs. A Project Management Unit
(PMU) is headed by Project Director.
At the regional level are six Regional Managers (RM), each responsible for a number of governorates. RMs have
limited authority, and regional offices are inadequately staffed and equipped. PWP representatives at provincial or
local level are minimal or nonexistent in most cases.
Collaborative Relations. PWP has established strong collaborative relations with government institutions at the
local, regional and central levels. Relationships with local authorities and tribal leaders have helped to expedite
subproject implementation in certain areas.
The PWP has also established linkages with the Social Fund for Development (SFD) and the Dutch. In Phase II, the
National Community Improvement Program (PWP-2) should extend its collaboration to other organizations -
multilateral and bilateral donors, international NGOs, and local institutions -- working in Yemen. Many of these
organizations are either working in the same areas or have project/program components similar to those of the Public
Works Project. Below is a list of illustrative organizations/institutions with which PWP-2 can coordinate its
activities:
Multilateral and Bilateral Donors
* WFP (fund equipment provision)
*  UNICEF (equipment and materials for schools).
*  UNDP (Poverty Alleviation Program, Environment Program)
* GTZ and EC (Food Security Program).
International NGOs
* Care, ICD, Oxfam and Raada Bamen.
* Volunteer organizations (provision of inputs, staff and/or equipment).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 45
Republic of Yemen                                                                          Annex 8
Second Public Works Project                                                              page 3 of 6
Local Institutions/Ortzanizations
*  Regional Development Authorities (RDAs) and Projects (RDPs).
* Southern Governorates Poverty Alleviation Project
* Local NGOs.
Project Impact. It appears that improved physical and social infrastructure in different regions, especially in areas
where such services did not exist, has had a positive impact on the living conditions of people and on the overall
poverty situation as well. The beneficiary impact assessment evaluated these socioeconomic impacts at the
household and cornmunity levels. It also considered impacts on women and the environment.
Impact on household income: Employment generation provided much-needed income to a number of families and
reduced the unemployment rate in poor urban districts and remote rural areas. The 46 surveyed subprojects created
383 permanent jobs, 9,180 work-months of direct temporary jobs, and 2,754 work-months of indirect jobs in the
retail and service sectors. In addition, 218 small contracting firns and 109 construction engineers accrued direct
benefits, which increased their incomes and strengthened their organizational capacities.
The field survey also noted that access to job opportunities for skilled and unskilled labor and contract opportunities
have not been equitably distributed. Only 6% of skilled and 23% of unskilled labor are from the project area, while
65% skilled and 41% unskilled labor has been imported from other governorates, especially in Hadramout and
Mareb. Similarly, 60% of contractors and 56% of construction engineers originated from other governorates as
compared to 9% and 11%, respectively, drawn from the project area.
Benefits to conm-munity: Temporary and permanent job creation under PWP has certainly mnitigated the situation for
individual families as well as reduced the unemployment rate in urban, rural, and remote areas. Increased household
incomes for both direct and indirect beneficiaries were spent on meeting the household's basic needs.
Benefits to women: As the group most affected by the lack of health, education, and water services, the field survey
also found that women and girls have been the primary beneficiaries of improved infrastructure and services in these
sectors. Increased enrollment rates of girls were observed in rural areas. Women have also found employment
opportunities under the PWP. In the surveyed subprojects, 20% (77) of the permanent jobs created are staffed by
women, especially as teachers, nurses, and cleaners, while 5 % (138) of the indirect jobs are occupied by women.
Environmental Impact: Many of the surveyed subprojects have improved the public health environment, either
directly or indirectly, through improved access to potable water and rehabilitated sewerage systems.
Impact on Poverty: The distribution of subprojects has been targeted to those areas most affected by poverty and
high unemployment. The field survey confirmed the relevance and appropriateness of the poverty targeting
mechanism. It established that the majority of beneficiaries of improved infrastructure are poor: 66% of those
surveyed live under or within poverty line, 25% are within or above the poverty line, while only 9% are well-off.
Sustainability: Identification of feasible cost-recovery mechanisms for operation and mnaintenance (O&M) activities
can ensure sustainability. Under PWP, a certain portion of the income generated under water projects has been
designated to meet O&M needs; for sanitation projects, the National Water and Sewerage Authority has imposed
reasonable sewerage fees on water utility bills to cover the O&M costs of the sanitation network. In 41% of the
health projects surveyed, health services have established visit and treatment fees at a rate that will maintain the
facilities. At the time of the field survey, no operational or maintenance plans had been put in place for education
subprojects.
The capacity of local governments or communities to assume responsibility for O&M needs to better assessed under
the PWP-2. Moreover, emphasis needs to be placed on strengthening community participation and ownership. World
Bank experience shows that for small-scale infrastructure, conmmunity participation is an essential component to
ensure correct subproject identification and longer-terrn sustainability.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 46
Republic of Yemen                                                                             Annex 8
Second Public Works Project                                                                 page 4 of 6
Lessons Learned. The sector focus of subprojects is consistent with the investment program. Furthermore, an
efficient management system has succeeded in achieving more results than originally planned. Nevertheless, to
strengthen the social development objectives of the PWP, the PWP-2 should address the following key concerns,
which would enhance project effectiveness and better reach the intended beneficiaries during the second phase.
1.  Levels of community participation were not satisfactory. Greater participation can be achieved if communities
identify needs and define their priorities. Subprojects that responded to the needs and priorities of communities
experienced higher levels of beneficiary participation and contribution.
2.  Government interference in project operations resulted in reduced project efficienlcy, delayed implementation,
and increased project costs. Recently, the Ministry of Finance imposed a tax (10-16%) on contractors,
consultants, and project staff.
3.  A significant number of subproject proposals are submitted by interested ministries and/or local governments.
Because ministries are responsible for equipping, staffing, and operating completed facilities, their approval of
subprojects is required. However, it was found that ministries, mainly health and education, have not fulfilled
comnnitments. Several completed facilities under PWP remain unequipped, unstaffed, and therefore not
operational.
4.  PWP subprojects focused on upgrading or building educationi and health facilities (52% and 20%, respectively),
where it was found that the participatory approach cannot be easily applied. This is the case because: (a)
ministries select projects in accordance with already established priorities and plans, which may not reflect the
priorities of a community, thereby minimizing their participation; and (b) the cost of constructing health and
education facilities is high, and beneficiaries cannot provide significant contributions.
5. In poor areas, mobilizing cash contributions is very difficult. Cash is scarce and daily wages are needed to meet
basic famnily needs. Therefore, labor is the preferred contribution of communities.
6.  Contributions (cash or labor) were not considered in the operational strategy. PWP strategy proposed that
subprojects should be implemented through contracts with small contractors. This has worked counter to the
participatory approach.
7.  In many cases, communities do not have the resources or capacity to cover O&M costs (especially for health and
education facilities). There was very little communiity demand for agricultural extension centers and road
pavement/improvement projects.
Recommendations. The need to provide a social protection package and alleviate the adverse effects of poverty still
overrides social development concerns in Yemen. The socioeconomic impacts of subprojects have improved living
conditions for the rural and urban poor. Currenitly, the Public Works Project is the only agency oriented toward job
creation and provision of social services to urbanl, rrlial, and remiiote areas. Hence, a follow-up to the Public Works
Project is warranted. Based on the initial lessons learned, the reconmmenidationis below have been grouped into three
categories, which the PWP-2 should incorporate into project designi.
Organizationial/Maniagement
Project autonomy should be a preconditioni for finanicinig the second phase of the Public Works Project. It should
renmain under the guidance of Ministry of Planning and D)evelopment (MPD), with linkages to other ministries.
However, ministerial interference in project operations needs to be minimized and more direct contact with
communities and beneficiaries needs to be established.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 47
Republic of Yemen                                                                        Annex 8
Second Public Works Project                                                            page 5 of 6
*  PMU management structure should be modified to be more efficient and responsive. The responsibilities of
Area Managers should be better clarified and understood. The role of Regional Offices must be strengthened,
resources (financial and human) must be increased, and decision making authority should be decentralized to the
regional level. Regional offices should be empowered to manage the bidding/contract award process. Tender
documents should be available through the regional offices; offers should be evaluated at the regional level.
*  In order to mainstream the participatory approach within the project and ensure sustainability of small-scale
infrastructure projects, a well-qualified social scientist should be recruited to become part of the core project
team. Furthermore, a promoter for each governorate should be hired to work directly with communities and to
ensure their involvement in subproject identification.
*  To increase the level of conmmunity participation, staff training in the participatory approach must be undertaken
to enhance knowledge of the rationale for the participatory approach and to strengthen skills in assessing
community capacity. Community members, regional managers, assistant regional managers, and promoters
should receive intensive training on community participation.
Program Design/Participation
*  Second generation subproject activities under PWP-2 should be more labor intensive and focus on, in the order
ranked by the community, rehabilitation of terraces; construction of small dams for drinking and irrigation
puLposes; protection of agricultural fields in wadis (gibbons and stones); and improvement and maintenance of
nural roads (walls, embankments, pipes).
*  Hlealth and education subprojects should be reduced to a mrinimum, with the exception of girls' schools and
student accommodations, for which funding should be maintained.
*  Information and awareness campaigns should be undertaken to inform various stakeholders, including local and
international NGOs, on PWP's objectives, requirements, procedures, and benefits.
i  The community-based approach should be adopted to facilitate greater participation by communities. Approval
of subprojects should be made contingent on certain levels of community participation, as specified by the
PMU.
*  Contractor-s should employ at least 50% of their labor needs from the project area, including site engineers.
*  Regular monitoring and evaluation of subprojects is essential. The socioeconomic impact/benefits of each
project should be assessed annually.
*  Plans identifying cost-recovery mechanisms for operation and maintenance should be clarified at the outset. The
capacity of communities and local governments for 0 & M activities should also be assessed.
Coordination Mechanism
Collaborative linkages should be made with other international and local institutions working in the same areas or
engaged in similar project activities. Better coordination will minimize duplication of effort and maximize the
allocation of resources to address poverty in Yemen.
* Regional Managers should coordinate with regional development authorities (RDAs), regional development
projects (RDPs), NGOs, and other community-based local institutions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 48
Republic of Yemen                                                                                Annex 8
Second Public Works Project                                                                   page 6 of 6
ACRONYMS
GAREW           General Authority for Rural Electricity and Water
GOY             Govemment of Yemen
MPD             Ministry of Planning and Development
MAI             Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MPH             Ministry of Public Health
MPWHUP          Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban Planning
PWP-2           Second Public Works Project
NGOs            Non-govemmental Organizations
NWSA            National Water and Sewerage Authority
PMU             Project Management Unit
RM              Regional Manager
RDA             Regional Deve!opment Authority
RDt;            Regional Developmert Project



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                      Page 49
Republic of Yemen                                                               Annex 9
Second Public Works Project                                                   page 1 of 7
Annex 9
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Overview
1.    The Govemment of the Republic of Yemen is committed, through the components of this
project, to improve the quality of life of the rural populations. The proposed Second Public Works
Project (PWP-2) will achieve this development objective through implementation of infrastructure
schemes that include: building, rehabilitation and upgrading of health centers and health units; building,
rehabilitation and upgrading of schools; community water systems; rural roads and storm water drainage.
2.    This project has been assigned Environmental Category "B" in accordance with World Bank
Operational Policy 4.01, "Environmental Assessment". The project is not anticipated to require any
involuntary resettlement or damage to archaeological and/or historical sites. However, the project is
classified into a "B" project due to its potential environmental impacts associated with the construction
of the rural infrastructure subprojects.
3.    Some of the proposed components include construction or implementation of infrastructure
health and education projects that may have adverse human health and/or environmental impacts if not
properly designed or operated. For this reason the borrower will (i) develop an environmental screening
process to identify potential impacts and undertake mitigation measures to reduce such impacts; (ii)
implement a practical monitoring program to determine the effectiveness and timeliness of these
interventions; and (iii) engage in capacity building and training activities to improve environmental
awareness and sensitivity among the project staff, counterpart agencies and beneficiaries.
Screening Process
4.     This process divides subproject into two groups: (i) those that will have no significant adverse
environmental consequences; and (ii) those that potentially may have some significant impacts and are
summarized in Box 1. It is sometimes possible that following a desk review a site specific environmental
review will be undertaken with the PMU with assistance from consultants.
5.    In general, there are two concems associated with these design and environmentally sustainable
operation. The project will develop minimum design criteria based on current Government construction
criteria (e.g., Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, Environmental Protection Council) that will
minimize adverse environmental impacts in accordance with Table 1.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 50
Republic of Yemen                                                                     Annex 9
Second Public Works Project                                                         page 2 of 7
Subproject Desk Review                      Site Specific Environmental Review
Objective:                                          Objective:
Ensure that environmental issues are                Ensure that environmental impacts
Considered as part of design                        are reduced or minimized at site
Actions:                                            Actions.
*      Screen proposals for details concerning design  *    Review the current envirorunental
that meet criteria                                  condition at the site
.      Provide technical assistance directly or enlist  .   Assess the potential environmental
support of specialists to help project              impact associated with the proposed
formulator or contractors                   scheme
.      Recommend Site Specific Review when          .       Identify mitigation measures in
significance or magnitude of scheme impacts         construction and operation
is high
Responsible Party                                   Responsible Party
PWP-2 PMU evaluation staff                          Environmnental Consultants and PMU
staff
6.     The borrower will provide a checklist of impacts and associated mitigation measures on the basis
of Table I as part of the project cycle evaluation and approval process during early implementation. This
generic criteria may be modified to reflect local conditions.
Monitoring
7.     The recommended interventions to avoid or reduce environmental impacts need to be monitored
to determine their degree of effectiveness following subprojects completion. This process will be
incorporated into the overall supervision of each subproject to indicate whether and how well mitigation
measures are being implemented during work scheme rehabilitation or construction. A monitoring plan is
provided in Table 2. A copy of the monitoring plan results will be submitted yearly as part of the annual
report by the borrower.
Institutional and Training Considerations
8.     The environmental capacity of the PMU staff will be enhanced through special training provided
in environmental review and assessment techniques. An environmental consultant will conduct training
workshops for staff and engineering consultants.
9.     The training will consist of the activities outlined in the description in Environmental Training
for the Republic of Yemnen Second Public Works Project attached to the end of this discussion. Various
tools for education purposes such as videos and field visits will be used for staff and community
counterparts.
Environmental Guidelines
10.    The Bank's Environmental Guidelines would be used as appropriate to mitigate the major
environmental issues in these projects and for which a checklist is provided in Table 2. These Guidelines
will be used during periodic training and demonstration to PMU staff, counterpart agencies and
interested contractors or delegated authorities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 51
Republic of Yemen                                                             Annex 9
Second Public Works Project                                                 page 3 of 7
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates
11.   The following efforts will be continued over the life of the project:
* Develop and Conduct Staff and Consultanats' Training
A contractor or environmental specialist will provide the training through a series of annual
workshops as described above.
* Coordinate with Other Agencies and Organizations
Counterpart agencies and organizations (e.g.,UNICEF, Oxfam, USAID) have been developing
useful environmental guidance for rural infrastructure projects. Such applicable information will be
identified and incorporated into the Project.
* Refine Practical Monitoring and Evaluation Measurements
Use of these guidance tools will be refined as they are used during the initial stages of
monitoring. It is anticipated that changes will be needed to improve their effectiveness.
The time of delivery of these activities is presented in Table 3.
Costs
12.   The estimated annual level of effort requirements for implementation of the EMP are listed
below. Majority of consultants and trainers are assumed to be Yemenis. These costs only include the
environmental review process, they do not cover added costs that may be required for design
requirements of subprojects to meet environmental standards."
Activity|                Level of Effort (per year)     Other Costs (US$/ year)
1. Screening
4 staff mm by PMU                   2,000
Desk Reviews
Site Specific Reviews            4 mm Environmental Specialist
(US$4,000);
2.Training                            2 staff mm from PIJU                 4,000
Staff and Community Training     2 mm Environmental Specialist
(15 days yr.)                    (US$2,000)
3. Supervision                         2 staff mm by PIU
2 mm Environmental Specialist            2,000
Monitoring                       (US$4,000)



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 52
Republic of Yemen                                                               Annex 9
Second Public Works Project                                                   page 4 of 7
Table 1. Checklist of General Environment Impacts
Sub-project  Negative          |           Mitigation                Executing
Sub-proj ect            Impacts                         Measures                   Agency
Design                         Design
Water        Contamination of water          Appropriate water storage        PMU
Supply       resources                       conditions with cover and        consulting
protection                       eingineers
Creation of stagnant water pools   Employ measures to avoid
creating stagnant pools by
improving landscaping, filling or
_  drainage at water stands
Operation                      Operation
Improper water discharge after    Proper drainage near water outlets   PMU with
use                          ! Minimal distance from agriculture   Consulting
Adequate protection from         Engineers
Waterbome diseases as result of I livestock
delivery system
Chemical imbalances in delivery
systems
Design                         Design
Sanitation/   Pollution at discharge of      Construct latrines with appropriate   Consulting
Latrines     seepage field                   ventilation tubes                engineers
Do not built latrine within 20
meters of well
Operation                      Operation
Unpleasant odors               Prepare pamphlets and distribute    PMU
Disease transmission



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 53
Republic of Yemen                                                                      Annex 9
Second Public Works Project                                                          page 5 of 7
Table 1. Checklist of General Environment Impacts
Negative                          Mitigation                   Executing
Sub-project              Impacts                            Measures                      Agency
Health                                          Designi
Centers/      Design anzd Operation             Waste management handling plan       PMU and MOH
Units         Health hazard from medical and  F
hazardous waste
Operation                           PMU and MOH and
Proper waste disposal e.g. blunting of   Consultants
1 of needles after use and crushing other
sharps; segregation of sharp (needles)
l  and infectious waste from regular
municipal waste; treatment using cost
effective means, containerized, and
properly disposed; containerize
infectious waste; treat infectious waste
with chemicals or disinfect; and
proper disposal of infectious waste to
avoid spread of disease.
Education and awareness campaign
_  for workers.
Design and Construction           Design alnd Construction
Rural                Construction impacts     I Avoid disturbance to streams         PMU
Roads                streams and aquatic        Divert water during construction
ecosystems                Maintain or restore vegetation
| Damage to sparse vegetation      Identify sites and avoid disturbance
Damage to historical/cultural sites   I If necessary, reroute sections
Operation              Operation
Increased sedimentation           Maintain drainage ditches/channels  Community
Degradation of soil cover       l
Storm         Designi and Construction          Design and Construction
Water         Degradation to sensitive habitat  Avoid discharge to sensitive habitats    PMU and Ministry
Drainage      Accident risk                     Introduce safety measure for workers    of Construction,
to minimize accidents               Housing and Urban
Minimize time trenches left open    Planning (MCHUP)
Operation                         Operation
Soil erosion                      Maintain proper dissipation works at    Community
Accident risk                     end of system
Ensure system access covers sealed



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 54
Republic of Yemen                                                                         Annex 9
Second Public Works Project                                                            page 6 of 7
Table 2. Monitoring Plan
Sub-project                 Monitoring Indicators                   Responsibility        Frequency
Water         Is water supply intake sufficiently protectedfr-om  Sana'a University    Annual
Supply        contamination?                                      with PMU
assistance
V Agricultural is undertaken above spring
V Animal access prevented
Are proper measr-es in place for drainage and rwunoff?
/ No indication of standing water pools
Are proper measures in place for wvater quality?
V Measurement of fecal coliforms
Sanitation    Is the latrine being used properly?                 Sana'a University    Annual
Latrines                                                          with PMU
V Sanitation principals provided                   assistance
/ Odor, conditions of use acceptable to users
Is the latrine miiaintained properly?
V Treatment chemicals are used
Health        Are medical and hazardous waste separated in the    PMU with MOH         Annual
Centers/      waste stream?                                       Consultants
Units
-Proper location of collection containers
V Proper type
Are adequate disposal mechanisms being used?
V Pit disposal in use with proper liner
V Other approved disposal procedures (e.g.,
microwave, autoclave) installed and used properly
Rural         Are drainage channels working?                      PMU                  Annual
Roads
v Drainage works working
V Works cleaned and maintained
Is there evidence of degradation to critical habitats?
V No impacts to streams, vegetation
Storm         Are there any safety concerns?                      PMU with             Annual
Drainage      / Collection system sealed and no exposed openings  MCHUP
Is there evidence of discharge problems at end of
system?
/ No erosion around discharge
V Storm water flow dissipated properly



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 55
Republic of Yemen                                                               Annex 9
Second Public Works Project                                                   page 7 of 7
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING
Objectives
13.   The overall objective of this training workshop is to improve technical capabilities of the PWP-2
officers in their ability to conduct environmental appraisals. The project officers are responsible for
evaluating subprojects such as classroom construction, health centers, rural drinking water supplies,
sanitation, rural roads and storm water drainage systems.
14.   Each subproject has its operational procedures and needs to have some form of environmental
classification, screening and review. The PWP-2 has developed several appraisal formns that include
environmental feasibility processes. The training will provide the PWP-2 staff with a better
understanding of environmental concerns and mechanisms for addressing these concerns. The training
will build upon current knowledge and is designed to provide better technical and administrative skills.
Topics covered will include:
15.   Screening projects for environmental review
Use of practical checklists
Best practices
Effective implementation of mitigation measures
Project supervision
Monitoring and evaluation
Who Should Attend
16.   All project officers from the PWP-2 responsible for aspects of operations, project management
and supervision and staff from other Ministries and organizations working with rural infrastructure
projects.
Table 3. Proposed Timeline for PWP-2 Environmental Management Plan Activities
Activities                  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  Year 5
Revise matrices for impacts and mitigation
measures
Develop and conduct staff training            X          X
Coordinate with other agencies and organizations   <-                                    >
Refine practical monitoring and evaluation    <                      >
measures
Supervision by Environmental Specialist       X            X        X



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 56
Republic of Yemen                                                                Annex 10
Second Public Works Project                                                     page I of I
Annex 10
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned
A. Project Budget (US$000)                   (At final PCD stage)         Actual
91                    62
Planned
B. Project Schedule                          (At final PCD stage)         Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)            6                      6
First Bank mission (identification)               05/15/1998             05/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                       10/24/1998             10/24/1998
Negotiations                                       11/5/1998             11/5/1998
Board                                             01/28/1999
Planned date of effectiveness                     03/31/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Planning and Development
Preparation assistance: Consultants
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Amir Al-Khafaji                         Lead Operations Specialist
Alexander McPhail                             Senior Economist
Josephine Masanque                            Finance Specialist
Arbi Ben-Achour                            Senior Social Scientist
Omar Karasapan                    Private Sector Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Geoffrey Read                  Principal Municipal Engineer (Peer Reviewer)
Uruj Kirmani                          Senior Procurement Specialist
Kenneth Miller                         Senior Disbursement Officer
Hadi Abushakra                             Senior Legal Counsel
Rebecca R. Ling                              Team Assistant
Laveme Cook                                 Team Assistant
Consultants who supported the Bank staff
included:
Lars Rasmusson                     Municipal Engineer (retired Bank staff)
Piet Gooverts                             Municipal Engineer
Ken Green                              Environmental Specialist
Ghada Jiha                                 Social Scientist
Deborah Davis                                    Editor



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 57
Republic of Yemen                                                               Annex 11
Second Public Works Project                                                    page I of I
Annex 11
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Operational Manual
Staff Service Manual
B. IDA Staff Assessments
1. Project Supervision Plan
2. Assessment of Financial Management
3. Project Procurement Plan
4. World Bank, Portfolio Improvement Program - Social Fund Review, March 1997
5. Public Works Project Mid-term Review, May 1998
6. Public Works Project Beneficiary Impact Assessment, September 1998 (Full Report)
C. Other
Copy of Legal Document for establishment of SC and PMU
*TIncluding electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 58
Republic of Yemen                                                                                      Annex 12
Second Public Works Project                                                                          page I of 2
Annex 12
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank's Group Operations in Yemen
Operations Portfolio
Difference between
Original Amount                expected and actual
Fiscal                                                         In US$ million                 disbursements
Project ID    Year   Borrower                Purpose
From     |
IBRD   IDA       Cancellations   Undisburse   Original  Reviewed
_ _ _               _     _        _     _1_          _    _         _        _    _        d                              l__ _
I      II 
Number of Closed Projects: 87
ACTIVE PROJECTS
RY-PE-50530   1999   Government   Sana'a Emergency Power    0.00    54.00           0.00          55.62       0.00     0.00
Seeds & Agriculture
RY-PE-39171   1998   Government   Services                      0.00    12.50        .00          11.92       0.30     0.00
Financial Sector
RY-PE-43101   1998   Government   Adjustment Credit             0.00    80.00       0.00          29.45      (1.70)    0.00
RY-PE-5902    1998   MOF             S. COV. Agr.               0.00    24.70       0.00          23.63       1.34     0.00
Privatization
RY-PE-41199   1997   Government   Social Fund Development    0.00    30.00          0.00          22.54     (4.23)     0.00
RY-PE-43367   1997   Government   Taiz W.S. Pilot Project       0.00    10.20       0.00           6.77       6.04     0.00
RY-PE-48522   1997   Government   Flood Emergency               0.00    30.00       0.00          20.47       2.87     0.00
RY-PE-41267   1996   Government   Transport Rehabilitation      0.00    37.00       0.00          29.73      16.04     0.00
RY-PE-43109   1996   Government   Public Works                  0.00    25.00       0.00           7.88      (1.82)    0.00
RY-PE-5912    1996   Government   Vocational Training           0.00    24.30       0.00          18.64       6.39     0.00
RY-PE-5911    1994   Government   Education Sector              0.00    33.00       0.00          28.07      16.82     0.30
RY-PE-5904    1993   Government   Basic Education               0.00    19.70       0.00           9.18       8.77     0.85
RY-PE-5910    1993   Government   Family Health                 0.00    26.60       0.00          21.33      18.61     3.54
RY-PE-5810    1992   Government   Nat. Agriculture Sector
Management                0.00    14.40        5.33           3.81      8.25      1.53
RY-PE-5836    1992   Government   Land & Water                  0.00    32.80       5.04           8.66      12.49     7.65
of ROY        Conservations
RY-PE-5806    1991   Government   Multi-Mode Transport          0.00    35.80       0.00           5.89     (2.52)    (1.60)
RY-PE-5835    1991   Government   Secondary Teacher Train    0.00    19.40          0.00           1.95       2.22     0.00
RY-PE-5892    1991   Ministry of
Fisheries     Fisheries IV               0.00    13.20       0.00           6.69       6.56     0.00
RY-PE-5808    1990   Government   Taiz Flood Disaster           0.00    15.00       0.00            .28     (1.31)    0.00
RY-PE-5822    1990   Government   Health Sector Dev't.          0.00    15.00       0.00            .73      ( .39)    0.00
RY-PE-5878    1990   Government   Power III                     0.00    15.50       0.00           9.39       8.40     0.00
RY-PE-5884    1990   Government   Tarim Water Supply            0.00    12.00       0.00           3.29       2.64     0.00
Government
RY-PE-5893    1989   of PDRY         Al Mukalla Water           0.00    12.00       0.00           3.16       3.02     0.00
TOTAL                                                           0.00   592.10       10.37         329.08     108.79    12.27
I!    Active Projects       Closed Projects    TOTAL
Total Disbursed (IBRD & IDA)                  250.50               817.79          1,068.29
Of which has been repaid                .12                  65.71          65.83
Total now held by IBRD & IDA                  581.61               721.39          1,303.00
Amount sold                                    0.00                 0.00            0.00
Of which repaid                         0.00                 0.00            0.00
Total Undisbursed                             329.08                5.06           334.14
Source: Operations Information System (OIS)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 59
Republic of Yemen                                                                           Annex 12
Seccnd Public Works Project                                                                page 2 of 2
Annex 12
Republic of Yemen
Second Public Works Project
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Statement of IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of August 1998
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed             |                Disbursed
FY
Approval     Company        Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan       Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998        Radfan        3.80     0.00      0.00     0.00     3.80      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio   3.80    0.00      0.00     0.00     3.80      0.00       0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending    0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00
Commitment                         _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                     Page 60
Republic of Yemen                                                                                                             Annex 13
Second Public Works Project                                                                                                 page I of 2
COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
M. East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        8 North      Low.
Yemen    Africa  income        Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     16.3      283     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  270      2,060      350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     4.4      583       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       3.3       2.3      2.1
Labor force (%)                                      4.9       3.2      2.3      GNP                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  19
Urban population (% of total population)             35        57        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     54        67        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             96        48        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           30         ..       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               52        71        71
Illiteracy (%of population age 15+)                  13        39        47
Gross primary enroliment (% of school-age population)  83      97        91                  Yemen, Rep.
Male                                              113       102       100                 Low-income group
Female                                             45        91        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GOP (USS billions)                            .        .       5.1      5.4
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                ..       ..      25.4     21.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP            ..       ..      40.4     45.6                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   ..       ..      15.5     13.G
Gross national savings/GDP                    .       ..      23.3     25.0
Current account balance/GDP                                   -1.4      3.1      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                          1.2      1.1     Savings                     Investment
Total debtlGOP                                ..      ..      64.8     61.6
Total debt service/exports                   ..       ..       2.3
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..       ..    102.7
Present value of debtlexports                ..       ..    146.0
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  ,,     3.7      4.4       5.4       5.9                  Yemen, Rep.
GNP per capita                      ..    -1.5    -7.8         1.6      2.5                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..     8.5    -0.2        9.7      2.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment I%)
I% of GDP)                                                                      30
Agriculture                                  ..       ..      17.6     17.6
Industry                                     ..       ..      48,8     48.8    20
Manufacturing                               ..      ,.      11.4      11.4    10
Services                                      ..      ..      33.6     33.6
Private consumption                          ..       ..      70.0     68.8    .10    92   93   94   95   96   97
General government consumption                                14.5     18.1                     GDI      0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                                 50.3     54.5                    GDI      GDP
(average annualgrowth  1978.86  1987-97  1996  1997  Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  ..      4.8       1.7      2.2    40
Industry                                      .      6.3       9.5      2.0
Manufacturing                               ,,     0.9      10.5       2.0    20
Services                                      ..     1.1       2.4      10.9
Private consumption                          ..      1.2       68       7.6            9    93   9        '    \  9'7
General government consumption                .      1.0       9.4     36.6
Gross domestic investment                    ,,    11.9       24.1     -6.8   -20
Imports of goods and services                 ..     3.8      35.1     21.8                  Exports   - -mports
Gross national product                        ..     2.0      4.7       4.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missingr, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                            Page 61
Republic of Yemen                                                                                                                 ANNEX 13
Second Public Works Project                                                                                                       page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    t1986       1996     1997   isnitr %
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                   17.3       0.5    40
Implicit GDP deflator                                             39 4       3.4
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                                   17.5      32.4             92    93    94    9      95   97
Current budget balance                                            -6.6      -4.9              - GDP denator   O'CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           -7.9      -6 0
TRADE                                                                                                _
1976     1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ mrillions)I
Total exports (fob)                                              2,218     2.292     3.00
Crude oil (government share)                                     904     1,117
Crude oil (companies' share)                                   1.025       890     2500 +
Manufactures                                                     161       161
Total imports (cif)                                              2,571     2,678
Food                                                             906        00              I
Fuel and energy                                                  198       251
Capital goods                                                     95        89 
91  92  93  94   9596   97
Export price index (1995=100)                                     119       111
Import price index (1995=100)                                      76        67                [3 Ex,orts     M Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                          156      165
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976      1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                    2,409     2,484     20-
Imports of goods and services                                    2,821    2.966
Resource balance                                                  -412      482      rj
Net income                                                        -841     -662       0t=
Net current transfers                                            1,8        ,1                  .P        94  94   96   97
Current account balance                                           -70       170
.204
F inancing items (net)                                            338       200
Changes in net reserves                                          -269      -370    .30 l
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, localMUSS)                                 128.2    131.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          535    3,881       3.309     3,353
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0                      G 120
IDA                                          38      407        893       934
Total debt service                                                                          F 84  ..  Compo   tot R    in34
IBRO                                          0         0         0         0
IDA                                           0         5        15        16                 _       U
Composition of net resource flows
Officialgrants                              322       146       116
Official creditors                           98       162       106         .. 
Private creditors                             -1      129         0                    E 11
Foreign direct investment                     0         6       100
Portfolio equity                              0         0         0                                             546
World Bank program
Commitments                                            ..       207       149      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                26        47        95        89      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                          0         1         9        10      C * IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                    26        45        86        79                                            -.11
Interest payments                             0         4         6         7
Net transfers                                26        42        80        72
Development Economics                                                                                                   10/1/98



IBRD 29963
42'              43                44'               45'                46'               47'              4R0 49. UO                                             51                52'               53              ,540                 if-
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                                                                    '' -fd-,
SECOND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT                                                                       S A U D I  A R A B I A
SUBPROJECTS DISTRIBUTION
- _-   _ \<                                       nee  ol   h
SUBPROJECTS:
-19-.    EDUCATION                                                                                                                                          _-
*    HEALTH                                                                              - _             j         
*    WATER                                                                _  _                                              \
SANITATION__
A  ROADS                                                                                                                                           O M A N
3    PUBLIC BUILDING                                      /
o    SOCIAL AFFAIRS                                    /                                           !
93  PROVINCE CENTERS                               /
NATIONAL CAPITAL                             /                                              I                                  *                                          17
.  ,  GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                         A                       ALMAHARA
I *    >                             -, - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                 \/      \
- '       -~~** ;i                                                                           ' -er,s                                                                         
17T*  v ,ADAH                                                                                        AV.>S  4                                                  /
,    \      ~~* Sovoda h    /     -                                              /                         
-.                                          I 2   _  r  ]   |    /                                                    I                                    ri:>Alf3hHah                                    16
* *.     *   . i                     AL-JAWF   .                      /           "                /
16                   HAPJAH. f                                                        /                                         HADRAMOUT
'  I A
a    **  **; CArn  ;                  o,_  pprziohrmtlgnmont  I/                                                                                                                                                          15' 
X      S0AmrNA   * A ,    *                                                   /  ,             
*SANA'A ~                   *8114ai6                                                       A 
k *P   SIr  '           .ARBSHASWA
1-so           H9DEIDAH ',                                                                                                                   A
S 13  *{ >.;  dAAI-'                                                                                               tMuikaUo                                                                                                14
'1,            I                   D*~ amarj       .    .  B'-E I        '
to             j                  1@i           l;\  /   led*/*,G                 
Y Ri''-   * *' AL-BE*tA-'                                             * ABYA                                                                                             GUF OFA E
14'  ((6                                 *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AlIBeidq.   f 
-7
''    A " * ''                    ABYAN
K   TAIZ .Triz  * /          *i
*/#ZS *   \          , Lahij        Inpboji6r
*43'                          / i '   .-.: ~ ~ LAHIJ  _                                                                                 2F 5S0  75  lO-ian                           AbdaIKuri
N \\                               ADEN                                                                                            25s  so  7s AELm                                                    Samho Doarwoh                     12'
t;  > s  ,I  w                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~ ~              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Abdlal KunrS6On
42y'9/      DJIBOUTI                                     A45                 46'                 47'                4t8'               49'                S-15                            Yn     52(                53- ynm)
I /   I   I        I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  I                  I                   l                  ,                   JANUART1A



