           Document of
         The World Bank




                                      Report No: 27440

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-31680)

               ON A

              CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.6 MILLION

              TO THE

        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

              FOR A

   SECOND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT




          December 24, 2003

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2003)

                                     Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial
                                              YR 1 = US$ 0.005397
                                             US$ 1 = YR 185.3

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1 to December 31




                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

PMU          :Project Management Unit
MIS          :Management Information System
NGO          :Non-Govermental Organization
CAS          :Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR         :Country Portfolio Performance Review
MOPIC        :Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
PWP-I:Public Works Project (the first project)
PWP-II       :Second Public Works Project (the Project)
SSR          :Staff Service Rule
MoP          :Manual of Procedures
SC           :Steering Committee




                                   Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
                                Country Director      Mahmood Ayub
                                  Sector Manager      Hedi Larbi
                                   Task Manager:      Ali Khamis

                                  YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
                                  RY-PUBLIC WORKS II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              27
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            29
Annex 10 Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      32

Project ID: P060132                                                  Project Name: RY-PUBLIC WORKS II
Team Leader: Ali Khamis                                              TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: December 24, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: RY-PUBLIC WORKS II                                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-31680
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (23%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (23%); Roads and highways (23%); General
                            education sector (23%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Water resource management
                            (P); Civic engagement, participation and community driven
                            development (P); Other financial and private sector development (P);
                            Social risk reduction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/15/1998                                     Effective: 03/03/1999                03/03/1999
     Appraisal: 10/24/1998                                         MTR: 02/19/2002                  02/19/2002
      Approval: 01/28/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND INTERNATIONAL
                                           COOPERATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Manager/Director: Mahmood A. Ayub                                      Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:                 Hedi Larbi                                     Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader at ICR:             Ali Khamis                                     A. Amir Al-Khafaji
ICR Primary Author:             Ali Khamis; Somin Mukherji


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the Project was to help mitigate the adverse effects of the economic
adjustment through poverty alleviation measures targeted to the country's poor communities.             These
measures included: (a) the creation of jobs; and (b) the provision of needed infrastructure to improve
services and environmental conditions. To ensure sustainability of these measures, community involvement
in project selection, preparation, and implementation was to be promoted, as was the development of local
contracting and consulting firms.

The objective was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1996 and the Government of
Yemen's First Five Year Plan (1996-2000) both of which focused on, amongst other issues, social
development by supporting social protection measures. In this respect, the main objective was consistent
with the poverty alleviation measures mentioned above, as it supported the efforts initiated by the
government to mitigate the impact of the adjustment program on those most likely to be affected. These
objectives are still relevant with respect to the current CAS of 2002. Also, through cost effective and
efficient management measures, the Project was well aligned to the main pillars of the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) - viz., developing human resources, improving infrastructure, achieving economic
growth and granting social protection. Thus, while the Project was extremely responsive to Borrower
circumstances and development priorities, it was also relevant to the latest CAS and the PRSP.

In addition to the above, the success in implementation of the first Public Works Project (the first project)
had encouraged both the Bank and the Government to support a follow on operation, to capitalize on the
success, experience, and momentum gained. Other positive indications included: (i) retaining the services
of the agency that executed the first project for another term; (ii) facilitating the continuation of donors'
support which was promising; and (iii) bidding documents were ready which meant that disbursement
would be possible immediately upon effectiveness. The experience in implementing the first project
reduced the risk of implementation and except for increased volume of activities, implementation was not
too demanding.

At the time of preparation, with unemployment rate close to 20 percent, real growth was almost stagnant
and the number of households living below the food poverty line was near 18 percent, generation of basic
infrastructure services (with high labor content) proved extremely effective as it significantly improved the
availability of basic services while generating short term employment for the poor. With an average cost of
US$60,822 per subproject, the reach of the project expanded to include more beneficiaries who
traditionally live in small, dispersed and isolated settlements. The expansive mandate of the Project to
cover water, education, health care, etc. enabled it to accommodate the priority needs of the target
communities.     The impact of these services on poor households proved to be both immediate and
cost-effective, since the overall cost of the infrastructure services delivered did not exceed US$15 per head.
As indicated in the Bank's annual review of 2000, the effectiveness of this measure in helping to mitigate
poverty in the short term was significant and, it concluded that, provision of access to basic services such
as clean water, improved living conditions more than employment generation.

Another feature of the Project design was the involvement of communities in subprojects selection,
preparation, and implementation. Upfront community participation facilitated the accommodation of local
needs and reduced the issues normally encountered with subprojects selection and implementation. Active
community involvement promoted a strong commitment of ownership which facilitated not only successful
completion but also continual community involvement in the future operation of subprojects.               For
subprojects in remote areas, the level of isolation of some of the beneficiary communities and the



                                                       - 2 -

government's inability to provide a sustained financial commitment to the future operations and
maintenance (O&M), close community involvement was crucial. Finally, community involvement also
served to reduce the overall costs associated with subproject preparation and implementation.

The continued development of small local contracting and consulting firms and individuals proved to be
beneficial and appropriate, and resulted in continued quality improvements. Apart from the financial
benefits, small contractors and engineers gained valuable experience from working with the Public Works
Program (PWP); this resulted in steady improvements in the quality of workmanship of the infrastructure
developed under the Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Project objectives were not revised

3.3 Original Components:

To achieve its objectives the project was to finance three components:

Component (a)-Community Infrastructure - (Appraisal estimate US$53.0 million). This component
comprised building of small-scale civil works in areas where the unemployment rate was above average.
On the whole, this was the major component of the Project and it fit well with the local labor market
environment, country geographical conditions, and dispersed site locations. The successful implementation
of this component was therefore central in achieving the development objectives of the Project. However,
during implementation, unfavorable SDR vs. US$ exchange rate resulted in reduction of IDA's contribution
and, as a result, total amount (US$) available for this component was less than as estimated during
appraisal. Actual cost of this component at the end of the Project was US$52.12 million.

Component (b)-Technical Assistance/Consultant Services- (Appraisal estimate US$4.0 million). This
component provided necessary financing for consultancy services, mainly for project preparation, design
and implementation of the small scale civil works included under component (a) above. As explained
earlier, budgetary provisions were revised following decreased availability of US$ from the Credit.
Adjustments were also necessary because of dispersed locations of subprojects making it difficult to
package a large number of supervision contracts for subprojects at different locations. As a result of these
revisions/adjustments, actual cost of this component at the end of the Project was US$3.76 million.

Component (c)-Project Management- (Appraisal estimate US$3.0 million). This component covered the
expenses of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and was crucial in ensuring satisfactory implementation
of the Project. At the end of the Project, total cost of this component was about US$3.21 million including
IDA contribution of about US$2.39 million. The management cost as a percentage of the overall cost was
close to 2.8 percent which is on the lower side of international standard.

As mentioned earlier, the Project was designed to facilitate the government attract additional funding from
the donor community and other financing agencies.            The government was remarkably successful in
attracting about US$52.0 million from the donor community. Of this, as of the end of October 2003, total
of about US$33.8 was already disbursed as parallel financing for works similar to component (a). The
break-down of this parallel financing (by source) is shown in Table-1 below:




                                                      - 3 -

                                          CONFINANCING (PARALLEL)
                  Financing                 OPEC         USA        Dutch    French       Italian Total
                  Est. At appraisal           8.2        19.6        22.0        1.6        0.6   25.0
                  Disbursed                   5.9        14.6        12.3        0.4        0.6   33.8

                       Table -1: Break-down of the Project financing (in US$ millions) by source


3.4 Revised Components:

The Project components were not revised. At the time of preparation, it was envisaged that financing of
furniture for schools built under the Project (and the first project) would be made available by the Second
Social Fund for Development Project (SFD-II). Due to the shortage of funds, the SFD-II was unable to
provide the necessary funds and legal agreements of the Project had to be amended to include the financing
of school furniture.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Project was not reviewed by QAG at entry. The ICR rates the quality at entry as satisfactory. Some
of the important features on which this rating is based are highlighted below:

The overall objective of the Project was consistent with the country's development priorities and the CAS.
A basic project design feature was the involvement of key stakeholders and the communities in subproject
identification, selection, preparation and implementation.         This facilitated successful completion and
resulted in strong ownership of the subprojects delivered. The subproject selection criteria were designed to
ensure that only cost effective subprojects were selected for implementation. Also, as the investment
programs were already approved and bidding documents finalized, the Project was well prepared for
implementation immediately after effectiveness. Critical risks were adequately addressed at the time of
appraisal and mitigative measures adopted - throughout implementation, the Project was never at risk.

Performance indicators established during appraisal were calculated based on actual data collected under
the first project. As such, these were more realistic and monitorable compared with those that were set for
the first project.

Finally, implementation of small scale infrastructure projects suited well with the overall local needs and
conditions. In accordance with the agreements reached between the Bank and the GOY, work contracts
were maintained below the prior threshold of US$0.20 million. This facilitated minimum interventions
from special interest groups and provided greater opportunities for the nascent construction industry to
develop and generate employment for local unskilled workers.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The ICR rates the outcome of the Project as highly satisfactory.         On the efficacy dimension, baring a few
minor shortcomings, the Project's impact (outcome and output) was significant (Annex-1). The few
shortcomings relate to ensuring total community participation and performance of the local
consulting/contracting industry. In both these aspects, Project impact has been outstanding and the room
for improvement as alluded to in subsequent paragraphs (para. 4.1(iii), 5.3), merely provides the PMU with
challenges to be overcome during the next operation (proposed PWP-III).




                                                      - 4 -

The overall rating of the key performance indicators was based on the findings of the Socioeconomic
Impact Assessment Study (Study) that was conducted towards the end of the Project. The Study team
benefited from the initial data collected by the PMU on each of the targeted communities at the start of
subproject implementation. The achievement of the outcomes is based on the Study that was conducted on
a representative sample population of 123 (out of 827) subprojects, of which 81 were completed and 42
were nearing completion. The sample size comprised 15% of the total population, selected at random and
distributed between ten governorates. The following criteria were used in selecting the subprojects -
poverty level, number of subproject types and community type. A summary of the Study findings is
included in Annex-8. Selective improvements in the key performance indicators are highlighted below:

(i) Improved poverty indicators, especially for women and children: The infrastructure subprojects
delivered by the Project contributed substantially towards poverty alleviation in the target areas and a
number of improved poverty indicators in the Study area are summarized as follows:

        enrollment rates for children increased by 141% for both basic and secondary education;
        vaccination against the six diseases increased by 113%;
        immunization against tetanus (women) increased by about 36%;
        immunization against hepatitis increased by about 20%; and
        child birth under medical care increased by more than 30%.

(ii) Improved access to basic infrastructure services:    Apart from the benefits in the education and health
sub-sectors mentioned above, the Study indicated that access provided by the various infrastructure
services in the Study areas resulted in the following improvements:

        pedestrians using newly built paved roads increased by more than 80%;
        vehicles using newly built paved roads increased by more than 75%;
        number of trainees in social centers increased by 115%;
        about 50% of households connected to the water supply network of which close to 30% were
         provided with public stand taps; and
        about 370 households were connected to a sewage network (in the study area).

Close to 5000 communities corresponding to more than 3.1 million people are benefiting today from the
basic infrastructure services delivered by the Project. Improved access has reduced the time and effort
(such as bringing in water from long distances across difficult terrains) usually taken to reach the nearest
service provider. These resulted in improved living conditions of the beneficiaries and, in particular,
women and children.


(iii) Level of community involvement: Community participation was strengthened. On subprojects
selection, about 60 percent of the population interviewed confirmed their direct participation, 26 percent
reported that subprojects were selected by their Sheiks and 12 percent indicated that subprojects were
initiated/selected by their representatives in the parliament. At the time of preparation, required level of
community contribution was set at 5% of subproject cost. By the end of Project, this reached a level of
about 9.6% (US$5.68 million) of the total cost of infrastructure services built. Except for building of
schools, mobilization of community contributions was sometimes time consuming and, in many instances,
led to unexpected delays in starting up the implementation process. Community contributions in cash were
used primarily to procure classroom furniture for the schools built under the Project.




                                                     - 5 -

The Study concluded that community involvement at the various subprojects cycle contributed to
strengthening of social ties and increasing community awareness of their existing problems and needs. It
improved their capacity and understanding about issues like management of public institutions. Through
formation of various committees, communities had become more involved in accomplishing various tasks
such as collecting community contributions, following up on the implementation progress, ensuring
availability of future funding for O&M expenses, and helping resolve implementation issues.

(iv) Overall development of local consulting and contracting firms. As opportunities were provided, local
consulting firms/individuals benefited professionally and financially from the Project. About 90 percent of
the sample population confirmed that they had gained considerable experience from working with the
Project. In addition to those contracted, a substantial number of site supervisors/technicians had benefited
indirectly as part of the consultants' teams. Financially, monthly income of the consultants had increased
by about 240 percent. Similarly, contractors had benefited from the Project both - professionally and
financially. About 90 percent of the contractors confirmed professional advancements while 66 percent
indicated healthy financial return.

4.2 Outputs by components:

As appraised, the Project had three components and the ICR rates the output of these components as highly
satisfactory. Overall, the output attained were more than what was envisaged. The status of the individual
components is described below:

(i) Creation of jobs: Against an appraisal estimates of creating 95,000 person-months (and due to reduced
availability of funds, revised to 85,313 person months during the mid-term review), a total of about 94,883
person months of direct labor was generated. Other relevant indicators were also met satisfactorily as
confirmed by some of the key indicators. Distribution of jobs between unskilled to skilled laborers was 60
percent as compared to a target of 54 percent; cost of investment to create a person-month of employment -
US$490 vs. US$515 as estimated during appraisal; and the average labor content of each subproject built
was 33 percent compared to 28 percent as envisaged during preparation.             On generating permanent
employment, excluding transfer of civil servants, 43 new job openings were created in the 81 completed
facilities covered under the Study.

(ii) Cost effective provision of needed infrastructure services: The target was to deliver cost-effective
infrastructure services comprising 800-900 subprojects. Despite reduction in availability of US$ (because
of adverse exchange rate between SDR and US$), 827 subprojects were delivered at a total cost of about
US$50.30 million. Thus, the average cost of subprojects was US$60,822; this compares well with the
average cost of US$60,000 as estimated at appraisal. As compared to similar subprojects delivered by
individual line ministries, the unit rates of the subprojects were low and very competitive. The cost per
square meter of schools built by the Project was around US$139 and this compares favorably with US$
250 and above for similar facility built by the Ministry of Education. Despite these lower rates, quality of
workmanship was not adversely affected mainly because of: (i) strict supervision and monitoring of the
civil works construction; (ii) application of transparent and speedy procurement procedures, efficient
contract management, and quick payment procedures; and (iii) improved performance over time of both
contractors and consulting firms working with the Project. The reduction in the unit rate (which reached in
most cases to 30% or more) combined with the increased amount of labor content (about 33%) enabled the
Project to deliver the target number of basic infrastructure services while generating short term employment
opportunities. Distribution of the subprojects on a sectoral basis is shown in Table-2 below.




                                                      - 6 -

    Sector        1999        2000      2001        2002       2003            Total      US$        %
Education          151        103        200          61          9             524      26.14      57.3
Health              9          10        22           7           0             48        2.24       4.9
Water               18         38        60           13          3             132       6.51      14.3
Sanitation          9          5          5           0           0             19        1.90       4.2
Roads/paving        4          11         9           8           2             34        3.60       8.0
Agriculture         1          4         11           5           0             21        1.55       3.4
General/Env.        2          2          4           0          16             24        1.22       2.7
Social              10         3          9           3           0             25        2.48       5.4
         Total     204        176        320          97         30             827       45.64      100
                                   Table-2. Distribution of subprojects by sectors


(iii) Development of small scale contracting and consulting firms: The target was to develop small-scale
consulting and contracting industry and, at the time of preparation, it was envisaged that about 100
contractors and 150 consulting engineering firms would be used for project implementation. Against this
target, a total of 478 contractors were used which is significantly higher than the target set. However, for
the consulting services, a total of only ten consulting firms and 370 self-employed individual consultants
were engaged by the PMU. Although the aggregate number of consultancy assignments (380) were far
greater than the target set (150), the number of engineering firms engaged was significantly lower than the
appraisal estimate of 150. This anomaly was noted during preparation of the ICR which concludes that the
target of 150 for consulting firms was unrealistic; the total number of engineering consulting firms in
Yemen is far less than 150 and current socioeconomic conditions do not encourage such a rapid growth of
this industry.    Additionally, most line ministries/agencies have in-house engineering departments that
provide necessary consulting/advisory services.

(iv) Improved Project Management: Support to this component was meant to strengthen the Project
Management. The PMU's capacity has improved remarkably as it was able to manage the sudden increase
in workload from US$30.00 million under the first project to more than US$100.00 million under the
Project including the financing made available by the other donors. To cope with the expanded workload
and complete them on time, the PMU had to increase its disbursement capacity from an average of US$1.2
million per month prevailing at the time of project preparation to US$3.2 million at the time of project
completion without any corresponding increase in staff strength.              Except for retaining a community
development specialist, most staffing needs were met through the use of long term consultants (LTC). This
approach proved to be extremely practical and cost-effective and provided adequate flexibility and less
administrative burden on the management of the PMUs. Similarly, the extensive and continuous upgrading
of the Management Information System (MIS) proved to be cost-effective.                  Missing environmental
assessment reports for the sub-projects delivered under the first project and this Project for example
(Investment Programs 1 to 4) were retroactively produced based on which measures were carried out to
mitigate any possible adverse impact on the environment. The overall cost for managing the Project was
within the low range of international standard of about 2.8 percent.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The appraisal report rightly argued that most of the subprojects do not have an easily quantifiable benefit
stream and, therefore, are better suited for a cost-effectiveness analysis.           The latter relied on the
eligibility/selection criteria designed to screen subprojects in various sectors. The analysis was then
narrowed to water and sewerage subprojects (representing 15% of the subprojects) some of which were to
be operated by the water utility (NWSA). The analysis argued that, on the basis of some assumptions



                                                       - 7 -

about one "typical" water scheme, that one would expect the returns to be high and robust.

The ICR considers that a better approach is provided in the recently completed Study (Annex-8) which
analyzed a sample of several subprojects in several sectors and assessed the improvement of services
delivery as a result of the Project. The Study has documented evidence of the significant impact that the
Project had in improving the quality of lives of the people, particularly the poor. At the aggregate level,
women and girls have been the primary beneficiaries of the improved infrastructure and services delivery
(particularly in the water, health and education sub-sectors) that were created under the Project. The
economic analysis in Annex-3 of this report provides further evidence with regard to cost effectiveness in
school construction.

Project impact on the improvement of services delivery

The Project provided infrastructure services throughout the country, mostly in areas where these facilities
did not exist. For the variety and geographical spread of sub-projects, the evaluation of the net benefits of
the entire Project would be a costly undertaking. However, a sample of about 123 subprojects in various
sectors was recently evaluated to assess the impact of the Project. The distribution of subprojects by
sub-sectors is shown below:

                                                     New         Addition/        Rehabilitation      Total
      Sub-sectors                                                Extension
      Health                                          5              3                                  8
      Education                                       51             26                   3            80
      Water supply                                    13             6                    1            20
      Sanitation                                      3                                                 3
      Road paving                                     4              1                                  5
      Agriculture                                     2              1                                  3
      Other social works                              3                                   1             4
      Total                                           81             37                   5            123
     Source: Second Public Works Project - Socio-Economic Assessment-Draft Final Report, September 2003

The Study identifies several beneficial impacts on the beneficiary communities. These include: (a)
Reduction in the cost of services (including time and cost to access to services); (b) Improvements in the
quality of services; and (c) Improvements in the environment. These are detailed below:

a) Reduction in the cost of services (including time and cost of access to services)
The Study reveals that the distance between the village and the service facility (school, health center, water
facility, etc.) which was about 17 km before the project was reduced, on average, to about 4.5 km. This
has led to a reduction in time spent to access these services. This time saving has benefited women in
particular because they were mostly in charge of getting water and taking children to health facilities and
also children going to schools. The time gained is being put to more profitable pursuits (animal husbandry,
household chores, the education of children, etc.).

Furthermore, the cost to access basic services has been reduced which allows poor people to allocate the
money thus saved to other higher value uses. The time saving and the reduction in the cost of access to
services both contribute to poverty reduction.




                                                        - 8 -

b) Improvement of service quality
In education for example, the number and quality of educational facilities has improved. Female and male
enrollments increased by about 182% and 113%, respectively, compared to the situation that prevailed
before the Project was implemented. Class density in basic and secondary education has decreased by
about 22% and 10%, respectively. In addition, the availability of educational equipment has vastly
increased (chairs, desks, laboratory equipment, etc.). The average student to teacher ratio has decreased
from 28 to 27.

In the health sector, there has been, over the sample that has been examined, an increase of about 217% in
the number of rooms. Some facilities, such as those providing simple surgery, have increased by more than
50%. This has led to a safer baby delivery and enlarged vaccinations programs particularly for children.
This is expected to result in the reduction of diseases in the future and to a healthier and more productive
population.

All other sectors analyzed show the same improvement in quality of service. In addition to education and
health, water supply and sanitation and rural roads have provided much improvement in the life of the poor
in Yemen in terms of time saved, health benefits and improvements in quality of daily life.

c) Improvements in the environment
The quantity and quality of drinking water was improved following the implementation of the Project. The
increase in the average household water consumption from about 110 liters/day to about 163 liters/day led
to an improvement in personal and home cleanliness. Sanitation projects (and paved roads) improved the
environment through the drainage of storm water thereby diminishing or eliminating breeding grounds for
mosquito and flies, prevented soil erosion and water contamination. Health statistics confirm the reduction
in the number of water borne diseases (malaria, schistosomiasis, typhoid, diarrhea, skin and eye diseases
and respiratory diseases).

The benefits of the program are understated because the benefits of additional spin-offs of the project have
not been taken into account. These benefits include:

        building the capacity of communities to manage their own affairs, strengthening local governments
         and other institutions;
        driving down the cost of construction of schools, health facilities and rural roads through
         competition;
        empowering women - women have greatly benefited from both the first project and the Project
         through the construction of schools, health facilities and water supply schemes. They were saved
         time and drudgery and improved their health and education; and
        Developing private contracting capacities.

Compared to other alternatives such as direct transfers, the Project has been an efficient instrument in
accomplishing the Project objectives. The Project has been designed to enhance cost-effectiveness and
sustainability.  Efficiency gains, due to increased relevance of investment decisions, arise from the
decentralized decision making and implementation of sub-projects. Experience shows that communities
generally select investments that have high rates of return, such as water supply schemes, building and
rehabilitation of roads and schools, etc. In addition, decentralization of decision making not only creates
incentives to keep investment costs low and the quality of service delivery high, it also increases the
likelihood of investment sustainability. The design simplicity has encouraged participation by poorer



                                                    - 9 -

communities and further strengthened sustainability.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

An economic and financial analysis was conducted on a typical water supply scheme financed by the
Project. The analysis confirms the results obtained under the first project on financial viability of the water
supply schemes managed by NWSA. The summary results are shown in the table below and details are
included in Annex-3:

                                                     NPV             IRR
                             Economic                747,000         20%
                             Financial               400,000         17%


4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact (IDI) on targeted communities, the local consulting/contracting
industry and the sector ministries was substantial. As indicated earlier (paras. 4.1 and 4.2), the impact on
targeted communities was significant as it facilitated creation of strong bondage between community
members towards pursuing a common goal.                 Also, through active participation and increased
responsibilities in most aspects of subproject processing cycle, communities gained practical experience in
being able to articulate their needs and develop skills in ensuring that their needs were met satisfactorily.
Through the experience gained in successful completion of two similar projects, the PMU has evolved as a
stronger entity capable of satisfactory implementation of small infrastructure projects spread all over the
country.

Local consultants and contractors acquired additional capacity through direct interaction with the PMU and
also through formal and informal training sessions organized periodically. The impact on the PMU was
modest and limited to reinforcing the capacity already developed during implementation of the first project.
The PMU staff also gained good experience that helped them develop professionally.

For implementation of similar small sized infrastructure projects, the PWP model could easily be
considered for adoption by the government, and the public sector, in particular. The impact on the sector
ministries was indirect yet significant. Line ministries are now encouraged by the success of the PWP and
are adopting the PWP model as an example of best practice.

Under a separate financing source (the Netherlands), the PMU carried out a capacity building program for
14 districts (nascent decentralized local governments) from six governorates. The main focus of the
program (Participatory District Development Plan (PDDP)) was to help the participating districts develop
their skills to prepare their own development and investment plans. With a total cost of about US$0.40
million, assisted by an international consultant, it took the PMU six months to complete the program. The
outputs of the program were to prepare: (a) PDDPs for the 14 participating districts; (b) a national PDDP
manual; and (c) skills development for 120 individuals to be able to use the PDDP manual.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Implementation impetus was disrupted when a number of contractors were affected by a steep increase in



                                                      - 10 -

the price of reinforcement steel from US$300 per ton to US$500 in early 2001. As a result, construction
activities in a number of subproject sites slowed for some time before resuming back to their normal pace.
Through invoking provisions of contractual agreements (no price escalation clause for small-scale
contracts), the problem was handled effectively by the PMU and the contractors' demands of price increase
were not entertained. Thus, disruption of the workflow that is usually caused by similar problems was
avoided.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

None

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

During finalization of the ICR, it was noted that 24 subprojects, excluding eight schools completed in the
middle of the school year (expected to be functional starting January 2004), experienced delays in start-up
mainly due to non-availability of necessary equipment and furniture. Based on the latest information
available, procurement of these has already been initiated by the various agencies and delivery is expected
soon. This was not supposed to happen if rigorous screening procedures were applied at the subproject
selection stage. In case any of these subprojects remained idle by the time the proposed PWP-III is
effective, an operational plan should be provided by the PMU to be used as the basis to monitor the status
of these subprojects during implementation of the proposed PWP-III.

Quality of workmanship has indeed improved under the Project, but there is still room for further
improvements. This can be better achieved by introducing qualifying criteria in the bidding documents that
would help minimize the incidents of contracts being awarded to non-performing contractors and consulting
firms/ individuals.

Outcome/achievement of objective should be identifiable through the adoption of quantifiable measures.
This can be better achieved by establishing appropriate base-line data on the targeted communities before a
subproject is implemented. The data for major indicators, can be collected by a joint effort between the
communities and the PMU and should be organized in a manner that is easy to interpret.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The overall Project cost was US$59.1 million of which US$50.30 million was for civil works, US$3.76
million for technical assistance, US$3.21 million for project management and US$1.82 million for school
furniture. These amounts were shared by IDA (US$46.46 million), the Government (US$6.95million), and
communities (US$5.68 million). The later figure (community contribution) includes contribution in cash
US$0.80 million, and the remaining in-kind and labor. There were no instances of cost over-runs and
counterpart funding was provided regularly on an agreed basis. On the whole, the financing arrangements
were satisfactory.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The overall sustainability rating of the achievements made is considered likely.          Despite the few
shortcomings as indicated in para 5.2, all physical infrastructure built have been handed over to the c
ommunities which have been involved from early stages of identification, preparation, design and somewhat
of an oversight during implementation.       Communities had to compete amongst themselves for their


                                                    - 11 -

subprojects - only 827 subprojects were ultimately selected out of 8,000. And, since the communities are
required to share part of subproject costs, the issue of ownership is easily addressed. For schools and
health centers, the selection criteria called for confirmed commitments from the Government on provision
of necessary resources for future operations and maintenance (O&M) of the facilities developed. Finally,
as communities get more and more empowered and involved in the process of securing funding needed for
future O&M (of their newly owned facilities), the ICR justifiably considers the sustainability of
subprojects, in general, as likely.

Sustainability of completed subprojects has been confirmed through site visits during regular bank
supervision missions. During such missions, it has been noted that the maintenance performance of
individual facilities differ from one another and these are dependent on the management of individual
facilities built. There are however very few instances where sustainability remains as an issue. Water
wells drilled by communities are generally not backed by adequate hydro-geological studies; some of these
became dry soon after investments were made and, in a few instances, the well water became brackish.
Such instances and in cases of financing of costly repairs of mechanical spares, puts the communities in
difficult situation. The PMU needs to put in additional effort in assisting the communities so that such
instances can be avoided.

On the institutional side, the Project has had a significant impact on capacity building of the construction
and consulting industry. As such, sustainability rating of the capacity building effort is considered as
substantial.     Throughout the implementation period, the PMU has continuously nurtured the
consulting/constructing industry through carrying out of periodic workshops and training sessions followed
by opportunities to perform through implementation of contracts in a timely and satisfactory manner. With
the solid experience in building small-scale infrastructure schemes, it is envisaged that this sector is well
prepared to take part in the country's construction sector which is poised for significant growth in the near
future. As a part of the entire process, the individuals in the PMU have also developed. The sustainability
of the institutional aspects of the communities is difficult to assess but the overall impact as reported in the
Study is very positive. Finally, as mentioned earlier, the IDI on sector ministries is indirect yet significant.
The PWP has demonstrated best practice methods of implementing small infrastructure projects. With the
passage of time, it is envisaged that the sectoral ministries will gradually align themselves with the more
cost effective and efficient manner in which the PWP has implemented over 2000 small infrastructure
projects.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

All the subprojects delivered were handed over immediately upon completion to the communities/relevant
line ministries and/or their local branch offices. Subprojects in the water and sanitation are the exceptions.
Subprojects in rural water were handed over to the water user associations at the community level whereas
those in the secondary cities were handed over to the branch offices of the National Water and Sanitation
Authority (NWSA). The PMU continues to monitor the satisfactory operation of completed subprojects
for a few years after their formal hand-over. In general, their findings are satisfactory.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Project was a natural continuation of the first Project which had 18 months to complete when the
Project was identified in May 1998. Project preparation had appropriately taken into account lessons
learned from the first project and as a result, the selection criteria used was more effective. The excellent


                                                     - 12 -

relationship developed with the Borrower, facilitated easy resolution of any differences during project
processing. Any differences in opinions were resolved through participatory dialogue with a matured
implementing agency. By the time of effectiveness, bidding documents for the first years' investment
program were finalized and the Project was ready for implementation. The Bank performance during the
lending stage was thus highly satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The Project was implemented in 42 months, as planned. During this period, the implementation was
generally smooth except for minor problems which the Bank Task Team and the PMU managed to
overcome without any adverse impact on the outcome. Some of the issues that the PMU had to encounter
included: (i)    initial delays in implementation due to difficulties faced in mobilizing community
contribution; (ii) sudden increase in the price of building materials in particular that of reinforcement steel;
(iii) delays encountered in supporting the PMU with the TOR for the impact assessment study. The
excellent cooperation between the Bank Task team and the PMU helped resolve all the difficulties
encountered.

Throughout the implementation period, the Project was supervised by Bank implementation teams on a
regular basis and implementation progress reported adequately. Regular site visits were conducted and
issues on implementation, quality of workmanship, community participation/contribution etc., were
resolved through discussion with the PMU. Through discussions, a Post Project Environmental Impact
Assessment (PPIA) for all subprojects completed under the first project was also completed and mitigation
measures were designed and financed under the Project. Sufficient attention was given towards assessing
the development impact and a well documented socioeconomic impact assessment study was prepared
towards the end of the Project. The skill mix of the Bank Task Team was appropriate with significant
inputs from staff at the Country office.      In view of the above, the ICR rates the Bank's performance
during supervision as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above and the achievements attained by the Project, the overall performance of the Bank was
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

During the preparation stage, the Borrower demonstrated a strong sense of participation and commitment
which was instrumental in shortening the preparation phase to six months (usually 18-24 months). Against
the usual norm in Yemen of 6-14 months, it took only two months to declare the project effective after
Board approval. The transition of activities from the first project was effortless. In view of the above,
performance of the Borrower during preparation is considered highly satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Continuous guidance and support provided by the Government both at the policy and the operational level
proved to be instrumental in successful and timely implementation of the Project. Strict adherence of local
requirements and consistent application of transparent procurement procedures by the PMU helped it gain
the desired support from the government. In view of the above, the implementation performance of the
government was highly satisfactory.



                                                    - 13 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Despite significant external pressures, the PMU maintained good working relationship with those directly
related with the Project, the business community (contractors and consultants), line ministries, NGOs and
the Bank. In a business environment where supply (construction and consulting) by far outnumber demand
(construction and consulting) opportunities, consistent application of rules and equal treatment has kept the
PMU out of difficult situations created mostly by unhappy suppliers who, over time have realized the
efficacy of transparent procedures that were adopted. In terms of complying with legal covenants, the
PMU never defaulted. Strong performance of the PMU also resulted in high quality supervision efforts by
the Bank Task team. Thus, the performance of the PMU can be considered highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

In general, the performance rating of the Borrower was highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


(i) Performance Indicators: Baseline data on the key performance indicators that help in measuring
outcome and outputs should be gathered for each area to be targeted by the Project. This will help first
establish good practices for regular and reliable data collection; provide baseline data against which
performance can be better measured and help reduce the cost for carrying out the usual impact assessment
studies;

(ii) Risk mitigation: Through confirmation of upstream and downstream activities, upfront mitigative
measures should be adopted. For water supply subprojects proper assessment of aquifer resources need to
be addressed; for wastewater/sanitation subprojects, existence of downstream facilities (wastewater
treatment facilities or other appropriate disposal facilities) should be verified.

(iii) Strengthening of M&E: An effective MIS system on monitoring M&E is already in place. The
systems and procedures developed for monitoring, evaluation and control will need to be expanded further
to evaluate the periodic social impact and beneficiary assessment surveys.

(iv) Environmental mitigation: During subproject selection, strict screening of environmental impacts is
necessary which will also determine investment needs to provide appropriate mitigation measures.

(v) Sustainability through: (a) Financing - In order to ensure sustainability, subproject selection should be
based on confirmation of adequate sources of funds needed from government's budgetary allocation for
operations and maintenance of completed facilities.          Also, in cases where functioning of completed
infrastructure is dependent upon external support (other agencies, charitable trusts providing equipment,
furniture etc.), necessary confirmation should be sought prior to start of implementation; (b) Community
participation - community involvement is crucial in subproject identification and preparation and in
securing community contribution in cash or kind. This helps build a sense of ownership which provides
additional assurance on sustainability for future operations and maintenance.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                     - 14 -

- 15 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Draft Final report for Socio -Economic Impact Assessment - A Study for Assessing Project Impact on
Poverty Reduction, Employment and Community livelihood - Study conducted by Dr. Ali Kasim Ismail
Al-Baseir, National Socio-Economic Consultants, Yemen




                                                 - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Outcome / Impact Indicators:

                   Indicator/Matrix                    Units         Appraisal estimate/         Actual/Latest    Variance %
                                                                      Before the Project           Estimate
Indicators used to measure performance in attaining
this objective include:
(a)Improvement in poverty indicators speciall for
women and children

Education:
Increased enrollments in basic and secondary          Number               10900                    26317             141
education

Health:
(i) Vaccination against the six diseases (Children)   Number                 728                    1551              113
(ii) Immunization against:
    - Tetanus (Women)                                 Number                 350                     475              35
    - Hepatitis (All people)                          Number                 678                     812              20

Water:
Household connections                                Percentage             12.5                     50.0             300

Improved access:
Distance reduced (average)                              km                 17.34                    12.81             26
Time decreased                                        minute                 230                     170              57
Transport cost reduced                                 YER                  1648                     659              40
(b)Improved access to basic infrastructure services

Education: increase in classrooms                     Number                 367                     825            124

Health: increase in rooms                             Number                 29                       92            217

Water:
Increase in reservoir capacity                          cum                 2193                    18636           750
Increase in distribution network                      meter run            22105                   119092           439

Roads:
Users increased by                                    Number                6128                    10750            80
Vehicles increased by                                 Number                 374                     680             75
(c)Level of community participation (in subproject   Percentage         Not assessed                  60             60
selection
Note: The above figures relate to the Sample population of the Study area.

 Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                        Units           Appraisal estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate         Variance %
Indicators used to measure
performance in attaining
this objective include the
number of:
I(a) Job creation in                Person-months           90000-95000                92000                    0.0
person-months
(b) Subprojects delivered              Number                 800-900                    827                    0.0
In(c) Development of local:
텰onsulting firms and
individuals                            Number                  150                   10 (firms) +                155
톁mall scale contractors                                                           370(individuals)
                                       Number                  100                      480                      370
Note: The above figures relate to the entire Project




                                                             - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Community Infrastructure                                    53.00          52.12             94.5
Technical Assistance                                         4.00            3.76            93.3
Project Management                                           3.00            3.21            79.7

Total Baseline Cost                                         60.00          59.09
                        Total Project Costs                 60.00          59.09
                  Total Financing Required                  60.00          59.09


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             53.00         0.00         0.00         53.00
                                  (0.00)          (43.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (43.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.50         0.00          0.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)       (0.50)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         4.00         0.00          4.00
Design and                        (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.00)         (0.00)       (4.00)
Supervision+Training+Oth
er studies
4.Operating expenses              0.00              0.00         2.50         0.00          2.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.50)         (0.00)       (2.50)

5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00             53.00         7.00         0.00         60.00
                                  (0.00)          (43.00)      (7.00)         (0.00)      (50.00)




                                                - 18 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              50.30              0.00             0.00             50.30
                                           (0.00)            (39.31)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (39.31)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.26             0.00              0.26
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.26)            (0.00)           (0.26)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              3.76             0.00              3.76
   Design and                              (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.76)            (0.00)           (3.76)
   Supervision+Training+Oth
   er studies
   4.Operating expenses                     0.00               0.00              2.95             0.00              2.95
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.13)            (0.00)           (2.13)

   5. Miscellaneous                         1.82               0.00              0.00             0.00              1.82
                                           (1.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               1.82              50.30              6.97             0.00             59.09
                                           (1.00)            (39.31)            (6.15)            (0.00)           (46.46)
  Note: Goods and Equipment totalling US$0.26 million was procured for the PMU and considered as a part of PMU
  cost.
    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1.Civil Works                  43.00        10.00         0.00       39.31         6.95       4.04       91.4      69.5      0.0
2.Goods & Equipment             0.50         0.00         0.00        0.26         0.00       0.00       52.0      0.0       0.0
2.A Furniture                   0.00         0.00         0.00        1.00         0.00       0.82        0.0      0.0       0.0
3.Consultancy Services          4.00         0.00         0.00        3.76         0.00       0.00       94.0      0.0       0.0
4.Operating Cost                2.50         0.00         0.00        2.13         0.00       0.82       85.2      0.0       0.0

  Note: Goods and Equipment totalling US$0.26 million was procured for the PMU and considered as a part of PMU
  cost.




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


1.      The project, like any poverty alleviation scheme, can be thought as having both transfer benefits
and stabilization benefits to the poor. The transfer benefits can be both direct and indirect. The former
comprises the gross benefit to poor workers less any cost they incur in participating, while the latter
includes the share of the poor in the extra income generated by the scheme's output (i.e. the assets created
by the project), and any other second-round effects on income from other sources.

2.      The project also generates significant but difficult to measure positive externalities such as
improved health, better education and enhanced competition in the construction industry.

Transfer Benefits

3.      Direct Transfer: The direct transfer benefit is equal to the wage rate, net of any costs of
participation incurred by the worker. In Yemen, where there is a very high unemployment rate, transfer
benefits help prevent a worsening of poverty.

4.      Indirect Transfer: The project also helps construct much needed infrastructure and produce goods
and services that poor families value. Some of the durable assets created by the project will generate
additional second-round employment benefits to the poor.

Stabilization Benefits

5.      The consumption-smoothing or stabilization benefits arise mainly from the scheme's effect on the
risk of a decrease in consumption by the poor, typically during agricultural slack seasons. The benefits of
any policy which allows those at the edge of survival to avoid down-side risks have a high social value.

Positive Externalities

6.      These include the following:

      The impact of improved access to social infrastructure (e.g. safe water, education and health
       facilities, etc.) has both short-term and long-term (generational) effects in terms of improved health,
       nutrition and labor productivity. They contribute to poverty reduction in the short term by
       improving the quality of rural life, and in the long-term, through a more productive work force, to
       overall economic development. Access to clean water, by improving the health of rural population
       and reducing the time spent (especially by women) in transporting water, will contribute to poverty
       alleviation and significant improvement in the productive and income generating capacity of the
       rural population.      The benefits of improved water supplies (quantity and quality) on health
       outcomes are well documented.          These health benefits will in turn result in improved labor
       productivity and income generating opportunities via a variety of direct and indirect channels.
       Better health also leads to direct improvements in schooling outcomes.
      the benefits of reduced risks to the poor due to consumption smoothing. The cost to the poor of
       certain coping mechanisms, such as indebtedness and distress, are reduced by the project. Extra
       income at a crucial time may well save a household from a far more costly adjustment (selling of
       land, house, over-indebtedness, withdrawing children from school and other social bads of a
       community under stress, etc).




                                                     - 20 -

The benefits of additional spin-offs of the project:

      building the capacity of communities to manage their own affairs, strengthen local governments and
       other institutions.
      driving down the cost of construction of schools, health facilities and rural roads through
       competition (see below for some cost comparisons in Yemen).
      empowering women. Women have greatly benefited from the first and the second public works
       projects through the construction of schools, health facilities and water supply schemes. They were
       saved time, drudgery and improved their health and education. The proposed project expands on
       these achievements; and
      Developing private contracting capacities.


 Driving down the cost of construction of schools, health facilities and roads across the country
                                        some comparisons (Yemeni Rials million)*

   Facilities                                                    General budget cost            2nd Public Works
                                                                                                       Project
   Schools
      12 classes                                                          40                            25.2
        6 classes                                                         18                            6.36
        3 classes                                                        12.17                          6.38
 Health Facilities
     Health center                                                        15.4                          7.13
     Health Unit                                                          6.5                           4.2
   Road paving          Rials/m2                                         5125                          3485
 * The quality of infrastructure is similar and built according to government standards of construction

This is further confirmed by data on school cost released recently for schools financed by the Social
Development Fund (SDF), the Public Works Project (PWP) and the Basic Education Expansion Project
(BEEP):




               Project                                           Average cost per
                                       School             Classroom             Student                M2
        SFD                             69837                 11347               301                  142
        PWP                             49293                 9562                189                  139
        BEEP                            55634                 12172               376                  158
       Source: Analysis of School Construction 1997-2003, The World Bank Sept 2003

The same situation prevails in the water and sanitation sector, especially in the rural areas where, for
example, a water supply scheme designed to supply 7,200 inhabitants would cost the Rural Water &
Sanitation Authority the equivalent of US$135,945 while the same project undertaken under the Public
Works Project would only cost US$120,246, a savings of about 13%. This becomes significant when one
considers the number of such schemes involved in the project.




                                                                    - 21 -

Economic and Financial Analysis of a typical Water Supply subproject managed by NWSA:

Hypotheses:
Average number of households             400
Capital cost                         140,000 US dollars
Operation & Maintenance                   5% of capital costs
cost of water produced                     10 YR/m3
Water tariff                               15 YR/m3
Water losses                             20%
Daily production                         430 m3/day
Average saving on Water from Tanker      150 YR/household/year


             Operation  Production Total     Sales       Avoided Total           Net Economic Net Fin.
     Invest. & Mainten. Costs     Costs                  costs (tanker)Benefits  Benefits     Benefits
  1   56000                           56000                                          -56000       -56000
  2   84000     7000      1569500   1660500                                0        -1660500     -1660500
  3             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
  4             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
  5             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
  6             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
  7             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
  8             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
  9             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 10             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 11             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 12             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 13             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 14             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 15             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 16             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 17             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 18             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 19             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
 20             7000      1569500   1576500    1883400    60000      1943400         366900       306900
                                                       Economic NPV                 746,719
                                                         Economic IRR                      20%
                                                         Financial NPV                                399,955
                                                         Financial IRR                                   17%




                                                - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                             No. of Persons and Specialty                       Performance Rating
                                                 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)                Implementation Development
                     Month/Year          Count               Specialty                             Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
                10/24/1998
                11/05/1998

 Supervision

                06/02/1999                            3    Operations Officer (1); Fin. Mgnt           S              S
                                                           Spec. (1); Projects Officer (1)
                11/20/1999                            3    TTL (1); Operations Officer (1);            S              S
                                                           Financial Analyst (1)
                06/10/2000                            3    TTL (1); Projects Officer (1);              S              S
                                                           Fin. Mgnt Spec. (1)
                12/10/2000                            3    Fin. Mgnt Spec(1); Projects                 S              S
                                                           Officer (1); TTL (1)
                05/07/2001                            3    Implementation Spec. (1); Fin.              S              S
                                                           Mgnt Spec. (1); TTL (1)
                02/19/2002                            5    Fin. Mgnt Spec. (1); TTL (1);              HS             HS
                                                           Implem. Spec.(1); Economist (1);
                                                           Environmental Spec. (1)
                11/04/2002                            3    TTL (1); Fin. Mgnt Spec. (1);              HS             HS
                                                           Implementation Spec. (1)
                05/28/2003                            3    TTL (1); Fin. Mgnt Spec.(1);               HS             HS
                                                           Implementation Spec. (1)

 ICR
                09/16/2003                           3      TTL (1) Sr. Financial                     HS             HS
                                                            Analyst (1) Sr.
                                                            Economist(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                               No. Staff weeks                       US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                    -                               133.0
  Supervision                                              -                               257.0
  ICR                                                      -                                 25.0
  Total                                                    -                               415.0
Note: (a) The total amount excludes US$8,000 made available through TF during project preparation; (b) The
amount indicated as of negotiations, includes amounts spent during Identification/Preparation.




                                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Project Appraisal Document
l Credit Agreement
l Project Supervision Reports
l Socio-Economic Beneficiary Impact Assessment
l ICR of Public Works Project-I
l ILICR of the Secondary, Tertiary and Rural Roads Project-Morocco
l Guidelines for Preparing ICRs issued June 1999




                                              - 26 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

I. Introduction

The intensive learning ICR requires that a beneficiary impact assessment be carried out and use the results
as part of the report. In compliance with requirement, a study was carried out between May-July 2003 to
find out the impact of the Project on different aspects of the lives of the beneficiaries targeted. The TOR
was prepared by both the Bank and the Project.

A sample size of 123 subprojects, 81 completed and 41 were under implementation, was randomly selected.
This number represents 15% of the total population of 826 subprojects distributed between ten
governorates.    The sector distribution of sample was 8 health, 80 education, 20 water, 3 sanitation, 5
roads, 3 agriculture, and 4 social. The sampled population were selected in accordance with the following
criteria:

l poverty level; high, medium, and low
l number of subproject types
l community type; urban, rural, remoteness



Nine survey teams consisted of 27 members carried out the field survey. Each team included three
members 2 male and one female. Prior to commencing the field works, the teams were trained for a
consistent and reliable data collection.

II. Summary of Findings

1. Number and quality of education facilities had improved. Enrollment rate in basic and secondary
    education has increased for both sex by (141%), total average increase was (181.5%) for females
    versus (113.4%) for males.
2. Improvement of education environment: Average of students' number to teachers declined from 28.4
    student/teacher to 27.7 student/teacher.
3. Health room facilities increased by 217.2% as compared with situation before implementation of
    sub-projects by PWP-2.
4. Various services provided by health facilities has increased and improved; clinical birth delivery
    increased by 31%, improvement for children immunization against six diseases increased by 113%,
    liver infection immunization increased by 19.8% and women's tetanus increased by 35.9%.
5. Health staff and assistants increased by 69.2% and 109.1%, respectively.
6. Water reservoir capacity increased by 749.8%, main and branches distribution network by (438.8%).
7. Physical and psychological burden on women have improved.
8. Easy access to water improved environment and health status considerably. 50.0% of families who
    benefited from water sub-projects connected to water network to houses, (28.6%) public stand tape.
    Family average water consumption increased from 110.0 to 162.5 liter/day (47.7%), community's
    daily average water supply quantities increased by 69%. Average roads area 111,303.5 square meters,
    supporting walls 575 cubic meters, and bridges 287 square meters.
9. Pedestrian and vehicles using the roads daily increased by 81.8% and 75.4%, respectively. Goods and
    commodities transport costs reduced by 1.2%. Various benefits gained: roads destruction, cut roads,
    elimination of sluggish water and mosquitoes, improved land and stores values surrounding the area.
    Training rooms increased by (51.7%), the rooms for other purposes (65.3%), number of trainers
    (5.9%), administrative staff (50%), and assistant staff (57.1%). This led to positive impact in


                                                   - 27 -

    improvement of services delivered by these social centers and increased number of female trainees by
    115.9%.
10. Capacity of agricultural reservoirs totaled 9000 cubic meters. Agricultural sub-projects will have a
    positive impact on beneficiaries, regarding harvesting of water to be utilized in drinking and irrigation
    purposes and recharge ground and surface water and improvement of water resource use.
11. Positive impacts of sanitation services on beneficiaries: Average distance between sanitation service
    and closest point to drinking source of water increased by (83.3%), which eliminated drinking water
    source contamination risks caused by wastes water, problems: prejudice affecting soil, air pollution,
    and unpleasant smell, diseases infection; Malaria, diarrhea, and skin diseases. Women and children
    benefited considerably from waste-water elimination. 370 houses connected to sanitation network
    registered in the sample.
12. Benefits to women: at the aggregate level, women and girls have been the primary beneficiaries of
   improved infrastructure and services in these sectors. Increased enrollment rates of girls were observed
   in rural areas. Women have also found employment opportunities in the sub-projects established by the
   PWP-2. At the sample level, female trainees trained at Women Productive Center increased by
   166.7%. 15% of them obtained job as trainers at the centers or governmental agencies. Some other,
   who own sewing machines weaving tools, worked at their homes as micro-scale handicraft projects,
   generated incomes (about 10,000 Yrs/month). 20 % of secondary jobs created were staffed by women
   as teachers, nurses, and cleaners. Enrollment in basic and secondary education significantly increased.
   Women and female children the most benefited groups of facilities especially, water, health, and
   education sub-projects.




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Under the auspices of the vice Prime Minister, Minister of Planning and International Cooperation a one
day workshop was carried out by the Project at Sheraton Sana'a. About 71 people were invited for the
workshop and 61 managed to be there. The workshop was attended by high ranking government officials
(for opening ceremony) and representatives from local communities, donor community, NGOs,
parliamentarians, and the Work Bank. Attendees' name and title are listed in Annex 9.1.

The main purpose of the workshop was to discuss, in addition to the findings of the beneficiary impact
assessment, the following topics (i) Community participation; (ii) Sustainability of subprojects and; (iii)
Policy and procedures adopted under the Project. The workshop was structured as follows:

Opening speech from the Project Manager
A speech from the vice Prime Minister, Minister of Planning
A speech from the World Bank delivered by Mr. Robert Hindle, Manager Yemen Country Office
A speech representing beneficiaries delivered by the General Manager of the Deft and Dum Sociaty
Beneficiary impact findings presented by the consultant who prepared the study
Discussions on the findings
Coffee Break
Lunch break
Group discussions on the strengths, weaknesses, and possible improvements:
Group 1 Community participation
Group 2 Sustainability of subprojects
Group 3 Policy and procedures adopted under the Project.

With the help of a moderator in each group (provided by the consultant) the three groups presented their
findings in a plenary as follows:

Group 1: Community participation

Strengths. It builds consensus to define priorities; nurtures the feelings of ownership for the project and the
need to protect it; plays a major role in the operation and maintenance

Weaknesses. Use of tribal status to influence in defining priorities; lack of confidence based on earlier
experience; existing traditions and habits which prohibit engaging community as a whole; difficulty in
understanding concept of community participation; difficulty in collecting community contribution to the
subproject cost

Suggestions for improvements. Introduce measures to minimize the use of power/influence in subproject
selection; awareness campaign to explain the importance of community participation in the decision making
process; reinforce woman role the participation process; reinforce the role of local councils in planning and
need assessment process; understanding of local government law by the communities

Group 2: Sustainability of subprojects (in rural areas)

Strengths.   strong sense of ownership; presence of leadership and prominent/ political figures; good
management with sufficient income would ensure sustainability of water projects

Weaknesses.     Lack of interest from local government in giving support to projects; interventions of



                                                      - 29 -

powerful people in running income generating subprojects; lack of administrative and technical skills at the
community level to run water projects

Suggested recommendations. Improve coordination between the Project and local councils and relevant
sectors/line ministries; more transparent in electing members to beneficiary committees involving local
councils; capacity building and training of the admin and technical to operate and run projects

Group 3: policies and procedures

Strengths. They help to ensure that a project is feasible (through availability of operation plan); the
allocation of 20% of the investment budget for subprojects in remote areas was appropriate; mandatory
community contribution was also a strength; carrying out field survey to verify the eligibilty and other
fudiciary aspects; established selection criteria; taking environment into account in the project design

Weaknesses.    Not enough supervisory staff in bigger subprojects; not providing enough budget for
financing studies in dam projects; financing extensions to existing facilities reduce the chance for remore
communities to get projects; use of standard designs without taking into account of specific location;
awarding contracts to non-performing contractors; not employing labor from the communities

Suggested recommendations. increase number of supervisory staff for bigger projects; make reasonable
budget for studies in dam projects; empasize priority of projects in the remote areas; ensure that designs are
in tune with the local environment; avoid awarding contracts to non-performing contractors; priority fpr
employment to be given to local labors.




                                                      - 30 -

Appendix 1. List of Workshop Participants

                           Name                                         Title
Ahmed M. Sofan                           Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Planning and International
                                         Cooperation
Hamoud Khaled Alsofi                     Minister of Civil Service and
Dr. Abdulsalam Mohamed Al Jawfi          Minister of Education
Dr. Abdulwahab Raweh                     Minister of Higher Education
AbdulKarim Al Arhabi                     Minister of Social Affairs and Labor

Hans Van Hufel                           Dutch Embassy
Martin De La                             Dutch Enbassy
Sha'if Alhamdani                         USA Embassy
Robert Hindle                            World Bank Yemen CO
Ali Khamis                               World Bank Yemen CO
Jean-Francoise Barres                    World Bank Yemen CO
Mikael Mengesha                          World Bank Yemen CO
Jamil AlAnesi                            World Bank Yemen CO



Brigadier Abdulwahid AlBukheiti          Governor of Sana'a
Ahmed Mohamed AlKahlani                  Minister
AlJalil Gajim                            Member of Parliament
Sheikh Zeid Abu Ali                      Member of Parliament
Abdulhamid Farhan                        Member of Parliament
Sultan AlBarakani                        Member of Parliament
Ahmed Ahmed AlEqari                      Member of Parliament
Ahmed AlAkwa                             Deputy of AlJawf Governor
Amin Ali Alwarafi                        Vice Governor of Ibb and head of Local Council
Abdullah AlShater                        Deputy Minster Ministry of Planning
Dr. Mutahar AlAbbasi                     Deputy Minster Ministry of Planning
Dr. Tareq Sinan Abu Lahum                Head of AlIslah Charity Society
Representatives (3 members)              Deft and dum Society
Mohsen Abdulla Bahtili                   Head of Community Water Association, Shabwah
Saleh Mubarak AlFaqeish                  Finance Officer Community Water Association Shabwah
Qasem Abdulla Abdu                       Head of Community Water Association, Monirah
Mohamed Husain Abdulla AlAhdal           Finance Officer Community Water Association Monirah
Three women                              Representative AlZahra Woman Association
Eng. Yasmin Al awadhi                    Ministry of Public Works
Contractor Yahya Hujairah                Contractor
Contractor Ahmed Dhahbash Matari         Contractor
Contractor Hasan Abdo Fatah              Contractor
Contractor Husain Jessar                 Contractor
Contractor Mansoor AlAthwari             Contractor
Contractor Mohamed ALshaibani            Contractor
Eng. Saeed AlHuraibi                     Consultant
Eng. Abdu Saeed AlShaibani               Consultant
Eng. Mohamed AlMutawakkil                Consultant
Eng. Abdurahman AlSalwwi                 Consultant
Eng. Abdulhameed AlJawiyah               Consultant
Eng. Abdulbari Albarakani                Consultant




                                         - 31 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR




                                       - 32 -

1. Assesment of Development Objectives and Design and Quality at Entry

1.1      Original Objectives:
The Second Public Works Project was an extension of the Public Works Project (Cr. 2878-YEM) with the
same overall development objective to mitigate the adverse effects of the Economic adjustment through
poverty alleviation measures targeted to the country's poor communities.

1.2      The specific objectives are:
(i) creation of jobs; (ii) provision of needed      infra-structure to improve services and environmental
conditions particularly those affecting women and children; The Project also seeks to ensure sustainability
through: (iii) community involvement in project selection, preparation andimplementation; implementation;
(iv) Development of local contracting and consulting firms;

The project's objectives are consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy CAS of 1996 which
focused on supporting stabilization, structural reforms and social protection measures, improving portfolio
implementation and sustainability of investments, and promoting sustainable natural and human resource
development. The PWP-2 objectives are considered to be a cornerstone in IDA's support to the country, in
particular social protection measures through targeting of employment opportunities to low-income areas.

Specific reference is made in the CAS to PWP-2. The project would implement relatively small labor
intensive projects in deprived areas with high poverty and would ensure sustainability through community
involvement in project selection, preparation, implementation and subsequent operation of completed works.

The design of the Project was also to play a catalytic role in attracting donor financing. In this respect the
Project was able to attract significant donor financing US$ 52.1 million amounting to more than 100% of
the Credit, and exceeded estimates projected at time of appraisal (PAD estimates US$ 40-50 million)

This accomplishment can be attributed to exhaustive efforts of the Minister of MoP&IC and Chairman of
the Steering Committee in mobilizing additional resources; the PMU's track record in efficient
implementation and transparent procedures and the World Bank's supervision mission reports
acknowledgment by rating PMU's performance as Highly Satisfactory which encouraged donors to fund
PWP activities.

The complexity of the project derives from management and supervision of contracts that have a diverse
geographic distribution in order to reach out to extreme remote and deprived areas, and quantity of
contracts to be managed at the same time. In addition, managing funds from six different donors ( IDA,
OPEC, Netherlands, USA, French, Italian) requires complex arrangements in distribution of funds,
different kind of interventions, reporting methods, financial recording and reports, replenishments, etc.

1.3      Revised Objectives:
Due to the fact that PWP-2 was an extension the original objectives were tuned and well defined and thus
did not need to be revised during course of implementation of project.

During the MTR it was noted that due to the unfavorable exchange rate of the SDR against the US dollar,
the credit amount will decrease from US$ 50.0 million at the time of appraisal to US$ 45.5 million
according to estimations at time of MTR. (At time of closing credit, the final amount was actually reduced
to US$ 46.456 million).




                                                     - 33 -

Accordingly all performance indicators were adjusted so that the project could be evaluated on a realistic
basis as follows:
  No              Description             Original Projections      Revised Projections        Actual at end of
                                                                         during MTR                project
   1  Jobs Created (person-month)        Approx. 95,000            85,313                   94,883
   2  Cost-Effective provision of        800-900 S.P completed     728-800                  827
      infrastructure
   3  Disbursement                       US$ 50.0                  US$ 45.5 (US$ 46.45 at   US$ 45.6 million
                                                                   closing of Credit)
   4  Dev. of small-scale consulting and 150 consult. Eng firms                             Contracted with
      contracting industry               and 100 contractors,                               380 Engineers
                                                                                            478 Contractors
   5  Improved Project Management        No .of PMU personnel     -                       16
                                         trained.


1.4      Critical Assumptions and Risks involved:
1.4.1    Maintaining a high labor content- through selection of sub-projects with high labor content
This assumption was met and sub-projects selected achieved the revised projections for labor content. This
risk has been minimized or eliminated through the PMU's strict compliance with selection of projects that
have high labor content in addition to improvement in monitoring and recording labor on site.

1.4.2    Low unit rates- All assumptions in the PAD were realized. In spite of the fact that significant
numbers of sub-projects were implemented in remote and extreme remote areas, low unit rates were still
maintained. This can be attributed to various factors such as:-
-        Timely payment of dues to contractors:- Once submitted and after verification payment certificates
         are processed at the MoF and CBY by PMU staff and the contractor receives his dues directly and
         within a period of one week to ten days.
-        Contractors' learn from experience:- Small scale contractors have participated in implementation of
         almost 2000 sub-projects with the PWP since its establishment, which has generated adequate
         experience for contractors to enable them to better manage works and thus maintaining low unit
         rates.
-        Competitive bidding practices:- All sub-projects are procured through competitive bidding giving
         all contractors equal opportunities and adequate time to bid. Transparent procedures for award and
         ease of access to information all contribute to build contractors trust.
-        Communities' put forward needed infrastructure for funding:- Demand for infrastructure by
         communities is much more than available funds. The PWP has been able to fulfill less than 20% of
         requested sub-projects.

1.4.3    Economy provides enough opportunities to support a growing contracting industry.
In total during 1999 to 2003, the PWP contracted with 713 contractors out of which 478 for IDA Credit
alone. Compared to Phase I, where by the year 2000, 174 contractors had been contracted. This increase
supports the assumption that the overall economy has augmented the contracting industry to a very large
extent.




                                                     - 34 -

1.5     Original Project Components:
The Project has three components:

i       Community Infra-structure Small scale civil works for construction, rehabilitation, and / or
        extension of infra-structure works.
        These will be selected from requests submitted by local communities and local government
        according to set selection criteria. They will cover sectors of health, education, urban & rural water
        supply and sanitation, storm water drainage, flood protection, road paving with an average project
        size of US$ 60,000.
ii.     Technical Assistance:- technical assistance and consultant services for project preparation
        and implementation.
iii.    Project Management:- Maintaining & further strengthening the PMU that was established for
        PWP.

Civil works component accounted for 86.3% of total project cost reflecting its relevance in meeting
project objectives of both job creation and provision of community infra-structure. The PWP reputation
established during Phase I of speed of delivery, fulfilling its commitments with communities who have
responded positively and good quality works, have all led to increase in demand for projects.
In achieving its objectives, the PMU was assisted by numerous consultants mainly for i- preparation of
designs and tender documents for non-typical projects such as water harvesting structures, ii- conducting
EIAs for environmentally sensitive projects, iii- undertaking training for PMU staff and local consultants on
various issues such as increase environmental awareness, community participation, supervision of projects
to improve quality of works...etc iv- supervision of works on site, v- auditing both financial and for quality
control of works. Experience gained by PWP staff during Phase I greatly enhanced its performance during
this phase. Systems and procedures have been further fine-tuned to improve implementation, monitoring,
financial procedures ...etc, which all contributed to the PWP's increase in its disbursement capabilities
from about US$ 1.5 to just over US$ 3.0 million.

1.5.1   Revised Components:
The DCA was amended three times for various reasons as elucidated below: .

Ist Amendment:
The DCA was amended on August 2, 1999, to allow PWP to disburse right from the beginning according to
the new procedures for disbursement based on Project Management Reports (PMR) instead of March 2000.
Accordingly Section 4.01 and 4.02 were amended. Also in the same amendment, the Authorized allocation
of the Special Account was increased from US$ 4.0 million to US$ 7.0 million.




                                                    - 35 -

2nd Amendment:
To allow schools to be operational and provide students with minimum facilities, it was agreed that PWP
will procure basic school furniture in the form of combined desks for all schools implemented. Thus on
September 22, 2000 the DCA was amended to re-allocated budgets in Schedule 1 as shown in table below
to allow procurement of School furniture. It was estimated that in total, US$ 1.78 million would be needed
out of which 1.0 million would be financed from community contributions and US$ 0.78 from the Credit.

                 Category                  Original Credit            Amended amount of the
                                          Allocated in SDR           Credit SDR
                 Civil Works                      30,200,000                  30,100,000
                 Goods & Equipment                 350,000                     350,000
                 Furniture                             0                       600,000
                 Consultants' services            2,900,000                    2,400,000
                 Operating Costs                  1,800,000                    1,800,000
                 Unallocated                       350,000                     350,000
                 Total                           35,600,000                  35,600,000


3rd Amendment:
Due to speed in delivery of services and hence disbursement, the authorized allocation, which was increased
initially from US$ 4.0 million to US$ 7.0 under amendment 1 was still not adequate. On January 30, 2001
it was again increased to US$ 10.0 million Paragraph 1  of Schedule 5.
* These figures will be finally closed before October 31,2000.

  Disbursement as of September 30,2003
       Category                          In PAD                               Actual (Latest Estimates)
                       IDA          Govt        C.P       Total      IDA           Govt      C.P       Total
  Civil Works          43.0         6.0         4.0       53.0       39.088        6.9       4.04      50.1
  Goods &              0.5          0                     0.5        0.261         0                   0.26
  Equipment
  School furniture     0            0           0         0          0.99          0         0.82      1.81
  Operating Costs      2.5          0           0         2.5        2.13          0                   2.13
  Technical            4.0          0           0         4.0        3.73          0                   3.73
  Assistance
  Total                50.0         6.0         4.0       50.0       46.431        6.8       4.86      58.03


Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the SDR V US$ since appraisal of project has led to reduction in total
value of the Credit from US 50.0 million to US$ 46.45 million. Exchange rate fluctuated on average
between 1999 to 2003 as follows: 1.4 ; 1.31; 1.26 ; 1.29: 1.36

Disbursement from all donors as of September 30, 2003:
Category            IDA Cr.      OPEC     USA        Dutch     French     Italian    Local      Total
                    3168         Fund     Grant      Grant
Civil Works        39.088        5.076    12.596     10.439    0.396      0.576      8.007 +   82.95
                                                                                     6.77 *
Goods&Eqpt         0.261         0        0.086      0.057     0          0          0         0.327
School Furniture   0.999         .032     0.583      0.042     0          0          0.728     2.386
Consultants        3.701         0.303    0.890      0.956     0.022      0.025      0         5.899
Oper Cost          2.130         0.152    0.165      0.45      0          0          0.231     2.723
Total               46.181      5.563    14.32      11.944    0.418       0.601     15.736     94.285
* Community Contributions in Kind



                                                   - 36 -

                                                                          IDA Cr.     All Donors

 Percentage of Civil Works to Total Project Cost:                          86.3 %         88%
 Percentage of Operating Cost to Total Project Cost:                        3.7 %         2.8 %
 Percentage of Consultant Services                                          6.4 %         6.3%
 Percentage of Goods, Equipment & Furniture                                 3.6 %         2.9%
                                                                           100%           100%



1.6      Quality at Entry:
The objectives of the project were consistent with the CAS of 1996. The Project was designed to achieve
the objectives in simple procedures taking into account experience gained during phase I. Risks and
assumptions were all realistic and measures taken to minimize them were appropriate.
As for compliance with Bank's safeguards policies, the project had a comprehensive environmental
management plan and took into account need for training and awareness for staff and consultants involved.

2.       Achievement of Objectives and Outputs:

2.1      Outcome / Achievement of Objectives:

        The project substantially achieved its objectives as follows:
        (i) No of work-months generated for direct Labor: Actual number of work-months generated by
        project for direct labor is 94,883 work-months at a cost of US$ 15,943,000. The objective was
        achieved at 109%;
        (ii) Investment cost: US$ 486 per work month;
        (iii) Overall Labor Content: 31.8 %; and
        (iii) No. of Beneficiaries: Female 1,739,118; Male:- 1,512,641 Total :- 3,251,759.
        (iv) Investment cost per beneficiary: US$ 15. (Investment of US$ 20 attained the highest scoring in
        the selection Criteria).

During implementation period of the Project i.e 1999 to 2003, there was a significant increase in cost of
some building materials mainly steel and cement, leading to increase in cost of civil works; while daily
wages of skilled and unskilled labor did not increase. Thus cost of labor, although above 30%, compared to
number of jobs created should have been higher. Job opportunities have been created in areas with high
Poverty whereby high levels of unemployment prevailed. These have generated income for poor families
and hence contributed to a certain extent in Poverty Reduction.

2.2      Delivery of infrastructure to improve services and environmental conditions particularly
those affecting women and children:
Original estimation in the PAD was delivery of 800-900 sub-projects for an investment of US$ 53.0
million. This was revised to 728-800 during MTR. In actual, the Project delivered 827 sub-projects, at an
investment of US$ 50.14 million (including Community Contributions in Kind) spread all over the country
especially in remote and extremely remote areas. An important criterion for selecting project sites was
targeting areas that are deprived from basic services. This resulted in more than 80% of sub-projects being
implemented in Rural Areas.
Average cost of Sub-Project was US$ 60,628.

The most deprived segment of rural communities are the women and children who suffer the most



                                                    - 37 -

from lack of services, yet bear the highest burden of providing the basic amenities of daily life.
Improving access to basic services especially health, education and water benefits the whole segment of the
community, but in particular women and children accrue highest benefits from such services. Besides the
economical advantages gained from reduced cost of traveling, increase in incomes due to increase in level of
education (long-term benefit) improved health thus better output; there are significant improvements in the
general quality of rural communities especially women and children. Selection of sub-projects took into
consideration benefits for girl. Thus higher priority was given to girls schools and water projects.

2.3      Community Participation in Sub-Project Selection, Preparation and Implementation:
Within the first phase, community participation was one of the objectives with the main purpose of
introducing the concept in IDA financed projects as well as spread awareness of its importance within
communities benefiting from services.
Positive experience gained in working closely with local communities during Phase I which resulted in
improved sustainability of completed projects led to imposing a minimum of 5% community
contribution as a Rejection Criteria for selecting projects.
During this phase the PWP further consolidated the experience, procedures and mechanisms for dealing
with communities at the various stages of the project cycle.

2.3.1    Identification Phase:
Requests for sub-projects come from communities, local NGO's and local authorities. After initial desk
screening, the PWP conducts a thorough verification process with local communities to ensure that there is
a consensus on prioritizing their needs and selection of appropriate site. This was done through meetings
and discussions directly with members of communities, election of beneficiary committees who are later
in-charge of follow-up project implementation, mobilization of contributions and O&M.

2.3.2    Preparation Phase:
As for Phase I, communities get involved in preparation of designs and documents for some of the projects
that are non-typical, in preparation of site (leveling), and in improving of road access to difficult sites,
which result in significant reduction in cost of civil works.

2.3.3    Implementation Phase:
As the PWP strictly abides by the World Bank Procurement Guidelines of tender announcement etc,
contracting with local communities for implementation is permissible in cases where local NGO's
participate in tendering process and fulfill all requirements. Numerous contracts have been awarded to
eligible contractors from beneficiary communities to implement sub-projects in their own locality.
Communities have been involved in the supervision of sub-projects on site on an informal basis and are
encouraged to report to the PMU on any shortfalls by the contractor or supervising engineers.

2.3.4    Operation & Maintenance Phase:
The PWP has deeply consolidated its practice with local communities for smooth O&M of sub-projects and
to ensure sustainability. This is especially the case for water & sanitation projects that are not handed over
to NWSA but to local communities.
A comprehensive procedure is followed whereby a committee is elected through general elections ensuring
all segments are represented including women before commencement of project. This general committee is
officially registered with the Min. of Social Affairs to give it a legal status.
Designs and technical issues are discussed with all members. A special agreement between the PWP and the
beneficiary committee, endorsed by the Local Council and Governor has been adopted, which specifies
obligations of each party. The agreement spells out in details the scope of the work to be undertaken,
community's contributions to the project, its role in facilitating implementation and obligations for


                                                      - 38 -

operation & maintenance. Signing and endorsing the agreement is pre-conditonal to commencing
implementation.
A sub-committee comprising of 4 members is elected from the general committee who are trained on
financial issues such as accounting, setting tariffs, maintaining bank account ..etc, and technical aspects for
operation & maintenance.

2.3.5    Coordination with Local Councils:
In view of the responsibilities and functions of Local Councils established by Decree No. 4 for the year
2000, which include representing communities in identifying, prioiritizing, financing, implementing and
sustaining development projects, the PWP initiated procedures in order that L.C's could start undertaking
responsibilities and functions entrusted upon them, especially in the role of representing communities. These
were approved by the Steering Committee. In brief the procedures including informing all L.C's officially
of available funds, project objectives and selection criteria. All L'C's would be aware of requests either
applications being submitted through them or by endorsing investment programs prepared by PWP.

2.4      Development of Local Contracting and Consulting Firms.
In total the PWP-2 contracted with 713 contractors out of which 478 are for IDA financed sub-projects.
Average ratio of sub-projects per contractor is 1.7 for IDA Cr. and 1.9 with all donors. This indicates that
awarding was not restricted to limited numbers but new contractors especially entrepreneurs were attracted
to participate. These contractors have received vigorous on job training for adhering to World Bank
procedures, compliance with adequate bid bonds improved quality through strict supervision and insistence
on complying with specifications and best practices. In addition, they are more acquainted with transparent
award and payment procedures.The PWP contracted with 492 supervision consultants out of which, 348
are IDA financed sub-projects. Average number of sub-projects per consultant is 2.4 for IDA Cr. and 2.9
with all other donors. This indicates that a balance has been maintained between giving opportunities to
significant number of consultants while at the same time maintaining cost benefit of awarding more than 2
sub-projects to be supervised at the same time.

3.0      Output by Components:

3.1 Community infra-structure:
In total 827 sub-projects were implemented distributed geographically among all the twenty governorates
and in almost all the 332 districts. Funds available were distributed between the governorates in accordance
with the set criteria in the PAD, i.e 50% according to population census, 30% to the CSO Poverty
indicators (Upper Poverty Line) and 20 according to remoteness and deprivation. After discussions with the
S.C it was agreed to distribute the 20% for remoteness according to the following criteria: 30% for No. of
Poor districts in each Governorate ( according to the Min. of Local Authority), 30% for surface area of the
governorate; 20% again for Population and 20% average of the three indicators.




                                                      - 39 -

3.1.1 Multi Sector distribution of Sub-Projects:

                 Sector                       No. of S.P          Investment in US$              %
                 Health                       48                  2.24                           4.9
                 Education                    524                 26.14                          57.0
                 Water                        132                 6.51                           14.3
                 Sanitation                   19                  1.9                            4.2
                 Road Paving                  34                  3.6                            7.9
                 Agriculture                  21                  1.55                           3.5
                 Public Buildings *           9                   0.54                           1.3
                 Social/Vocational Trng 25                        2.49                           5.4
                 Env. Mitigation              15                  0.68                           1.5
                 Measures
                 Total                       827                45.64                           100
                 * Note: such as public toilets, cultural center, building for fishing port, vet nary center, slaughterhouse


Again as was the case for PWP-I, number of schools was significantly high. This was due to the high
demand for schools especially for girls in rural areas. All schools have been provided with school desks
(50,746 combined desks) and administrative office furniture for 117 schools at a cost of US$ 1.8 million.
Percentage for health facilities was significantly reduced due to ensuring operation. The PWP limited its
activities to providing building for a health facility that was already operational under in informal shelter
but staff from Min. of Health payroll were already functioning and basic equipment available.
Percentage in water and water harvesting schemes increased significantly due to high demand and their
benefit to women & children.
Sanitation significantly reduced due problems with locating suitable site for treatment and disposal.
Social & vocational training increased, as commitment form concerned agencies to equip and operate was
high.

3.2      Technical Assistance:
The PWP has effectively used technical assistance in the form of local consultants for numerous activities
such as verification of projects and site visits, community mobilization, preparation of designs, conducting
training workshops, environmental assessments and supervision of sub-projects on site.

3.2.1    Support to Local Contractors and consultants:
The PWP had contracted with 713 contractors out of which 478 are for IDA financed sub-projects. In most
cases performance of contractors has been satisfactory. Diligent supervision of implementation had resulted
in satisfactory quality of works.
A few cases of poor performance were encountered. These were dealt with either by terminating contracts
and or enhancing supervision until quality is improved.

Similarly the PWP had contracted with with 492 supervision consultants out of which, 348 are IDA
financed sub-projects.
By affording opportunity to large numbers of contractors and consultants to have access to deal with
institutionalized procedures and familiarizing with World Bank Guidelines, the PWP has significantly
contributed to the development of local consultants and contractors industry. In addition, before opening
each tender contractors were explained on PWP procedures and W.B guidelines, methods preparing bids,
submission of effective bid bonds, good practice in implementation of different stages of works, quality of
material (specimen are normally demonstrated) ensuring satisfactory quality of finishings etc.
Continuous efforts in improving contractors capabilities has led to significant improvement in the


                                                            - 40 -

preparation & presentation of bids by the contractors during PWP-2. Less arithmetical errors, random
discounts and scribbling of figures were committee. Several workshops were held for consultants for
improving supervision and quality of works, environmental awareness and on community participation.

3.3     Project Management Unit:
The PMU continued to function in an efficient and cost-effective mechanisms. Its operating costs have been
maintained at low levels reaching 2.8% only including financing from all donors.
Staff have maintained high levels of motivation and diligence in project implementation and monitoring
Systems and experienced gained over the years have enabled it to increase its disbursement capacity from
US$ 1.2 million to US$ 3.0 million. The PWP has built high credibility, confidence and trust among all
stakeholders.

The PMU continued to further develop its MIS. A new version has been developed for PWP-2 and various
new programs and improvements have been included to facilitate better data management, reporting and
coordination of data with the financial system.
In addition the system was developed to enable reconciliation of disbursements in the MIS and
accounting, a requisite for PMRs,
To enable the PWP to comply with PMR requirements a Manual of Procedures for compliance was
prepared by Consultant during March 1999.

3.3.1   Assistance to other PMU's:
PWP staff have assisted a number of other projects in such matters as (i) establishing MIS and
implementing PMR disbursement procedures for Sanaa Water & Sanitation Project; (ii) establishing MIS
for Southern Governorates Rural Development Project; (iii) developing ToR's for MIS consultancy for
Rural Roads Access Improvement Project; (iv) developing Manual of Procedures for the Port City
Development Program.

3.3.2   Geographic Information System (GIS):
Due to the increased number of sub-projects implemented by the PWP and involvement of many other
projects in similar activities, the need for developing a GIS was inevitable. Availability of a GIS would
enable the PWP to distribute resources better, demonstrate its activities visually, and avoid duplication of
interventions with other projects. Information already available with the SFD and other agencies using GIS
has been added. Different applications and queries for analysis were developed. In addition, the PWP in
coordination with the World Bank Consultant and other projects are working on unifying database for the
GIS, which will eventually enable ease of exchanging information.




                                                    - 41 -

3.3.3     Coordination meetings between Projects:
Projects with similar activities started an initiative to coordinate periodically (every quarter) to discuss all
issues of common concern, actions taken to resolve problems etc. The main objective of these meetings is to
ensure full coordination of each project's implementation programs. Recent focus was on the issue of
sharing experiences on methods for coordinating with Local Councils to develop common strategy. Some
projects' experience is more positive than others.

3.3.4     Strengthened its capacity in Environmental and social mobilization aspects.
The PWP diligently took to enhancing environmental awareness of its staff and consultants working on
sub-project preparation & supervision through conducting of various workshops, and involving them in
preparation of EIA and mitigation measures. These activities were undertaken through an environmental
specialist consultant who was approved by the Bank. In addition, the PWP appointed a social mobilization
specialist who, with a team including female, undertakes formation of beneficiary committees and training
on different aspects including environmental awareness for local communities, health and hygiene,
accounting and operation and maintenance especially for water & sanitation projects.

3.3.5     Audit Reports:
Since its establishment the PWP has submitted timely audit reports. No significant discrepancies have been
reported by auditors in management and accounting procedures, including internal controls, and all other
aspects. All Audit reports are unqualified. Since its establishment four different auditors have been
appointed to audit IDA Cr. In addition, PWP activities are periodically audited by COCA.

3.3.6     Procurement of Goods and Furniture for the PMU :-
The following items were procured -Main Server ; One Laser Printer, Software systems; 9 Vehicles to
replace the old ones. In compliance with World Bank Guidelines for establishment of PMU's, all vehicles
that were replaced were officially handed over to the Ministry of Finance.

3.3.7     Bid Documents:
In compliance with the Government laws of Finance and Tendering, all revenues from selling of bid
documents including works, goods, furniture and stationery are being deposited in the MoF account at the
CBY.
So far an amount of YR 40,986,626 has been deposited.

3.4       Attracting Donor Financing:
During Phase II, the Project with support of the Minister of Planning & Int. Cooperation, Chairman of
Steering Committee has managed to attract several potential donors and has increased its portfolio from
US$ 28.0 million in 1996 to approximately US$ 111.2 million as follows: US Commodity Grant US$ 19.7
million, Dutch Grant US$ 22.0 million, French US$ 1.6, Italian US$ 0.6; beneficiaries US$ 6.3 and
Government US$7.23.

3.5       Economic rate of Return:
Economic analysis for sub-projects implemented by PWP can be broken down into two categories (i) for
those that do not have quantifiable benefits are subject to cost-effective analysis such as schools, health
facilities, stone paving community operated water schemes and (ii) those subject to cost-benefit analysis
such as water and waste water handed over to NWSA for operation.
For category (i) sub-projects selected met the main selection criteria of high cost- effectiveness represented
by :- high labor content (overall 31.8) , investment cost per work month of US$ 486 ( > US$ 500 rejection
criteria) , community participation of 10. % ( minimum required was 5% ) and investment cost per


                                                      - 42 -

beneficiary of US$ 15 ( up to US$ 20 attained highest scoring). For category (ii) Almost all water supply
projects implemented are in rural areas and community-operated. The projects have proved to have a high
IRR due to variuos reasons as follows: - (i) communities and or other agencies contribute to significant cost
of these projects (supplying pumps, pipes and digging wells). Investment undertaken by PWP is for labor
intensive components (ii) communities pay adequate tariffs per m3 that have cost recovery of investment
of 4.3 years with a relative low tariff of 23YR / m3. A detailed analysis is attached as annex 1.

Number of NWSA operated water schemes were minimum as these are restricted mainly to urban schemes.
main parameters for ensuring high IRR are maintained i.e NWSA national tariff is applied as soon as the
project is handed-over on an incremental basis (the first 5 m3 are charged at YR 175/m3 and rates increase
with consumption) . House connections are borne by beneficiaries as their contributions. These projects
have high rate of return and cost recovery is within 6 years. Analysis attached as annex 2.
For waste-water the rate of return is even higher as NWSA charges water tariff + 80% of water tariff for
waste water and 13% fixed charges. The average rate is YR 356 / m3 which yields a cost recovery of 3.9
years. Analysis attached as annex 3.

3.6      Institutional Development Impact:
The project has had significant Institutional Development impacts at various levels. At the central level,
Ministry of Finance, MoP&IC and Central Bank of Yemen have all streamlined their procedures for
processing and making payments to a minimum. (2-3 days at each). These were achieved in agreement with
the PWP. These actions have highly enhanced disbursement capacity of the PWP. Contractors and
consultants improved their capabilities in bid preparation, supervision of works, improved quality, abiding
by specifications, timely delivery etc. Improved performance of PMU staff through experience gained,
training exposure demand for efficiency.

4.       Imlementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project:

In general there were no major factors that adversely affected implementation. The Project was completed
on time and Credit was closed as per schedule on June 30, 2003.

In total the PMU advertised Thirty-eight (38) tenders for all donors out of which fourteen (14) are for IDA
Credit. In total 1425 sub-projects were contracted for a total amount of US$ 88.0 million, out of which
827 for an amount 50.14 are from IDA Cr. Regular site visits were conducted by World Bank staff to
verify varoius aspects of sub-projects implementation such as compliance with criteria in terms of (i) urgent
need i.e represent communities priority, (ii) are well targeted i.e in high poverty areas, (iii) are sustainable
and improve environmental conditions. In addition, quality of works are monitored so as to meet the
required specifications. All these aspects were recorded as highly satisfactory in Aide-memoires.
Risks encountered during Phase 쵪 such as (i) Geographic Distribution of projects being too dispersed and
in extremely remote areas posed high safety risk, (ii) dealing with numerous non-institutional contractors
and having to impose strict regulations such as forfeiting of bid and performance bonds, imposition of
liquidated damages, (iii) competitive construction industry led to low prices that could undermine quality of
works; did continue to a certain extent but with less severity due to experience gained and fine tuning of
procedures to overcome difficulties.

Responsiveness of governorates to such issues as community contributions, resolving issues, requesting
eligible projects to be financed, etc which facilitate speed of delivery of projects, varied tremendously
between governorates. This led to non-utilization of all funds allocated for some governorates (in particular
AlBeida and ALMahra), and due to decrease in credit amount from US$ 50.0 million to US$ 46.4 million,
and time available, these governorates affected more than others whereby all funds allocated were fully


                                                    - 43 -

utilized.

The Prospect of compensating these governorates within Phase III will be considered for approval and
discussion with concerned governors to take steps to improve matters.

The PWP gave particular attention to the issue of compliance with all requirements of the EMP. A detailed
procedure was developed including screening checklists, matrices for EMP ..etc.

An Environmental Consultant was appointed to undertake EIA's of all sub-projects that are
environmentally sensitive, before submission of Quarterly Investment Plans to IDA for No-Objection.
Mitigation measures for each are taken into account in sub-project design, construction and operation. Such
measures mainly addition of incinerators to health facilities, addition of boundary walls to the same
wherever economically feasible, upgrading of water collection points and improvements to outlets of some
water catchment ponds.

5.        Sustainability:

Plan for sustainability is one of rejection criteria in selecting projects. Different measures were taken for
each sector to ensure sustainability. In general coordination with all concerned agencies at the local level is
established at the very early stages of sub-project identification and preparation.

For schools: Almost all schools selected were to replace existing schools functioning in temporary shelter
or under trees. In these cases operational budget is already available. The Ministry of Education branch
office is involved in site selection and handing-over to contractor.

Health Facilities: Difficulties encountered during Phase I in ensuring operation of health facilities led to
rigorous scrutiny to ensure sustainability. This led to significant reduction of numbers of health facilities
implemented, (from 12.8 % in Phase I to 5% ) except for those that are replacing currently operational
facilities in temporary shelters where staff and equipment is already available, or rehabilitation and
extension to operational facilities. 16 Non-Operational Health Units built under PWP-1. The PWP
followed up with the Min. of Health to include them in the MoPH operational budget for the year 2000 and
2001. Eventually all were provided with staff and equipment.

Water Supply/Harvesting: Ensuring that each water project has an elected water user committee from the
beneficiaries who are trained to operate and maintain as a pre-condition to implementation, has greatly
improved sustainability of water projects Except for a few water projects all completed are operational.
Those non-operational (approx. 6 ) are pending completion of other components by either beneficiaries or
Rural water. Three of these need alternative source of water as the wells have become saline. The PWP
branch offices are rigorously following up these issues.

Sanitation: Due to problems encountered with local communities on sites for disposal and treatment
number of sanitation projects selected decreased significantly (from 8.4 % in Phase I to 4.2 %). This
problem is manifested in the Lawder Sanitation Project, whereby the PWP completed the main sewer lines
and could not commence work on the disposal sites due to disputes among landowners. The negative
environmental situation of the city, which was supposed to be solved prevailed and became a nuisance.
Eventually the Governor resolved the issue of land ownership and have undertaken to implement works.
These experiences have led the PWP to impose implementation of disposal and treatment sites as
community contribution and pre-condition to selection.



                                                     - 44 -

Vocational training / social buildings: Concerned agencies undertake operation of facility as soon as
completed. In one case Min. of vocational training has delayed in providing equipment, which are currently
under tendering.
Coordination and involving local councils in the process have acted as facilitators in ensuring
operation of completed facilities.

6.0      Bank & Borrowers' Performance

6.1      Bank's Performance:
The project's objectives are consistent with the Bank's CAS of 1996 and Government's development
strategy, the PRSP which focus on supporting stabilization, structural reforms and social protection
measures, sustainability of investments, and promoting sustainable natural and human resource
development. The PWP-2 objectives are considered to be a cornerstone in IDA's support to the country, in
particular social protection measures through targeting of employment opportunities to low-income areas.
The appraisal took in consideration lessons learned from previous phase. Realistic targets were designed in
terms of performance indicators, financial management systems and monitoring.
Supervision missions were conducted on a regular basis by staff of the World Bank. All issues of concern
raised by the PMU, were addressed promptly, decisions and necessary actions were taken that supported
and facilitated the smooth implementation of the Project. Agreed actions were thoroughly followed-up.
Support and guidance was given as and when needed to PMU staff project to establish PMR based
disbursement procedures.
The overall performance of Bank staff was Highly Satisfactory.

6.2      Government's Performance:
As for Phase I, the Borrower's performance has continued to be highly satisfactory. The MOP&IC has
continued to facilitate & streamline procedures, for prompt payment of dues (contractors payments go
directly to Min. of Finance) . Counterpart funds were made available on time. Serious efforts were taken to
facilitate successful implementation of the Project. The Min. of Finance & CBY were cooperative.
Arrangements established during Phase I with Min. of Finance and CBY to reduce lengthy procedures for
payments for counterpart funds still prevail and time taken to process payments significantly reduced and
no major bottlenecks were encountered.
The S.C role has been very constructive. Deputy Prime Minister & Min of P&IC, Chairman of the SC
played a pivotal role in mobilizing parallel finance from other donors. Meetings were held regularly,major
issues were presented and discussed and practical decisions were reached that facilitated the efficient
functioning of the PMU.

6.3      PMU Performance:
The PMU complied with all covenants in DCA and World Bank Guidelines. Progress & Audit reports
reports of the required standards have been submitted on time.         Staff performance has been highly
satisfactory, with minimum numbers and minimum operating costs.
The PMU continued to build its credibility with all stakeholders. Trust and confidence built helped in
resolving a lot of conflicts and that could have impeded progress.
Economy and efficiency have been the essence of performance.




                                                     - 45 -

7.0       Lessons Learned:
i    Government agencies can be supportive and play a positive role of facilitiator to PMU's that have
     proven to be efficient, transparent, built trust and deliver tangible results.
ii   Use of MIS and GIS improves management of projects, efficiency and administrative costs.
iii In procuring Consultants' services increasing weightage for technical and financial proposals to 80 / 20
     instead of 70 / 30 yields better quality output for supervision.
iv Transparent procedures for selection of contractors and consultants satisfies all parties concerned and
     reduces pressure and unqualified claims on the PMU.
v    Non Institutional contractors can perform satisfactorily and abide to procedures given the right set-up
     that can enforce these procedures.
vi Transparent procedures and timely payment has had a significant impact on reducing unit rates.
vii Communities have proved to be well capable of managing operation and maintenance of water supply
     projects if properly trained. This aspect should be further consolidated for all future projects.
viii Coordination with Local Councils at early stages of project cycle yields positive results in avoiding
     duplication of services provided by various implementing agencies, enhances their institutional
     development, consolidates decentralization and improves sustainability of projects.
ix To avoid major problems during implementation of sanitation projects, works should commence with
     treatment and disposal sites
x    Effective implementation can be achieved through PMU's.

8.0       Additional Information :
8.1       Participatory District Development Plans:

The PWP was requested by The Ministry of Planning and the Royal Neterlands Embassy in Sanaa, who
had inititated a new exercise for preparation of Participatory District Development Plans as a pilot
project in six governorates i.e Hajja, Shabwa, Taiz, Albeidha, AlJawf and Hadhramut. As a pilot phase two
districts were selected in each governorate in accordance with set criteria agreed upon with the local
authority.

Main objective of PDDP is to empower through capacity building, local actors (local executive agencies ,
local councils, NGO's and communities including women represantatives ) in preparing their development
plans.
Main outputs of the Pilot Project were:
1         Establishment of a methodology and process for PDDP;
2         Training of 6 staff of executive agencies at Governorate level, thirteen members at district level
(including members from local councils, community representatives and staff of executive agencies) from
each governorate.
3         Prepare 12 District Plans
4         A training Manual that will enable replication
5         Plan and estimated budget for formulating DDP's for the whole Republic.

The budget allocated was US$ 440,000 financed under the Netherlands grant to be completed over a period
of six months. The assignment was successfully completed on time and at 75% of budget allocated.

8.2 Al-Luhiya Fishing Port: The PWP was requested to undertake design of Al-Luhiya Fishing Port
through specialized consultants finances by the Netherlands Grant.

9         III Assessing Performance in Selected Thematic Areas


                                                       - 46 -

9.1      Poverty Alleviation and other social Objectives:
On the event of project completion, the PWP undertook a Socio-Economic Impact Assessment (Summary
attached as annex 4). The major outcomes indicated the following: Sub-projects implemented have been
targeted in areas of high poverty; over 80 % of projects implemented are in rural areas, where highest
poverty prevails in Yemen. Districts with highest poverty were targeted within the governorates. The
Project did not adversely affect indigenous people, nor cause involuntary resettlement. All Bank's safeguard
policies were adhered to.

Gender Concerns: In selecting any sub-project, the PWP gave highest priority to those benefiting women,
such as schools for girls, for all water projects the main beneficiaries are women & children, women
training centers for income generating activities.

Environmental objectives: The project diligently undertook environmental issues through enhancing
awareness of staff, consultants working with PWP and local communities benefiting from projects.
Screening of sub-projects led to only those with positive impacts to be implemented. Mitigation measures
were seriously implemented and included in all future designs and monitoring is still being undertaken.

Private Sector Development Objectives: The PWP contributed to private sector through capacity building
of local contractors and engineers, in many aspects of project implementation such as : tender preparation,
understanding and complying with World Bank Guidelines, complying with specifications and delivery of
good quality on time and at minimum costs.




                                                    - 47 -

- 48 -

