Report No. PID6879
Project Name                     Yemen-National Community Improvement (+)
Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Infrastructure
Project ID                       YEPE60132
Borrower                         The Government of Yemen
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD)
Project Management Unit (PMU)
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Eng. Saeed Abdo Ahmed
Project Director
Tel:    967-1- 200-415
Fax:    967-1- 200-416
Environmental Category           B
Date PID Prepared                September 14, 1998
Appraisal Date                   November 15, 1998
Projected Board Date             January 10, 1998
1. Sector Background.    Immediately after the civil war in 1994, and as a
result of dislocations and disturbances, the Government of Yemen (GOY) was
faced with large budget deficits, high inflation rates, widespread
unemployment, declining real income and growing poverty. Per capita gross
national product (GNP) fell from a level of US$550 in 1990 to only US$250 in
1995. To overcome these problems, the Government initiated a major
stabilization and structural adjustment program with the assistance of both
the International Development Association (IDA) and the International Monetary
Fund (IMF). The budget position was strengthened through tax reform and
expenditure restraint that focused on containing wage and subsidy bills.
Monetary policy was tightened to slow down the growth of money supply and
eliminate negative real interest rates. In addition, the government
complemented its reform program with a public works project so as to provide
employment opportunities and improve social conditions. IDA supported GOY's
efforts to mitigate the increasing short-term unemployment problem and to
alleviate poverty in urban and rural areas through the Public Works Project
(PWP, Credit 2878-YEM) and the Social Fund for Development Project (SFDP,
Credit 41199-YEM). The PWP had generated employment, created useful
infrastructure as well as assisted in developing institutional structure for
carrying out public works in the future.
2. The implementation of PWP is highly satisfactory, achieving most of the
objectives of the project halfway to completion date. Community participation
was encouraged through this operation and the results have demonstrated the
efficacy of greater community participation in achieving the objectives set
out for PWP. Thus PWP has provided for the first time in Yemen a consistent
development opportunity for numerous small scale contractors and consultants
on nation-wide scale, with outreach in the remote areas, generated employment,
created useful infrastructure, and an efficient institutional structure for



carrying out public works in the future.
3. The benefits of IDA's operation has reached out most effectively to the
poorest communities, in view of the demonstrated gains in improving the
quality of life of about 150,000 people (based on a sample of 46 sub-projects
surveyed for the social assessment impact report) in the urban and rural
communities, through creation of employment opportunities, provision of
drinking water, primary health care centers and enhancement in primary
education, in particular, female education. In order to mitigate the
continuous adverse impact of the economic reforms, and the likely reduction in
government budget for development activities (resulting from the drop in
government revenues caused by low world oil price), the proposed National
Community Improvement Project (NCIP) was designed.
4. Project Objectives. The project would serve as an engine for attracting
donor funds to assist the Government in its continuing strategy to mitigate
the potential adverse effects of the ongoing macroeconomic stabilization and
fiscal adjustment efforts. The overall development objective is an extension
of the PWP, which is being implemented successfully. Specifically, the
development objectives are to: (a) improve provision and maintenance of
priority urban and rural infrastructure; (b) deliver needed infrastructure
services in a cost efficient mode, improve sanitary and environmental
conditions; (c) enhance community participation in project preparation and
implementation; (d) develop local small-scale construction and consultant
business; (e) devise a mechanism in setting aside funds for operations and
maintenance to guarantee project; (f) increase employment and income of the
poor on a more consistent basis; and (g) improve coordination with Social Fund
for Development (SFD).
5. Project Description. Because of the already achieved and expected impact
on communities, the ongoing project name, PWP, was changed to the proposed
NCIP.   The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) Rehabilitation and extension of small-scale civil works (water
supply, drainage, waste, irrigation, flood protection, roads, schools and
health centers) targeting areas with above-average unemployment rates (US$107
million);
(b) Technical assistance (US$6 million) for (i) maintenance and
further strengthening of management capacity; (ii) gradual development of
well-functioning delegated project management capacity in six local areas;
(iii) a program of approaches to community involvement in operation and
maintenance of infrastructure facilities; (iv) an investment, programming,
supervision, monitoring and review component; (v) a package of services
related sub-project preparation and implementation, preparation of engineering
design and tender documents and construction supervision; (vi) strengthening
of local construction and consulting industry, including preparation for and
organization of workshops; and (vii) auditing.
(c) Project management and coordination (US$7 million).
6. Project Cost and Financing. The total project cost is currently
estimated at US$120 million. Financing would consist of an IDA credit in the
amount of US$50 million equivalent, potential co-financing of US$58 million
equivalent, and a Government share of about US$12 million equivalent
(including local government and community cost-sharing and in-kind
-2 -



contribution according to area financial capability). For co-financing, the
Government and IDA have approached Arab and Islamic sources.
7. Project Implementation. The Borrower will be the GOY. The NCIP will
consist of a number of sub-projects in different sectors and these will be
identified at the community level in cooperation with NGOs, sector ministries,
the Governor's office, and the Project Management Unit (PMU). At present
there are about 4,000 outstanding requests for financing sub-projects
equivalent to about US$200 million, awaiting PMU evaluation.
8. Under the existing practice, the PMU evaluates and prioritizes such sub-
projects, based on agreed selection criteria, as a continuous exercise, and
group them into quarterly investment programs, which are estimated to range in
cost between US$5-7 million, and to be executed within a 6 to 12-month period.
In preparing the investment programs, lessons from the execution of earlier
sub-projects and annual performance/progress reviews will be applied as
appropriate. Investment programs will be subject to review and approval by
the Steering Committee (SC) and IDA. The procedures for preparation and
implementation of sub-projects have been outlined in the Manual of Procedures
(MOP). For the proposed project, the communities and local governorates will
assist in preparing the priority investment programs.
9. The SC, chaired by the Minister of Planning and Development and composed of
six Government and three non-Government representatives is responsible for the
approval of sub-project based on established selection criteria. The existing
PMU will continue the implementation of the NCIP and will facilitate the
progressive development of delegated project management capacity.
10. Linkage to Social Fund. The PWP implemented a number of sub-projects in
health and education that appears to overlap with the mandate of SFDP.
However these sub-projects established the complementing aspect of PWP
operations and activities with the SFDP. This is demonstrated in PWP
infrastructure sub-projects, where it financed and managed the repairs and
construction of schools and health centers while the SFDP equipped and funded
the operations of these schools and health clinics by providing the education
and medical staff, janitorial service, supplies, etc. Because of the common
mandate between PWP and SFDP, NCIP would formally establish the close
relationship that developed between the two projects. It would continue to
integrate their activities, by including the SFDP Project Director as a member
of the PWP SC and vice-versa. The coordination between PWP and SFDP would
also ensure the sustainability of such sub-projects.
11. Project Sustainability. Sustainability of the project depends on the
capacity and commitment of the Government and community participation to
finance works and maintain them over time. Some aspects of the PWP are
sustainable and can be built upon. The involvement of communities in the
execution, operation, and maintenance of sub-projects, with or without NGO
support, proved to be essential under the PWP, and this is expected to
develop further under the proposed project.
12. During the project implementation, steps would be taken to ensure
project sustainability by setting aside funds for maintenance work by
counterpart agencies in various governorates. The funds for maintenance would
be contributed (either in-cash or in-kind) by the communities benefiting from
these projects. Likewise, the governorates would set aside funds for
maintenance of completed facilities that benefited from the sub-projects.
Sub-projects, when completed, would be handed over to sector ministries and/or
-3 -



communities for operation and maintenance. Long-term sustainability would
thus be subject to the capacity of these entities to maintain and operate
completed works. In the selection of sub-projects under the PWP, assessments
were made of expected future operational arrangements and the extent of
concurrent actions taken to improve operational performance. In the proposed
project, operational arrangements would also be reviewed by IDA sector staff
in the context of the development strategy being followed in the sector.
13. The achievement of the development objectives will be monitored through
performance indicators, and the findings will be reflected in quarterly
progress reports and verified in quarterly and annual audits. This process
has been established under the PWP and is functioning satisfactorily. A set
of performance indicators developed for PWP to achieve its project objectives
has been further refined for the proposed project.
14. Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement in the Country/Sector.
The following lessons were identified during the course of project
implementation and were taken into account in the design of the NCIP:
(a) Training for contractors and consultants' component were not designed
early on to enable them to access immediate training. The proposed project
would provide mainly "on-the-job training."
(b) Community participation would be promoted to ensure the maintenance
and sustainability of completed sub-projects on a long-term basis. A Social
Scientist will be added to the PMU to assist the concerned agencies in various
governorates to address the sustainability and maintenance of sub-projects.
(c) The environmental impact of sub-projects will be taken into account
in the eligibility criteria for sub-project selection.
(d) The location, impact on women and children of the social sector sub-
projects will be based on quantitative indicators, i.e., population, number of
current and potential beneficiaries of social infrastructures, etc., which
would also be used to prioritize the sub-projects, to balance the distribution
of sub-projects and to assess its effectiveness.
(e) The impact of future sub-projects on ongoing sub-projects of PWP and
Social Fund for Development Project (SFDP, Credit 41199-YEM) would be analyzed
and considered in sub-project selection to maintain the complementing aspect
of activities.
15. Poverty Category. The project will provide essential physical
infrastructure, targeting the poor rural and urban communities and
governorates. It would contribute towards improving infrastructure and social
services in poor communities.
16. Environmental Aspects.    The proposed project has been classified a
category "B" project for the purpose of Operational Directive 4.01. For
each sub-project the potential environmental impact of works to be done would
be evaluated, and mitigating actions would be specified, as needed.
17. Project Benefits. The proposed project would benefit the community in
urban and rural areas by rehabilitating existing facilities and extending
their useful life. It will also increase opportunities for the development of
small local contractors and consultants. In addition it is expected to
improve the social, economic and financial conditions of the poor people,
particularly those in the rural communities, by providing employment
opportunities. The project will also complement activities under the ongoing
SFDP operations, where civil works, buildings, roads, etc., would be provided
under the proposed project while SFDP will finance software and sustainability
- 4 -



in social sector projects. During implementation, IDA would supervise the
projects to verify specific benefits from completed sub-projects.
18. The mid-term review of the ongoing PWP has demonstrated the positive
impact of the project on women and children, who benefited from the
infrastructure and social sub-sector from the infrastructure and social sector
sub-projects. The proposed project will enhance the benefits from the
projects that are geared towards poverty alleviation among women and children.
This project would substantially contribute in reducing unemployment and
alleviating poverty, particularly in rural communities.
19. Project Risks.    The critical risks include the possible lack of
Government provision of counterpart funds on a timely fashion.     To address
this issue, criteria to measure commitment, e.g., up-front deposit of
counterpart financing will be developed. The other risks also include the
difficulty in establishing adequate project management capacity, constraints
in developing/training additional staff to manage expansion and local
government's limited ability to establish priorities and make financial
conditions. To address these issues, the project will mount a large job-
targeted/on-the-job training program and will use the community with
assistance from experienced consultants to develop capacity. Training
programs will expand to area contracting capacity. An expert on participatory
approach management will be engaged for training and developing approaches to
community participation. Consultants, the community, and NGOs will assist
local governments to prepare priority investments and financial contributions
will be required in advance of works. The eligibility of sub-projects will be
tied to priority investment programs.
20. Program Objective Category. The project supports the broad-based
private sector growth (adequate infrastructure and private sector capacity
development), strengthening the local government and community participation
(decentralization of project management), and poverty alleviation activities
through the generation of job opportunities.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Mr. Amir Al-Khafaji
Lead Operations Specialist
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)-473-2372
Fax: (202)-477-02348
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 25, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



